ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	We're going to finish the discussion of the defence budget today. I would like to propose four more interruptions for the members of the cabinet. I'd like to hear from the cabinet about the order of the cubes. I would very much like to meet with you to make the interruptions really short and to try to give short answers. We attach great importance to the proper treatment of the defence budget. It matters, as we said last Tuesday. But after this we also discuss the VWS budget. I would very much like us to be able, if possible, to start before 3 p.m. I welcome our rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a brief introduction from my side, I shall briefly mention the blocks in which I am going to answer and also indicate what the Secretary of State will do. Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the Secretary of State, I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions. I liked to see that a number of Members who spoke for the last time had actually made a speech of their own. Three years ago, together with the Secretary of State, I was given the responsibility to rebuild the Defense Department. Is it crazy, Mr. Van den Bosch, if you take that... Could that be possible? Then I can see Mr. Van den Bosch, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	We all like to see Mr. Van den Bosch. That's totally good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's right! Thank you. And I can see Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, and you too, Mrs Karabulut! For three years, together with the Secretary of State, I was given the responsibility to rebuild the Defense Department. Some of you have already spoken about this. We found an organization that, to put it this way, had been seriously hollowed out. Everywhere we went, we met people with so much passion to do their job. It touches me every time, the pride our men and women feel when they can do something for someone else. That is what military personnel are trained for: to become someone others can count on. I think that's really beautiful. I also liked the fact that some of the members of the Chamber spoke about this. I also recognize the endeavor of Hannie van Leeuwen. She was my great inspiration. I've talked about that before. "Radio Hunter Hannie," indeed. She was a former resistance fighter. Looking back on her life, she said, "I've tried to live for someone else." I really like that. As Secretary of Defense, you meet people who live by that motto all the time. I call the active military, but also veterans. But I do not want to leave the citizens who work in the Defense Department unnamed. I am now thinking of older veterans, of people like Rudi Hemmes, who stood in the throne speech last year, who fought as a young man on D-Day. Now Rudi is a wise gentleman from far in the 90s who enjoys the freedom for which he has fought and who, to this day, feels involved in Defense. It is a great pity for people like Rudi, I think, that we have not been able to celebrate our 75 years of freedom with each other, as Mr Voordewind said, I see that he has not yet arrived. That's how I spoke in May this year at the memorial in Margraten. I thought it was a very surreal moment. Normally there are thousands of people behind them digging American graves to honor the American men and women who have ultimately paid the highest price for our freedom. Now I was standing there with just a handful of people. And as you know, Veterans Day took place in a small circle. But still, that "Soldier on" of Di-rect touched me deep into the heart. I also sent a tweet about it yesterday in the context of the 2000 Summit, because it indicated so well what is happening to us. I miss, as I wanted to say as an introduction, the moments when we can all reflect on the past and show respect for our veterans. Then I think not only of those older veterans I mentioned, but also of younger veterans, such as Liesbeth, who was on TV in the documentaries of Coen Verbraak about Srebrenica, 25 years after the fall. Her courage then and the pain she feels to this day cut into my soul and I think in the soul of many of you. Stories like this have to motivate us to do better in politics, to do better together. Our soldiers need support and respect, from society, from politics, from us. They need more colleagues and good stuff, and a vision that goes beyond one cabinet. That's what I want to talk to your room about today. I'll give you a quick look back from the Defense Note first. That's my first block. Then I'll look forward to the future, with the Defence vision. That's my second block. Then I'll go into all your room's questions about the Defense vision, space, cyber and the LIMC. I shall mention them separately. The Secretary of State will then go into more detail on the results of personnel, safety, equipment and management and the plans relating to these issues. I shall start with my first subject, namely the steps we have already taken and the question of where we are now. A number of Members of your Chamber asked for this. After decades of austerity, the past few years have been a turning point. And it's really doing a lot better with the DOD. We've dealt with the most pressing problems. All the ambitions set out in the coalition agreement have been set in motion and some have been implemented. And we have more insight into the problems we have as a defense; that is also very important, I think. We've also collected things from what we encountered. What I like is that society's appreciation of Defence's competences has increased in recent times, from a 6.1 in early 2017 to a 7.0 in the first half of this year, 2020. That's actually a whole point more. In addition, you can also see that within our organisation the appreciation and confidence have increased. I'd like to report that here. In the work experience study we see that there is a significantly higher satisfaction among our people. That is good news, because the Secretary of State and I have mainly been working to restore the trust of our people in the organisation. There is, of course, a new collective agreement, and the Secretary of State will go into that further, but we have also set up, for example, an inspection security, as we had agreed. Safety is also extremely important for our people. We have also worked, as Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen said, for diversity and inclusiveness. We celebrated 75 years of women at the Department of Defense last year. A beautiful book has also been published on this subject. The share of women in Defense is increasing, from 13.9% in early 2017 to 7.939 in 2020; that is 9.822. So there are 1,900 more women. The number of female soldiers has increased from 9.5% to 10.7%, from 3.877 to 5.165. That's almost 1,300 more women. At the summit, too, I am convinced that you always have to work on the middle framework before you get to the top. We now, as you know, employ a new Deputy Commander Air Force, a female two-star general of 44 years. Beautiful. We have also indeed, Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, been very active in inclusiveness. We're at the Gay Pride, as you know. We have released a brochure Insight into transgender, to increase understanding and knowledge around transgenders. We're paying attention to Coming Out Day. We've actually done that from the beginning. You quoted the bishop. We started with cute little mats. We thought that was too small. We have ensured that a very large bishop will eventually be rolled out, although this year without the people there. As you know, the Secretary of State and I rolled out the bishop after all. The operational combat support has been strengthened so that the military can train and exercise better, be more employable in the short term and maintain missions longer. Because that is particularly important. We have invested in the Defence Memorandum from the Investment Programme in the modernisation of the armed forces with a hundred projects. The questions asked about the projects will certainly be addressed by the Secretary of State. We have made important decisions on the replacement of submarine capacity, the M-frigates, the Fennek and combat equipment. The F-35 is now pouring in and we've been able to buy additional devices. I will say a few words about this in the NATO plan. The Secretary of State will go into this further, but I think that this has really increased our capacity for action and our employability. And this year, for the first time, we have a separate budget for these material projects with our defence equipment budget fund. A single member of your Chamber spoke about this. In this connection, Mr Voordewind referred to his motion and also to Mrs Belhaj's, and rightly so. As far as I am concerned, we are really ensuring that the defence budget is more future-proof. That is my firm conviction. This was also in the coalition agreement and we have worked on it, also according to the amendment. You don't usually buy large equipment off the shelf somewhere. It always means a multi-annual investment and that means you need longer-term insight. A total of 1.7 billion is added structurally per year and an additional 1.7 billion is invested on an occasional basis up to 2024. That extra money, as you know, comes from the national plan for NATO that we have created. There are provisions for intelligence, digital security and the military police. Of course, there has also been added this year for the fight against covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	I see a question from Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Indeed, 45 billion has been reserved, committed, for weapons for the next 15 years. If it is up to this minister, she would like to reserve 13 to 17 billion extra a year for armaments. Where does the Minister come up with the idea that more armament will lead to more security?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	This is the question that comes with the Defense Vision block. That's the next block. It is not the case, by the way, that we say in our Defence vision that we want to invest this 17 billion entirely in weapons, let me add. There's no way that's in our defense vision. But I think that we are certainly safer working with each other on a credible deterrent, if we have good material and if we can protect our own territory. I'm just disagreeing with you on that point. Our people need the best stuff. We have also indicated the choices for this. I'll come back to that later. We just can't right now. We're not well enough tailored to our own task. So that's gotta be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'm not talking about the people. Because if you buy guns, they have to be used. Then it is indeed the women and men who are sent there. How they're taken care of after that is verse two. We'll talk about that later. My question was very specific. Where does the Minister base the argument that more armament will lead to more security? It's not like I'm gonna find something and the Minister's gonna find something else. I'm putting facts on the table. I would point out to the Minister that the opposite has happened over the past few decades. We have participated in permanent warfare under the leadership of NATO. This has led to chaos in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya and millions of refugees. Then we all had discussions here about refugees. There has been investment in a new Cold War with Russia by expanding NATO. All this has led to even more insecurity and even more armament. 1,900 billion! We're on that release now. And then this minister wants to be carried away by people who think war and even more armament will bring security when the opposite turns out to be true? It's crazy. This minister should be committed to releasing the 2% standard, de-escalation and less weapons rather than more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	I base myself on the threats that exist in the world. We need to be able to defend ourselves against the threats we see, and we can't do that right now. I'll say a little more about the Defence Vision later, because it's not just about weapons at all, but we need to be able to defend ourselves against the threats we're seeing. We are members of an alliance, on which we have been able to build for more than 70 years and which has ultimately ensured security in this country and this continent. So I really disagree fundamentally with Mrs Karabulut. No one in this Chamber is for war, but we do have to defend ourselves against the threats that exist. What we have done, including in Iraq and Syria, is to ensure that terrorists do not come here and ultimately serve our security. So I'm just fundamentally different from Mrs Karabulut and I don't think we're getting together either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	A very brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	Locking up. What the minister puts his head in the sand and a lot of parties here is that because of this permanent warfare that has nothing to do with defense but which is purely about geopolitical power and influence, there has just been more terrorism, more terrorist attacks, more refugees there and here. This is just a dead end. And then, under the guise of a pandemic in which hunger and inequality grow, this minister wants to put even more billions of Dutch people into that forever confused. We do not want that, and the Americans do not want it. It's short-sighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	That was a short word, thank you very much. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	It remains that I really disagree. If you talk to people in Afghanistan, for example, no matter what I've done, like with three Afghan female soldiers and you've been there yourself, you'll hear that we're helping them to get to a stable and safe country and that there's only a future for their children if there's security. Safety is a prerequisite for the rule of law, for doing things, for being able to do vaccinations at all, or to get rid of hunger. So I remain fundamentally different from Mrs Karabulut, at least on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	No, we're not going to shout things out of the microphone, Mrs Karabulut, because then the Minister will not be able to concentrate on what she wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	I want to move on to the point that looking at what we have written in the Defence Note, we can be proud of what we have done and what we have put down. This year was of course a very different year than we had thought, the year in which we would celebrate the peak of 75 years of liberation. And then there are other sad aspects, such as the death of Christine and Erwin this summer due to a helicopter accident near Aruba. The President of your Chamber also attended Christine and Erwin's return. I liked the presence of the representatives of the people. Something like this intervenes deeply in the organization. We have also, of course, discussed with your Chamber the tragedy in Hawija. We have to be open and honest about this. We've been working on transparency for the past year. A new procedure has been agreed with the House of Representatives on how we provide information and when there may be civilian casualties to regret as a result of our actions. I think that is an important step. In the area of transparency the necessary has happened, but, honestly, there is still more to be done. What is clear is that we need to be a more transparent organisation. That is why the design principle has been included in the Defence Vision, so that we can continue to steer it ambitiously. Then my second point, the Defence Vision. We see that much remains to be done. If you ask me if the organization is ready for the future, the answer is simply no. We have taken a first step in this period. We have made significant concrete improvements from the Defence Note, but there are still many problems to be solved. We have just talked about the global deterioration and complexity of the security situation. That's what we need the DOD to do. With the current organization and state of the organisation, we are simply not adequately equipped for future threats. To take the next steps, we have presented the Defence Vision 2035. We have made this vision, I say, together with the whole organisation, including all operational commanders. And other ministries too, Mrs Belhaj's question is very much involved. It's the vision of the entire cabinet. It's a new profile for our defense organization. That's what we're working on right now. Regardless of the budget, we have to work that way. We're gonna use the Defense Vision to choose that profile. We are making fundamentally tough and new choices, for example, to work in an extensive way, to specialise, to strengthen Europe. These are the choices of the cabinet that have also been carried out, I say to Mr Van den Bosch, Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mrs Belhaj and Mr Kerstens, who asked for them. I therefore feel supported by Mrs Belhaj's words, which emphasise the importance of specialisation and European cooperation as a step in that direction. I also know, of course, the own-initiative paper she has written on this subject. I'd like to tell you that we can't choose between threats; they're all there. That's how we built it. Together with our partners, we must be able to do this, and we must all contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. The Defence vision 2035 is about the truth and the what, not about the what. That's why it's a vision. This vision will need to be further developed in a next Defence Note, for example in strategic, operational concepts and in policy. These are the next steps, I say in response to Mr Stoffer, who asked about the implementation. The next Cabinets will therefore have to consider these next steps. The Defence vision, to our firm conviction, offers a real basis for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. Just in response to the remark that the intention is to address all these threats. It would indeed be a bit of a stranger to say: a few we ignore and a few we choose. But, of course, you have to prioritize in the end. Especially with the state that has the current army, it is not realistic to say: we have invented ten and with the Dutch armed forces we are going to bet on all ten. That is why I asked: what fits and what can the Dutch armed forces do? Just be honest about that, without saying you don't take those other threats seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	If that is the background to Mrs Belhaj's question, then the Dutch armed forces are not at all tailored to all the threats there. As you know, we must always do so in cooperation with NATO or in a European context. We need to work together. Our answer is that we are simply not tailored to our constitutional task alone. I will also come to your specific question about the strategic compass, because we are also looking in Europe at threats that we are now seeing at European level. That's the first thing we do, that threat analysis in Europe. As far as I am concerned, from this threat, we are looking for the Netherlands from the current base where we can best specialise and what is best for the Dutch task. Because it's obvious that we can't do everything. We can't do that now, and we can't do that in 2035. So we need to be tailored to those threats together. And we choose the profile of information-driven, high-tech, reliable and from small to large, independent performance. I would also like to say that we have also calculated for the first time in the Defence Vision 2035. We have, of course, seen the criticism of this in terms of what it costs if we did everything right and set it up. And even then, it's just a question of whether we're tailored to everything. Even then, we have to choose. That is ready for whoever will be a next cabinet, but it is a real gain that we have never been so transparent about what comes to us before, what the problems are, where the needs lie and that costs money. What that costs, we have indicated in cubes in your direction. That is a step that the Chamber has asked us to take in recent years: show it and work it out in long lines. Regardless of the budget, the whole organization believes that we need to work in the new way. Mr. Chairman. As I said just now in response to a point by Mrs Karabulut, the value of security should not be underestimated as far as I am concerned. Security is a prerequisite for freedom, prosperity and democracy. Safety must therefore also be worth more to us. I think it is very important to have the political and social debate on this issue. At the presentation of the Defence Vision, I also said something about this. In this sense, I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. I did read your defense vision. We know from our own experience how much work it is to write such a piece and we still have an entire organization. What I saw was that we signal the same developments in the world around us. We both note that, in the present state, we are not up to these threats. That was the little debate we just had. But we provide different solutions to the threat and problem analysis. What we at least share is that attention to the cyber domain is very important. We both agree on the importance of a sound basis. That is what I want to say here. I've looked at it again in your view. That is extremely important, we both think. Mr. Chairman. Defense needs a long-term political commitment. This is particularly true in the direction of the organisation, but also, of course, in the budget, a point which Mr Stoffer has repeatedly raised. Defence needs this not only to carry out the changes, but also to cooperate with our allies within NATO and our partners in Europe. NATO was clear in the report on the Netherlands, which I also sent to your Chamber: it is not good enough. I saw it go public yesterday. The Netherlands has taken good steps, but more is needed. It is good that this is transparent. Our defense vision is on the verge of that. Our current contribution to our common security in money, commitment and capacity is simply not enough. We are the fifth economy in the European Union and yet we are constantly dangling at the bottom of the list of defence expenditures within NATO. With those who said that on Tuesday, I also think that a new American president will not let go of the 2% standard, and rightly so. We are a prosperous country and we have to pay our contribution for a membership that has protected us for 70 years. For me, it is very important that we have a debate in society about what security is worth to us. Mr President, I will be in a moment to answer the questions I am going to answer. This was my second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	I was a little triggered when the Minister said that the Netherlands is dangling a bit at the bottom of the list. I remember a year ago, after two years of whining, we were given an overview of the exact gross amounts that all those NATO Member States contribute to the armed forces. I think it came out that the Netherlands was doing very well. If you spend very little on the military and have a low gross national product, you can be at the top, like Greece. Then you can stand at three or four. Makes it look like you're doing great. In future, the Minister would also like to take account of the fact that these are hard gross amounts and not just the percentage, which would indicate that the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom. That's just not true, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	As a percentage it is certainly true, but I agree with Mrs Belhaj. I bring in everything we spend cash in. That's our lifeboat in the NATO meetings. We've certainly invested a lot. I have just mentioned the 1.7 billion in structural terms and the 1.7 billion in NATO. But we just made a deal. I also agreed with you on Tuesday that this is not only because it is 2% a dogma. Among those 2% of all these countries together, capacities have been calculated. Those capabilities were calculated at some point in 2014 and the capabilities below are what we need to defend ourselves. That's the idea. So it's not necessarily the percentage. However, for each country this percentage is relatively similar to GDP. I myself find it strange for the fifth economy of Europe that we are dangling at the bottom of the lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Minister states that the Defence Vision is clear about the threats that are coming to us, but that is, of course, not true at all. The greatest threat, which is clear to all, is the threat of Islam and of Islamic terrorist attacks. We've seen that everywhere. There's hardly any talk about that in that defense vision. So my question is why the greatest danger facing us as a Dutch, western society is simply being completely muffled away. Then the Defense Vision is already out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	I just don't agree that this has been muffled away. It is indeed an important threat and it has been cited. You asked a specific question on this, so I wanted to answer it in the specific questions, but I would like to do it now. This has absolutely not been muffled away. It's a realistic threat. I remember that you were interrupted by Mr Van Helvert with texts from the Defence Vision in which this was cited. But you're asking now, and I'm saying it wasn't muffled away at all. We are also doing our work in the war against ISIS now, specifically to prevent those people from coming here. And we are also committed to this with DSI for the Dutch tasks you mentioned. When I look at what you have asked about this, you think that tackling terrorism is actually the responsibility of the defence department. Mrs Karabulut then referred to war as a last resort. The people of Defense can and can indeed use force as one of the few in our country. Of course we prefer to avoid conflicts, I say in the direction of Mrs Karabulut, but if we have to, then we fight to win, precisely to ensure that peace is restored. It is about defending ourselves and our own values; I agreed with you on that. But you can't say terrorism is the only threat. You just can't say that. Our people are committed to many different tasks on a daily basis. They're committed to the security of vital objects with the military police, as you said. As a corps manager, I would also like to thank you for the compliments you have given for what the Marechaussee is doing. But that's not the only job. Terrorism is one of the threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	I allowed this somewhat long answer, because it was also a question in your first term, Mr. Fritsma. You had made an important point of this in your first term. But I'm going to try again to shorten the interruptions a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u25	Right, Mr. Chairman, that was an important point. This is not the only point, but it is of course a question of balance. As I said in my first term, the word 'Islamic' is not even mentioned, nor is the term 'Islamic terrorism'. We have had a very concrete attack on our own territory, namely the tram attack in Utrecht. Defending our own territory is the core task of Defense. It's weird that that's just left unnamed while we're reading whole pages about fake news, climate change and ageing. Surely the Minister has to acknowledge that the balance will be completely lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u26	I simply disagree with Mr Fritsma. I think it's addressed. The DSI was also involved in the attack, as you call it, in Utrecht. By the way, the DSI consists of two thirds of military personnel, as you are no doubt aware, and they have been worse there. They do that in more places. I agree that we must also play our role in the Netherlands, as support and assistance for civil authority. There's no misunderstanding about that. This includes threats such as terrorism and, as far as I am concerned, extremism and its prevention. That is why the jihadist organizations and the fight against ISIS are in the Defence Vision. We certainly need to be tailored to examples such as the attacks in Europe that Mr Fritsma referred to. But that's not the only thing. There are more threats. Finally, let me give you another example on this point. Last Monday, in NATO, the British called for the presence of Russian warships in their waters and asked what a possible answer should be. Here too we are talking about collective security, I say in the direction of Mr Fritsma. So we sometimes have to act together, especially in order to avoid the threat of the Russians in the English exclusive economic zone. They then appeal to us and we must have an answer together with the partners to all the threats. But this really isn't the only one, and it can never be the only one, as far as we're concerned. Then I'm gonna go to the questions I'm gonna answer. I now consider the latter question to be answered, so I have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u27	Absolutely. I see Mr Voordewind and Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u28	Okay. Otherwise, I would like to mention the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u29	You've all asked a lot of questions as MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u30	I'm gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u31	Is it perhaps an idea that the Minister should answer the questions and that, if those questions are not answered adequately, I should give you room for an interruption? I hear that's agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u32	Then I will start with the questions about the extra investment and the specialization of the Defence Vision, because they are in line with that. Then I'll go into the questions about space, the tasks of Defense, the Cyber Command and the LIMC. My third comment concerns the action in Afghanistan, the Sorgblader Committee and the provision of information on ongoing missions. Fourthly, international cooperation and the strategic compass will be discussed, which I have just mentioned to Mrs Belhaj. As a fifth, I'm handling the veterans' policy. Then I have a single loose question, including the SG designation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u33	I have a question for my image: are the nuclear weapons going to be the last ones?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u34	Sure. I think they're on the separate questions, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u35	We're gonna go see if there are any questions that haven't been answered. Mr Voordewind, does that mean your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u36	I had a broader question about the functioning of NATO and our participation in it. I didn't see it one-two-three again. Maybe it fits here, because we've just had a wider block at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u37	Okay. The Minister. More clarification about NATO is the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u38	No. Then may I ask a question? Then perhaps this one will be clear to the Minister. Otherwise, it's gonna stay wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u40	We have just discussed the allianceal nature of NATO, our norms and values, etc., which we stand for. How does the Minister put it in the light of Turkey's actions when it comes to Nagorno-Karabakh, Greece, etc.? To what extent does such a Turkey fit in with this? How does Article 5 of the NATO Treaty fit in with Turkey's current position and aggressive attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u41	I had taken him not so much as a question, but rather as a consideration that Mr Voordewind had. I have heard your specific question about Nagorno-Karabakh; I will answer it later. When it comes to Turkey, it is quite complicated. You mentioned a few examples, but we have of course also recently seen the relationship between Turkey and Greece, which was difficult and complicated. The relationship between Turkey and Greece over Cyprus is also difficult when you look at what is happening there. At the request of your Chamber, I raised Articles 4 and 5 in the NATO meeting. In my view, there was also a motion by Mr Van Helvert on this, which was perhaps broadly supported; I do not know. An attack on one is indeed an attack on all. That's what Article 5 says. How are you supposed to see that? If Turkey acts aggressively, as has happened in Syria, for example, in part, when we talked about that buffer zone, and Turkey is still an ally in the anti-ISIS coalition, then it becomes very complicated. At your request, of course, I discussed this in detail with the Turkish colleague at the NATO meeting, including in the anti-ISIS coalition. I believe that I once told you in an AO that the Turkish colleague's answer is that he would only speak up, but say the same thing. We have no mechanisms in NATO other than to engage in dialogue. That's what we should do. We have to keep doing that. This has happened in recent meetings. As you know, there is a NATO evaluation committee. This one isn't exactly called that, but there's something like that at work. For the Netherlands Herna Verhagen participates in this. This is one of the subjects that we have put forward as the Netherlands: what else do you have to do with each other? We are members of the alliance, all of us. We need to be able to trust each other, but we also see some things that are not good at all, for example the purchase of Russian weapons by Turkey. We're just having the conversation right now. Mr Voordewind knows that too. We have nothing more than talking about it openly, taking-and-shaming. That's what we do. On the basis of this, we are trying to make another step forward. However, you know as well as I do how important it is that Turkey, there at the border, is a NATO partner. We have seen this recently around the agreements on refugees and so on. But that's not my subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u42	Fortunately, of course, we still have the European Union, where we are trying to reach an arms embargo. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. As far as NATO is concerned, the Minister says: we are going to see what we could possibly do with the evaluation committee. I would like to give the Minister the question of whether there is a discussion about this. You can't throw them out of NATO, but there might be a discussion about a possible suspension of Article 5. Article 5 could be suspended when a member behaves so aggressively that it could be attacked again, for example by Russia. Are we still obliged to provide defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u43	At the moment, that is the case. At the request of Mr Voordewind and others from your Chamber, I brought up this discussion in the NATO Defence ministerial, as you know. That was the question: what else is there? I have asked the Secretary-General and colleagues to think about this, also in anticipation of what is now coming out of the evaluation. You discussed the issue of the arms embargo in the State Department budget. Mr Blok has said that he is committed to this, so I will support that wherever I can. There is no misunderstanding about that. Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess I'll just answer the questions a little bit less. I'll start with the extra investments. Those were the questions put by Mr Van den Bosch, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Stoffer and Mrs Karabulut. Those questions concerned several aspects, but the Netherlands remains committed to the will to aim for 2% of Defence spending. I've just indicated what we've invested now. I see just as a number of members of your Chamber Mr Van den Bosch started to do so.... the European NATO average as a realistic perspective for the next cabinet to make a relevant contribution as one of the major economies of Europe to protecting what is dear to us. I'm gonna keep liking that. Defence expenditure is expected to reach 1.48% of GDP by 2021. We have said that net expenditure is still among the lowest. There were questions about the European average growing in 2024. In turn, EUR 4 billion would have to be added in structural terms. My answer to Mr Van den Bosch is as follows. I do believe that it is now necessary to have the political and social debate on what security is really worth to us and on what risks we are prepared to take. You mentioned that in your speech, and I think that is a good point of view. As far as I am concerned, if we want to work on a high-tech military force and be a reliable partner, we need to follow up on the Defence vision that lies ahead. I would like to say to Mr Stoffer that the NATO standard applies to the total defence expenditure, to the breadth and therefore not only to the expenditure covered by the material budget fund. It is clear that I do not agree with Mrs Karabulut, who argues for less money for the defence industry. Mr. Chairman. In the second block I come to the questions about specialisation, space tasks and the SARC command. First of all, I will answer Mr Voordewind's question, which is more in line with NATO. I do not see the question here anymore, but NATO does see that we are lagging behind. What about the fully-fledged Mechanised Brigade, then, was Mr Voordewind's question. As you know, we've invested extra in the Defense Department. In 2019, we received additional money for our NATO plan in the Spring Note. In our NATO plan, we have already chosen the issues that we continue to pursue in the Defence Vision for high-tech and specialist action. We have therefore put the F-35s, the SOF, the Special Forces, and information-driven actions at the centre. That means we haven't filled out firepower land yet. That's certainly true, but it just couldn't. Next Cabinets will have to consider that. I come to the questions on specialization by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Belhaj. We are now going to make an active commitment to greater specialisation within NATO and the EU. This includes strengthening and expanding cooperation. Mr Van den Bosch asked for this too. Specialization eventually just starts with more collaboration with each other. So we are going to focus on the added value of all partners and countries. In the end, that also means that we are not going to do things anymore, because they are being taken over by others. That is also in our view. In our view, we have also identified what we are strong in. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen saw the same thing. I thought Mr Van den Bosch said the same thing. That is our starting point. Of course, we will have to do so in consultation with our partners. We cannot unilaterally decide on this. After all, we all must still be able to deal with the threats we were just talking about and to make a safe effort. That means working together. The sovereignty of the Netherlands also continues to play a role in commitment, so we cannot go ice in one night. If partnerships do not prove to be strong enough, we will, in our view, make ourselves too vulnerable and our security will be at stake. This means building on the current basis, specialising and holding the debate in the European Union and NATO. We have already begun to do so. We always ensure that we share risks and costs. That is also the nature of an alliance. We also ensure that our roles as first responder and last line of defence, which we need here, are not affected. We will therefore focus on further partnerships and cooperation. The examples have already been mentioned: the German-Dutch tank unit, the German-Dutch army corps and the Belgian-Dutch cooperation. Mr Van den Bosch's question on space strategy: when will it be published? I know that your group has asked for this on a number of occasions, but I do not know if it was you. The defence space strategy will be presented to the Chamber before the summer of 2021, so next year, so I'm afraid we're not going to talk about it anymore. The risks in space are indeed increasing. Take, for example, countries that destroy satellites. That's a real threat. This also causes flying debris to disrupt communication and navigation systems from other countries. Our SMART-L Multi Mission radar is a unique technological capacity. By increasing our perception of what is happening in space, one could say the space situational awareness....................................................................................................................................................................................... We use civil knowledge and expertise very emphatically in the military use of space and vice versa. Think, for example, of positional clauses. In that context, Defence within the EU participates in PESCO projects.I continue to find "PESCO projects" a horrible word, such as European Space Situational Awareness and Timely Warning and Interception with Space-based Theater surveillance. So we are really active in doing something about it. You know that we have to make choices within the current budget. We do that every day. Not everything can happen. But we're doing this very seriously. Then there is Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen's question about a cyber force command. There is a close connection between information security, connection security and cyber security. That actually makes it undesirable to take one element out of this and hang it somewhere else, we think. We must continue to develop cyber capacity. That is one of the pillars of the Defence vision 2035 and, by the way, of your vision. Due to different legal powers and operational targets, it is not just possible to combine capabilities in the cyber domain. Moreover, the cyber domain is often only one aspect of the work. This is the case, for example, with the STUDY. A combination of cyber units in a separate military unit, as you suggest, is therefore not obvious. It is also very complicated given the different legal powers. In our view, it does not bring enough benefits. The cyber domain is closely linked to other domains in which Defense operates. That's why every Department of Defense has, so to speak, more and more interfaces with cyber. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions by Mrs Belhaj, Mr Öztürk and Mrs Karabulut about LIMC. Questions have been asked about the experimental Land Information Manoeuvre Centre. I informed you in writing about the LIMC on Friday 27 November. As we wrote in the new Defence Vision, but also in the 2018 Defence Note, more information needs to be sent to Defence. This involves modern IT and large amounts of information collection and processing. This is crucial for any military operation, for the protection of our own people and for the protection of the population in the area in which the armed forces operate. The introduction of modern IT and working with it do not go overnight, as you will understand. It is a process of experimenting, learning and repeating lessons. In view of the desired further development in the field of information-driven action, Defence set up the pilot LIMC in March. The main purpose of the LIMC is to make this clear for the first and second main tasks of Defence. For that, we need to be able to practice and train. In doing so, the GDPR is the applicable framework. However, the experimental LIMC could carry out activities under and for the benefit of civil authority where appropriate. Then you're gonna need a call for backup. In my letter I informed you that no request for assistance has been made by civil authorities since the establishment of the pilot LIMC. The powers for a specific commitment therefore depend on the basis of the commitment. Therefore, the explanation is what long it listens very closely to what information has been collected and what information is being processed. The independent data protection officer is now conducting an investigation into compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation by the LIMC. The results are important to assess the activities of the experimental LIMC. If the report is available, I will send it to your Chamber with my assessment. That's what I wrote. I can deal with the questions raised by the Court in the first place. I would like to make that clear to you. In my view, it is necessary that we consider all questions and answers about the experimental LIMC in conjunction. We can then have a debate on this with each other. Otherwise, there is a real risk that we will be driving the investigation of the independent official. In the meantime, I have stopped the activities of the LIMC with regard to the collection and analysis of information in the Netherlands, so nothing is happening in that area for the time being. The LIMC simply contributes to the investigation. I can also assure you, because I heard questions about this, that the Data Protection Officer is independent. I say this in the direction of Mr Öztürk, whom I see already. This official is the legal independent internal controller of Defence in the field of data protection. These powers have also been published in the Official Journal. Mr. Chairman. That's what I think I can say about the LIMC.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u44	Fine. There are three word messages on this point. Mr Öztürk was there a little earlier, so I would rather give him the floor. He's coming from farther. He speaks on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u45	What I hear here is that our citizens have been used as guinea pigs without the knowledge of the Chamber and the Chambers Committee. My question is whether it is going to happen more often that, for the sake of a particular strategy, citizens are exposed to this type of practice. With the word LIMC I think: why an English name? We're in the Netherlands, aren't we? Why can't we just choose a Dutch name for this kind of thing? Or is this a project, and now it comes from other superpowers that are being carried out in the Netherlands, experimenting with it and using our citizens as guinea pigs to carry out a big plan in the world with large countries? I want some assurance that our citizens will not be used as guinea pigs for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr Öztürk has heard something I did not say. I said we're investigating what happened. We are looking at whether it has all been done within the framework of legislation and regulations. I will answer the questions in conjunction. I also think that Mr Öztürk has a real interest in this. Right now, it's just quiet. Why does it have an English name: Land Information Manoeuvre Centre? There are a lot of parts with English names, tragically I also find with the Defence Department, because it always fits with international names. That's all it is. There's no other international side behind that. As I explained to you, this is really something that has been set up from the Netherlands, from the information-driven side and which also explicitly belongs to the first and second main task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u47	Can the Minister assure us that this sort of thing doesn't just happen? The crazy thing about parliamentary membership is that in the morning you'll be informed by the press about what happened, what decisions the cabinet has made behind our backs. That's exactly what I'm worried about. Can we be assured that this sort of thing will not happen until we have discussed it here in the Chamber and the cabinet has informed the Chamber? Otherwise we will have an information deficit again and we will be informed afterwards, after investigations. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u48	I have already indicated to you that I will carefully list all these questions, that it has been stopped and that I will inform your Chamber about them once the investigation has been completed. I believe Mrs Belhaj is still early when. I really hope it will be at the beginning of January so that we can have a debate on it with each other. Then we can also discuss the points you are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, D66. No, GroenLinks. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u50	Well, Mr. President, you're getting all worked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u51	No, but because Mrs. Belhaj was standing there. No, you're from GroenLinks. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u52	I'm green, but red. Those are still the colors of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Karabulut were also always confused during the legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u54	It's gonna be okay. We'll get through this together. I have a question about the Cyber Force Command, which the Minister went into. That's why I was a little confused by the order. I just heard you. I was wondering what your future perspective is. We now have forces in all areas of warfare, land, sea and air, and we even talk about space. But you don't actually see it as a future perspective to create a command for the cyber domain. I'm a little surprised. Then how do you see that future perspective? How are we going to ensure that the Netherlands is defended in a coherent manner and that this is not, therefore, perhaps the little discussion that you just had, the little debate here, exemplary for that, every part should go on independently with that cyber domain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u55	We already have a Defence Cyber Commando, as Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen may know. Look, cyber is an aspect that really comes up in all parts. That's the idea. When it comes to the future perspective, for us, cyber is so intertwined with all areas that there is specialist attention everywhere. As I said, we do have a Defense Cyber Commando. I do not know if you were in that debate, but in the context of the NATO contribution, we have already offered cyber-soldiers, because we have them. That is where we always have the discussion about mandate in progress. Our perspective is that we will have to do much more in cyber and that we will therefore also have to invest much more in it, such as in information-driven action. But it can never be combined in its entirety, because it actually falls within all domains.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u56	Then how does the Minister see the controllability and the way in which we can discuss this with each other? Are we going to talk about the Air Force doing something in cyber, and about the Navy doing something in cyber and being supported by cyber, and the attack on our Afsluitdijk, which has been defended by...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u57	Sometimes not by us. Of course, this is a much broader question, because cyber is part of JenV's budget when it comes to the cyber strategy, as you may know, and it is also in other budgets, for which we need to focus attention. As you know, there are also operations that happen under the Wiv, so it's a much broader question. But when we talk about this in the Chamber, of course we can bring these things together, in the sense that we talk about it in its entirety. There is no misunderstanding about that in itself. We usually do that, by the way. So we're not going to talk about separate parts of Air Force and Army. We talk in its entirety about what we see and what we do. I'll think about how we can do that even better. I'd like to think about that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u58	Short closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u59	I'll take that as a good handshake. Let us at least see how that develops. Perhaps in the future, this can continue to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you. Mrs Belhaj, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u61	Still, back to the previous point, the LIMC. I understand the Minister's going to look into things further. But I hope that some of the questions I have asked will really be answered today. There is only one article, Article 51, on the basis of which the armed forces may decide to provide support. That must then be done from a security region, because it is a decision. But that didn't happen. You wrote down in your letter "That's where I was triggered by the fact that the law is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u63	The law is not a starting point, but the framework within which you must remain. So I thought the Minister could give an answer on what legal basis there was to do this? Why was it chosen to involve political parties from GroenLinks here in the PVV in such analyses? Why do you decide to have someone who works within the armed forces themselves doing research and dealing with that data? On a number of questions, I thought: you really need to answer them now. Because I find it really shocking that the armed forces have been actively engaged and involved political parties without you knowing, or perhaps even knowing, in order to provide assistance. That's a big deal!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u64	That's a lot of different questions, which we just really need to take a look at. In the letter I specifically indicated that I have stopped it for the Netherlands. In my explanatory statement I mentioned that the LIMC is mainly intended for the first and second main tasks. It can always operate in that. You have to be able to practice and train for that. I have explained about collecting and processing business in the Netherlands. First of all, I want to know for sure, as the letter says, whether the GDPR has worked within the GDPR, because the GDPR is just the framework for that. That's what's in the Netherlands, so we need to stay inside. And that official is just completely independent. I have already answered that in the direction of Mr Öztürk. This has been published in the Official Journal. He's an independent official. He'll have to do independent research. That's an independent internal supervisor. Its powers are also published in the Official Journal. We'll just have to wait and see. Then I will talk to you about whether or not we have worked within the framework of the GDPR, because we do not know that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u65	The military has tasks that are laid down by law. One of these is indeed relevant: to support the government in law enforcement, disaster response and humanitarian aid, both nationally and internationally. But that only applies if an explicit request has been made by aid organisations with the question of whether or not they want to commit themselves. I don't think that's what happened right now. I think it is serious that a military force itself actively decides to analyse the corona crisis in the Netherlands and analyse political parties, and that you indicate here: I am going to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u66	No, I'm not saying that. 'Cause I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u67	That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u68	I agree that, if it were, it wouldn't be possible, but we don't know that right now. That's what we need to find out. I did...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u69	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u70	I'll let the minister finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u71	That's what I indicated in my letter. I have indicated that the GDPR is the framework. That's the framework within which surgery needs to be performed. The introduction law GDPR has a shift clause for the first and second main tasks. As part of the first and second main tasks, our military can do this work. But the question is whether what they have done in the Netherlands is within the GDPR. You are absolutely right that you should not simply collect and analyse information. That's what I wrote in the letter. We need to see if what happened is true. Because I'm not sure... That's just it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u73	Since I'm not sure, and neither are you, we'll have to wait for that investigation first. I do not rule on the basis of the newspaper, but on the basis of the facts. If those facts are not correct and the GDPR official has indicated that, I will write that to your Chamber as soon as possible, because I fully agree with you that we should have the debate on this, with each other in this Chamber. That's what we're now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u75	So I do answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. I give Mrs Belhaj the opportunity to say a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u77	I'm not just basing myself on what's in the paper. I base myself on the legally established mandates the armed forces have. You refer to the GDPR every time, but I'll start at the base. To what extent does a law say that, without anyone asking for it, without Article 51 and without discussion in the security regions, the armed forces may carry out independent analyses of the corona crisis, actively present ideas, impose themselves and say: we as military forces now decide that we want to be deployed in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u79	... against the Dutch population? That's what I'm talking about. You say that you are going to investigate the GDPR, and I understand that, but today's answer must be whether the Minister agrees with me that there has been no basis for the LIMC to decide to conduct analyses and impose itself on the Dutch emergency services...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u81	...without being asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u82	The third main task is not at all on the agenda here. That is what we wrote in the letter. I have already written in the letter, and I have just explained to you that no request for assistance has been made, so there can be no surgery on the basis of the third main task. That's why I want to know exactly what happened. I fully agree with you on that point. The basis could be preparation for the first and second main tasks. It's possible. For this, the information-driven action is also experimental. I started to explain that to you. But we need to know that first. Then we need to know whether this was done within the framework of the GDPR, because that is the framework. So I agree with you in part, but in part we do not know at this time either. We just need to know. I will send that to your Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mrs Belhaj wishes to place another interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u84	But it's independent, so I can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u85	Your next interruption. Please continue. Your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr President, thank you. Then I will at least ask the Minister today: did she know that the LIMC was working on what it was doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u87	I was briefed on this after a certain period of time. Then I knew that, we talked about it and shut it down, as we wrote to you. I knew, of course, that the LIMC was established, because it is also relevant, as I explained, for our task in the context of information-driven action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mrs. Belhaj, you're working on the second part of your interruption. So you can make a second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u89	Sometimes it is not necessary, but then the Minister's answer is very important. So she wasn't asked in advance. Or has it given a mandate to the LIMC to carry out these activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u90	The answer to that is no, but I just want to know first. The LIMC is therefore established for the first and second main tasks. That's good. People also have to do their job in that context, and information-driven action is important. A call for assistance always comes along. There hasn't been one. That's why we need to figure this out. In all cases, I am always responsible for what happens, so you can always call me on that. That's what you did. That is why I wrote a letter at your request and indicated that we will answer it in full. The responsibility will always remain with me; that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u91	Mr Öztürk has another question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u92	The Minister says that she was not informed, that she was gradually informed. Isn't it bad that a part of your department does something that more or less can't do? Doesn't that piss you off?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u93	We don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u94	Are you not going to take action and say that this is no longer possible, that this is no longer possible; you must first ask the Minister for permission and then do this kind of business? That's why I asked you this. "LIMC" is quite an international term; do others also influence these people so that they do things you do not know about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u95	The Minister or the Secretary of State is not informed every day, every minute about what happens in practice on a daily basis. It is clear that we have shut it down at the time when we were not sure whether it was in line with the GDPR and the framework. That's what we wrote to you. So that's what the investigation needs to be about. I have just explained this in your direction, and I thought you were satisfied, as was Mrs Belhaj. So we have to wait and see, because that is the framework. Then we will see if there has been any action within the framework. If not, something's really wrong. Then we'll report it to you. We just don't know that yet!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u96	Okay, I hear reruns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u97	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u98	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u99	So we'll just have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u100	The research is fine with me and I am also fine with the fact that it is independent. But this can't be done, can it? Surely it is not possible for an organisation to be set up to collect information about our citizens, to inform the minister about them gradually and to investigate them afterwards? Maybe there are other things being done right now that you don't know about. Do you not think that you should put things in order and say: wait a minute, this cannot be done; the Chamber does not want this, we do not want it, our citizens do not want it; I need to be informed and only when I have agreed can it be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u101	These are all assumptions made by Mr Öztürk, of which I do not know whether they are true. Mr Öztürk does not know that either. That is why we need to do the research first and it is wiser, Mr Öztürk, to wait for it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u102	Through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u103	I am sorry that Mr Öztürk is waiting and that we will be able to discuss this with you in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mrs Karabulut still has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u105	Can I keep it limited to just one question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u106	I'd like to write that down, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u107	Thank you. Following Mrs Belhaj: was the Minister informed that, as the Minister says, the first and second main tasks were being carried out by spying on and watching their own citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u108	In the debate, I really did abandon the assumption made by Mrs Karabulut about the oral questions. At the moment, she has no reason to believe that this assumption is true, except that I have read it in the newspaper. I distance myself from spying. We may indeed train for information-driven action, because we know that. We just need to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u109	Waiting for the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u110	...wait for the investigation! That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u111	Please continue. You may finish your interruption, Mrs Karabulut, but I will count it as interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u112	I have already replied to the oral questions on this point once, Mr President. I'm really gonna distance myself from that, because we don't know. So we just have to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u113	So much for this subject. Please continue with the following topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u114	Yeah, let's see... what was the next topic? Oh, that was the subject of Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen's regular briefing on the developments and results of missions. That's what I wanted to link to this. Can we think about that? It is not the case that the Chamber is only informed once a year about the stakes. There are progress reports, interim evaluations and Article 100 letters. We are also talking about new mandates. We also inform the Chamber about relevant developments in any mission. If I may interpret your question in such a way that there is a need to understand the operational aspects even if it is not Article 100, I would like to think about that. However, I would like to add that every time we consider the issue of confidential matters, this is certainly the case in the case of operationally sensitive information. It's always gonna be that way. So some things just can't be shared. Then there is Mrs Karabulut's point about the Dutch military in Afghanistan. That's the third block, about Afghanistan and Sorgbearer. She asked me to reflect on what happened to the Australians. It is, of course, terrible what has happened and I am very pleased that Australia has carried out its own research. Australia itself reported to us, in a letter from the Minister to me but also in a letter from the CDS to the CDS, that there was no Dutch involvement in abuses. As a cabinet, we have no indications of that either. However, we do carry out an inventory as a Defense Department to check whether there is indeed no reason, in Dutch opinion, to assume any involvement in Australian abuses. Your Chamber has asked written questions about this. There were also questions from Mrs Karabulut, who also did so orally here. I think it is very careful to look very carefully at those written questions and to answer them. We'll try to do that as soon as we can once we've figured out some things. The cabinet therefore has no reason to assume that there is any Dutch involvement, also in light of what we have heard from Australia. Mrs Belhaj had a number of questions about the Sorgdrager committee. She asked me if I have determined whether the President has done so. The chairman did that all by himself. It is an independent committee of a minister of state. I briefed your room on 26 November. Because of the importance of independence, I do not think it is up to me to make statements about it either. Mrs Belhaj also asked about the article in NRC last Saturday. Is that included in the investigation? Yes. I assume that the committee will also read the newspaper and do everything in its power to get what is requested in the operative part of your motion. The committee is independent. As you know, the Commission of Inquiry's decision on arms deployment Hawija has also been published. I sincerely hope that lessons can also be learned for the future. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions of several Members about international cooperation. Mr Van den Bosch, Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen and Mrs Belhaj asked questions about Europe. I told you, I think it's very important to work together. Mr Van den Bosch mentioned a number of partnerships. For the sake of time, I don't call them all now. He called it MRTT (Multi Role Tanker Transport). Everything's English, Chairman. The chairman of the committee may never do so in English, but then I never know the Dutch name. I fully agree with him that we should focus on various partnerships. We're already doing that bilaterally with some of them. He quoted the Netherlands-Germany. He had the idea to look more at the northern European side. We're a member of the Northern Group. We are very active in this. We are the southernmost country of the Northern Group. We participate in the JEF (Joint Expeditionary Force). That's also aimed at that side. I also think they are countries with equal, shared values. So we've already picked that up. In response to Mrs Belhaj's question, I would like to point out that we are working together at EU level, for example on climate change, where we are tractor and military mobility. We are also doing the PESCO side together. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen specifically asked about the Caribbean and the motion tabled by Mrs Diks in the past. Last spring, the Defence Department concluded negotiations for a multi-annual status agreement with France on the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. On 5 June, the National Council of Ministers approved the signing of the Convention. But now it has to be approved by France first. The status agreement can then be signed and that step has therefore been taken again. In the context of wider security in the Caribbean, we work together in EI2. That is the European Intervention Initiative of Mr Parly's French colleagues. For example, we have operated together with France, England and the Netherlands on the issue of corona control with ships. We also had a joint hub. There will also be a response from the National Council of Ministers to the AIV advice Security and legal order in the Caribbean at the beginning of 2021. We will send that to your Chamber. The hurricane relief group of EI2 is also drawn by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u115	There is a question from Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u116	I had also specifically asked about the possibilities for cooperation with the United States. From our alliance, four countries are active in the Caribbean, but I can only hear you say something about three countries. Can you also say something about cooperation with the Americans and how we can also work together in the Caribbean in the area of security in order to ensure that all our citizens are safe from the threats there too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u117	Yes. You linked this to the fact that NATO does not apply to the Caribbean. I did remember that. That's right. We are responsible for security in that area as part of the Kingdom. We are indeed working with the Americans, for example in the coastguard field and on a number of other points. Sometimes that is also necessary for protection when you look at what is happening in the area, for example in Venezuela and otherwise. So we are working with the Americans as well. Then there are questions about the strategic compass of Mr Kerstens and Mrs Belhaj. The question was whether it could be sharper. I think Mrs Belhaj was right to say that the strategic compass is the guiding principle for the EU's Common Security and Defence Policy in the coming period. Preparations for the compass have begun and will not be completed until the first half of 2022 under the French Presidency. Our commitment is to make the overall priorities in the EU Global Strategy more concrete and focus on them. That is, in general, our commitment. I very much agree with Mr Kerstens and Mrs Belhaj. We have also drawn military mobility and that sort of thing. Mr President, the veteran side. There were questions about the veterans from Mr Van Helvert, Mr Kerstens and Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u118	And Mr Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u119	And from Mr Van den Bosch, indeed. And also from DENK, I see now. So there were actually questions from everyone, if I look closely at it. A number of Members have asked questions about veterans. Some also frame it with 75 years of liberation. There's a reason I started my own brief introduction to that subject. The fact that we couldn't actually do what we had all prepared this year was a big blow to the veterans' world. And then I didn't even mention the Invictus Games. It's good to say that again. And can it go on next year? We have chosen to put that back on, but I'm not sure at the moment. I think it's clear that that was a big deal for all of us. Mr Van Helvert had a question about Dutchbat III. At the moment, the investigation is in the final phase. Mr Borstlap's advisory committee is preparing the recommendations. I'm actually expecting this to be offered somewhere in the next few weeks. Then we can see which follow-up steps can be taken towards the Dutchbat III community. I've talked a lot to the Dutchbatter myself. You know that on June 11th I was with Dutchbatters at the memorial at the Square. I found Coen Verbraak's documentary series really very impressive. I think he has really changed the Dutchbat vision in the Netherlands, at least that is what I hope. Mr Stoffer and Mr Öztürk had questions about veteran care. We actually have a very good veteran care system based on the Veterans Act, as you know. Every day a lot of people are working on it to give recognition and appreciation. I think the wounded veterans are getting the best care through the National Care System for Veterans. We have taken action to reduce waiting times. Three new medical examiners have been appointed to the department of Social Medical Research at the ABP this year. The effect will only be visible in 2021, because the inspections carried out by the covid measures, I say in the direction of Mr Kerstens, have stopped in the spring. I am also working on a review of benefits and the provision system to ensure structural, future-proof solutions to these waiting times. We are also endeavouring, I say in the direction of Mr Stoffer, to do everything necessary before, during and after the mission to prevent and/or support moral injuries to military personnel in the treatment and processing of traumas. It's not easy and sometimes it's really complicated. There is an extensive research programme, for example at Radboud University. He's watching that. Then I come to the Ombudsman's point. To Mr Kerstens I say that improving the treatment of complaints is actually a constant focus for me. This also strengthens confidence in the organisation. It is not for nothing that I indicated at the beginning of my introduction that this has also grown. I am pleased that the Ombudsman is looking critically at what can be done better. We look carefully at the recommendations. I did let you know we're having a conversation. We are not sending the youngest servant to the Ombudsman. By the way, even if we were to send the youngest servant, it would be a really good employee in the Defense Department, I just wanted to say. 'Cause I thought this was kind of crazy. After all, I myself started working at a young age, I say in the direction of Mr Kerstens. I would find it terribly, terribly annoying if then a Mr. Christmas or someone else had said about me that I arrived as a youngest servant. I'm assuming that all of our people are just doing their job to honor and conscience and in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u120	There are two interruptions. I think Mr Stoffer is returning to mental care. But maybe we'll just finish this point. Mr. Kerstens, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u121	Of course, I fully agree with the Minister. From young to old in the organization, from high to low in rank, and also the civilian people in the Defense Department: they're all very good and they're doing their best. What I wanted to say in particular is that the youngest servant is a little bit more involved in the matter when it comes to the improvements relating to the complaint procedure than the Minister himself. I expected the Minister himself to visit the Ombudsman, if only because he is now complaining for the fourth time. I expected the Minister himself to visit the Ombudsman, if only because he has been complaining for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u122	Then you are wronging what we have done, because we ourselves have had an evaluation and it has been partly parallel. There is also a little more to be said about it, but I will not do so now for the sake of time, Mr President. Since that external evaluation that we have carried out ourselves and which you have also been able to see for yourself, we have been working on improving measures. This Ombudsman's report was partly parallel, so a number of things have not been taken into account, but we now have one window and we have introduced all kinds of things. There is a little more to be said about it than this, but I think that is far too far for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u123	At the SGP I'm still the youngest servant, but I'm not that crazy anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u124	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u125	Look at Mr Bishop and Mr Van der Staaij. They last longer and are a little older. But it feels good and I am a full member of the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u126	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u127	And the room. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u128	Then there's my question about psychological care. The Minister says excellent things about this, such as the research programme at Radboud University. But my specific question is whether the Minister has the idea that it is in order. Is it enough, or is it the result of that research programme, that perhaps more needs to be done? You can still see physical care, but you can't see this. This can have enormous consequences in the longer term. So that's why I'm paying attention to that. Is the Minister saying that it is really quite in order or does she think that steps really need to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u129	I really think we're doing a good job here. It's complicated, though. You don't see it, and sometimes it comes after years. With that nationwide care system we have and the way we employ psychiatrists and psychologists, I think we're doing really well. It is also recognised internationally that we are doing very well. Let me put it this way. Let's zoom in on this part of the Veteran note in a bit more specific. But I do have the impression it's okay now. As you know, we are putting governance back into the world of veterans. In the next Veterans' Note, let's focus on this subject just as specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u130	That seems to me to be an excellent proposal, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u131	I make that commitment, and I will make sure that it is taken up as well. Mr Van Helvert asked a question about the trade in veterans. I took a look at it and there are actually a lot of things. There are groups of veterans who participate in sports exchanges with the United States. Veterans of Wounded Warriors and The Wounded Soldier participate in the Warrior Games in the United States. There are small groups of athletes who are accompanied by the Veterans Institute. There are also veteran organizations that maintain contact with veterans in the United States. Apparently, every year, veterans ride bikes in the United States. Partly the Veterans Institute subsidises things, because it runs through the Veterans Institute. This helps, for example, to take out travel insurance. I agree with Mr Van Helvert that this type of exchange is very important, also because you see that in the United States there is really another way of recognizing and appreciating; you feel it more in the capillaries. In the Netherlands everything has to be just a bit as we do it. So I applaud it. As you know, we have a new Veteran Institute governance from January 1st. We're all on schedule. I will talk to the Veterans Institute about a merger of veteran organizations to see if, for example, I believe that your proposal was also linked to a veteran initiative when you are on the road as MPs. So I'm just gonna have to look at that. Then I come to the questions put by Mrs Belhaj, Mr Öztürk and Mrs Karabulut on the sg designation. Mrs Belhaj and Mr Öztürk asked about the ukaze-Kok. I'll try to take another misunderstanding away. That is where we have already spoken in the legislative consultation. Defence follows the state-wide policy for prior consent requirements for civil servants. It's been known for years as "the ukaze-kok." I know that from the past, too, when I was a Member of Parliament. This is summarised internally in the sg indication, because we are indeed stricter on one point. We have a duty to seek prior advice on communication. This is because, among other things, there is more confidential information in the Defense Department than in other organisations. This was always in there, by the way. The update of February of this year does not include any new policy in this respect. I have already promised in the legislative consultation that the State-wide policy will be reviewed by the Minister of the Interior. As soon as there's a new government designation, we'll withdraw the Defense designation, so that we have one policy for the whole government. So nothing else will change. I must say something about the Van den Bosch/Van Helvert motion, because I gave that judgment to the Chamber, as you know. But there's something else I wanted to say. I read that motion again. Could you perhaps amend the motion for me, in the sense that you forgot to say that it is not just about military but also about civilian employees in the Defense Department? You have in your motion only the military. As a minister, I find that complicated. So if I could explain the motion in such a way that it applies to everyone, I'd be okay with it, but it would be even nicer if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u132	For the Acts, I see both Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van Helvert rushing. In fact, Mr Van den Bosch made an explicit comment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u133	Let's keep it formal, Mr. Chairman. I can live with the suggestion of the ruler and so can Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you. Good, then that doesn't need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u135	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u136	The Minister is in favour of transparency. The military and also the citizens working at the Defense Department are professionals. Then it wouldn't be appropriate to impose newer, sharper rules, would it? Is the Minister prepared, because the basis is indeed the Civil Service Act, which is much older than the Ukaze-Kok, to withdraw this sg indication, as a clear signal and as a sign of trust and appreciation towards the staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u137	I thought I just said that. If the new arrangement is there, I'll rescind it. I have already said this in the legislative consultation. There is also a motion by Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van Helvert. I gave it to the Court of Justice, and I said that I will act in the spirit of that motion until the new regulation is there, because you must have something. By the way, military personnel are not all covered by the same rules. Anyway, I'm gonna leave that debate for a while, because there's still something to say about that. They are not necessarily covered by the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u138	But that motion embraces the current sg-direction, and that is exactly the problem. I have also given the example that there has been a reservist who has written a very beautiful and clear article in De Telegraaf about why this indication and the further limitation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That gentleman's right on the hook, which in turn proves that this clue is a problem. So again, is the Minister willing, if she's serious about what she says about the trust, about the professionalism of the Defence Officer, both civilian and military, to withdraw that lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u139	I said that I would be prepared to do so when this new arrangement is in place. Actually, I expect it to be there soon. I have checked and understood that there really is at the beginning of January. But I have said, in the light of the motion that has been tabled, that I will also act in that spirit. So that means that we look in that spirit to get the mandatory advice, because that's the only difference that there is in the Communications Service. I am very much in favour of people just saying what they want to say, but some things that happen are also under ministerial responsibility. That is why this ukaze-Kok was eventually made, as you undoubtedly know. Sometimes it is also protection of employees. I have also spoken to a number of soldiers about it. They actually think it is very good that they receive advice, because sometimes they also want to know whether they are releasing something with something they say, something secret or a state secret. So it's partly a protection, too. It's not just negative, I'm just saying. Sometimes it's just good to seek advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u140	Finally, Mrs Karabulut, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u141	There's an old clue. The Minister has deliberately sharpened it. Well, that turns out to be the case now, because the Minister confirms it. After our insistence, that sg-direction came up. Then there was a new tightening up, which turns out to be restrictive. When you write an article in De Telegraaf, an hour later someone is on the phone to say that you need a Zoom conference call to discuss this. I will propose that this lead be withdrawn. Then the Minister can speak with all the military. I really haven't heard from any military, nor from the military representations, that anyone is happy about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u142	This also applies not only to the military, but also to civilians. I simply disagree with Mrs Karabulut on this point. I have indicated how I will operate and act as part of the Van den Bosch/Van Helvert motion. Then there are Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen's loose questions about killer robots. As far as I am concerned, our weapons systems should always be under meaningful human control. That's what we agreed on internationally. We are opposed to the use of autonomous weapons systems and reject the development and deployment of fully autonomous systems. This puts us in line with the AIV opinion on autonomous weapons systems from 2015. The AIV is currently working on a review of this opinion. It will appear in mid 2021. Then we can discuss it with the reaction of this or another cabinet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u143	Fine. An interruption at this point, isn't it? Go ahead, Mr. Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u144	Thank you for the answer. I'm very happy to hear that you are so explicit about that meaningful human control. At the moment, I have the impression that we define the rejection of fully autonomous weapons rather narrowly, because we attach it very much to the self-learning ability of those weapons. Especially in the case of autonomous weapons that make choices based on algorithms, the question is whether they are still under meaningful human control. So I was very curious to see how you feel about that. And can you also say something about the call that has actually been made within the UN since 2014 for a revision of the Convention on conventional weapons? Do you agree that that treaty is actually in need of revision to ensure that we also include autonomous weapons? And do you agree that we should take a position on this already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u145	The latter issue will certainly also have to be discussed with the Foreign Ministers. I think it's wise that the AIV opinion of....what is it? I've got it here, but I have to turn it around for a second. 2015 is being revised; you mentioned 2014 for something else. I think it would be wise to have a new AIV advice. Then we can talk about the substance, about the width, about it. You are quite right, of course: there has been a development in recent years. Al's moving fast. It's a rat race, to use just one English word. If you have any advice and a reaction, maybe it's out of date again. But I think it is careful just to wait for that advice and then to discuss it with each other. Hopefully we can still do that together; we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u146	That would be great if we could do that together. Do you have any indication when the AIV will come up with that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mid 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mid 2021, so not before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u149	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u150	Not before the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u151	No. No. Let's see. Then I disagree with Mrs Karabulut, who explicitly said that the use of covid was difficult to get started from the Defence Department. I really don't agree with that. In March we deployed a lot of soldiers in a short time. We've been riding everything we had on ventilator equipment, everywhere. We have been the ones who set up the National Coordination Centre for Patients in the Erasmus Medical Centre, with medical planners who also do so in countries such as Afghanistan and Iraq and who have done so through NATO systems. We've set up care hotels and set up people. The Chairman of the National Network Acute Care, Ernst Kuipers, has also explicitly expressed his appreciation for this. We recently trained a thousand people within one and a half weeks, and they were not all needed to be able to test. There was no one who could do that as quickly as we did. Our medical staff, 100 people, is still joining the UMC Utrecht, because we learned from the first crisis. We have said that we must not spread it all across the country; we must make a central effort. So we have 100 people working in Utrecht. We're helping with the rapid test streets now. We've now helped food banks and run rations. I even talked to Mrs Karabulut about that. So I really don't agree with you. We have really shown here how quickly we can do something logistics. Mr Kerstens called on me to amend the Indonesia regime. I am familiar with the motion tabled during the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget. I agree with Mr Blok. In accordance with his commitment, we will inform you as soon as possible about the outcome of the review of the reasonable period of time. So we're looking at that thoroughly. I also agree with you, of course, that no money can actually meet the suffering that has been suffered. That is why the State also wanted to offer a system that was already in place for widows. But I will continue to talk to Mr Blok about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr Kerstens has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u153	Yeah, to make it a little clearer. The Minister agrees with me that no money can actually compensate for this suffering. Of course, we agree on this. But most importantly, the following is important. Does she agree with me that, in practice, this low-threshold scheme, as she herself pointed out, is, of course, not at all accessible at all, quite the contrary? You are raising such a high threshold that, so far, only three children, three children, have been eligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u154	I just need to look at that with Mr Blok. Of course I heard you. I also indicated how I see it. The idea is that it would be easily accessible. But in the context of the motion, we shall return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u155	I get that. But my question to the Minister is: how does she feel about that? It indicates that it is aiming for a low-threshold scheme. If the facts work out in the opposite way, it says something about the intention with which you engage in such a conversation with your colleague in the Foreign Office, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u156	Yeah, sure, but I'm gonna talk to the colleague first. Then we'll come back to it in the direction of your room. This has also been discussed in the Foreign Office. Then there is Mr Voordewind's question about Azerbaijan and the prisoners of war in Armenia. It is, of course, also in the field of Minister Blok. I can say that the Minsk Group is in charge of the mediation between Azerbaijan and Armenia. We have, of course, welcomed the ceasefire, as you know. In general, I and the Netherlands consider it important that prisoners of war be transferred from parties, and also as soon as possible. But this is really a point that lies on the subject of Mr Blok. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have Mrs Karabulut's questions on the non-proliferation treaty. By the way, written questions have also been put to Mr Blok and me together, which I will answer with him. Indeed, the Netherlands strives to be as transparent as possible about the nuclear weapons task and the related issues, within the framework of the ally agreements. As you know, there are no statements on the presence or absence of nuclear weapons in the Netherlands due to the agreements between the parties. The recent announcement of an annual NATO nuclear-scale exercise is part of our commitment to greater transparency. You have also asked questions about this exercise. We'll answer that. I would like to say the following about the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The Netherlands has actively participated in the negotiations on a nuclear weapons ban, because any initiative aimed at a nuclear-free world deserves our attention and our commitment. We agree on that. We are also talking about this in very general terms when we are preparing the Nuclear Planning Group. If the Netherlands does not sign or agree to a treaty that risks undermining the Non-Proliferation Treaty, or that is not sufficiently verifiable. In addition, as the Netherlands, we cannot sign the nuclear weapons ban, because the current treaty is incompatible with NATO membership and with the task that we ultimately fulfil. In the end, it goes against our security interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u157	I laughed for a moment because I congratulated the Minister on her openness to the presence and exercise of nuclear weapons. I mean that sincerely. I listened to the fragment at WNL again this morning to refresh my memory. In that the Minister says very clearly: we have indeed practiced and it was really Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO man, who came here. It's in conflict...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u158	Please ask your question briefly. Your questions are taking too long. Please ask a little shorter questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u159	It takes a while, because it's amazing that the Foreign Minister first denied what the Minister had confirmed on TV, and now I'm tasting lightly in the sense that she's turning back. There's been practiced with nuclear weapons in the Netherlands, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u160	I've been listening to it for a while. It was during the broadcast of WNL on Sunday 18 October. In this sense, it is right that you think it is important, because it is the first time that NATO has issued a press release, publicly, on a NATO exercise with a nuclear dimension, where there has been realistic practice. That's what I said. I've also been listening. Of course, I have also heard that Rick Nieman drew a conclusion to which I have not responded. But it is a very important step. As Mrs Karabulut knows, I always bring the points raised by the Chamber seriously. I am also in favour of greater transparency in this area, but we must stick to the agreements that are currently in place. I've outlined it to you. However, I think it is quite a step forward that NATO, with Jens Stoltenberg, who explains this, should make known the realistic practice of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u161	Sure. This is greatly appreciated, and it is also a very important social issue, which the minister's party has been working on for years. That is right, because we need to be able to have that debate here in our democracy. The minister indeed nodded again at WNL to Rick Nieman: they are really there. I now turn to my follow-up question. Is it true that this exercise is contrary to the second article of the NPT, namely that you cannot practice with nuclear weapons or ask other states to do so? And what is the Minister going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u162	I just said that we did not want to sign the original treaty, because it threatens to undermine the non-proliferation treaty and is not sufficiently verifiable. Nor can we sign because the present treaty is incompatible with our NATO membership and goes against security interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u163	So the treaty wasn't signed. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u164	Just so we're clear, we're treaty partners in the NPT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u165	Yeah, that's what we're treaty partners for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u166	And the NPT says: "Each non-nuclear-weapon State Party to the Treaty undertakes not to receive the transfer from any transferor whatsoever of nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices." So can the Minister confirm that this exercise is in breach of the NPT?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u167	I'm not going to confirm that. We have been practicing, as you know. I'm not going to confirm that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u168	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u169	... just as I cannot talk about some of these matters anyway, because, unfortunately, we do not talk about them in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u170	I had another question about the previous point, namely Nagorno-Karabakh and the treatment of prisoners of war, the Armenians now controlled by the Azeris. Terrible images of them now appear: they are beaten and abused. All that goes against the law of war.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u171	Could you make a very specific statement on what this has to do with the defence budget? This is actually more like the State Department. That is what the Minister says, and I understand that from the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u172	That's what I was about to do. This is something of the last few days. We have, of course, had the State budget. But that Minister is, of course, in the NATO Council, and that is where we could raise it. I ask the Minister whether she would like to discuss it with her Foreign Minister, Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u173	I'd like to do that. I have just said that this is more Mr Blok's area, but I have of course also seen what is happening. I have indicated how the Netherlands stands in it. We agree on that, by the way. I would be happy to discuss this point with Mr Blok and see if we can discuss it in the NATO Council. Mr President, that is what I think I have come to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u174	I see Mr Fritsma getting up, and I understand that, because he has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u175	The other points are all answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u176	This means that the points of border control and Turkish military service are dealt with by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u177	The Turkish military service is, but the border guard isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u178	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u179	But this is not the Defence budget, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u180	I am looking at Mr Fritsma, because he had asked a question about that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u181	I had indeed asked a question about this, because it is true that the DOD is about border control. The Royal Marechaussee is used for border surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u182	Yes, but not under our authority. We're administrators, as you know, but it's not our authority. You know that like no other, by the way. I did agree with your compliments that we carry out our duties well as a police officer. Corps management is always happy about that. But you know better than anyone that that is not our budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u183	I'm not...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u184	Mr Fritsma knows that like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u185	He's gonna answer quietly without being interrupted. Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u186	That's right. I do not agree with the Minister, because it also has to do with the first core task of defence, namely the defence of its own territory. Does the Minister recognise that this core task is not compatible with the current open borders, which have proven that terrorists enter the Netherlands and are already in the Netherlands? A Secretary of Defense must also be given sleepless nights that this country is so easily accessible to terrorists. Of course it has to do with the DOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u187	I just don't agree with that. It's one of the threats. That is what I raised at the beginning of my speech in the Defence Vision. There is indeed a terrorist threat, but I do not agree with your idea that it is therefore a task of the Defense Department. We also act on the third main task, because that is what it is mostly about, always with a request for assistance. We have just discussed this on another subject. It's under civilian authority. As you know, border surveillance is a task of the Secretary of State for JenV. So if you'd like to ask questions like this, I think you should be with JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u188	Then you'll join another commission, Mr. Fritsma. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u189	But this proves how easily this threat is overcome. Of course, it has to do with Defence; we have talked about this before in this debate. I have a list of ten Syrian terrorists alone who have entered the Netherlands and have been granted residence permits. That affects national security like no other. Then I do not understand why the Minister does not admit that we have a problem with this and that it may be necessary, through border surveillance, for which the defence is responsible, to combat this threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u190	We certainly carry out the tasks, but it is not our responsibility. The authority really lies with JenV. This is how we divided it into this country. I'm not denying the threat, by the way. I really want to take that idea away. That's what I said at the beginning of my story about the Defence Vision. It may not have been included in the Defence Vision long enough for Mr Fritsma, but it is indeed a real threat. It's one of the threats that we're prepared to face and that's in our defense vision. That is why we are acting in Iraq and Afghanistan. That's also to stop people, as you know. It's better to avoid it. Mr President, the rest is for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u191	Fine. There is another question for you from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u192	In the Prime Minister's introductory story, she had a whole speech about diversity, inclusion and more women in the Defense Department. Congratulations on those numbers. But diversity doesn't just mean more women in Defense; it's also about ethnic background. I don't hear the Minister about that. I want to know the figures of the number of officers and new employees with a migration outcome. It would be good to extend the diversity policy, regardless of the women, which is good for women and to indicate here every year what has been done and whether more people with a migration outcome have come to work with the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u193	I think the Secretary of State should take that up. It's in the P-report. By the way, we should not keep track of a number of things in the context of GDPR and other legislation. The Secretary of State will see if she can comment on that. We do report on some of these points in the P-report. There's no misunderstanding about us being too white. We have said this once before. Diversity offers opportunities. I thought Mrs Belhaj made that point in the legislative consultation. Diversity offers opportunities, because we still have many vacancies open. So we're looking at that, too. But this is a point that the Secretary of State will take on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u194	Fine. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. We'll do 10 minutes until 12:20. Then we'll move on and the Secretary of State will be next. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u195	If the Members of Parliament agree that the Minister will be here shortly, I can now give the floor to the Secretary of State. Because there are a lot of questions addressed to her and I wouldn't waste any time. I am therefore giving the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u196	I understand that, Mr President, also in view of the House's busy agenda today with another important budget, that of VWS. But the minister's coming in now. In my opinion, she has indicated very clearly what we have put together in the Ministry of Defence with all our staff in the last three years. As the Minister said, it was also a special year. Actually, this year would be completely dedicated to the celebration of 75 years of freedom with the Invictus Games and a beautiful Veteran Day, but unfortunately it all went a different way or not. The old veterans who fought the Second World War and who were there at the beginning of the celebration of 75 years of freedom, whether it was in Terneuzen, Maastricht or Brabant, the pride they had and how welcome they felt here in the Netherlands because they were there again; that was so nice to see. It's such a shame they couldn't go through with it. That makes this a special year, including for both of us, because this is probably our last budget. You never know, but this does make it special. I indicated what wasn't going on, but it's also special what covid meant to our organization. The Minister indicated our commitment, but it also directly affected the way in which we did and had to do our work. Every year we depend very much on new people. We need to be able to recruit them, more than 4,000 a year. At that time it was no longer necessary... Or not needed anymore, it was very necessary, but it wasn't so easy to realize that anymore. I am proud that our organisation has been able to continue the recruitment and selection during the covid period. Of course, it will affect the amount of military we are able to recruit this year. We have also been able to continue the training as much as possible. Because you have to realize that Defence is actually the biggest trainer in the Netherlands. Another organization advertises that, but actually it's Defense, because we have over 30,000 functions in our office building. We are the Netherlands in small: from kites to IT and medical staff, but also staff that you don't pull out of school banks, because you don't learn everything there. A Marine, an infantryman, a combat leader; they are all functions for which there is no HBO training, no MBO training and no university either. That means that we have to invest heavily in it and do so all the time. This also means that we sometimes encounter bottlenecks there. I will go into this in a moment when I answer the questions put by several Members of Parliament about what we are seeing now. I will do so on the basis of the Defence Note that we have adopted, and I will do so on the basis of people, resources and manners. I will also answer the questions of the Members of Parliament. Among the people I will focus on the questions that have been asked about the staff model, the wage building, the AOW-hole, reserveists, diversity, chromium-6 and Turkish service. A number of specific questions have been asked which I will take with me. Funds will focus on real estate, submarines, the F-35, the name of future frigates and international cooperation. In other ways, I will deal with a number of specific points. Perhaps it is good to start with a contradiction that I sometimes taste in the Chamber from different parties. Sometimes I hear: don't invest in equipment anymore, especially in staff. I don't think that's a contradiction. You have to do both. What our people need is just good equipment, like the big weapons systems. If you work in the Navy, you just need good frigates and submarines. That's what you need to invest in. But you also have to invest in the equipment: the combat gear, the combat boots. This also applies very practically to the square meters for our employees. It's about the army buildings that need to be refurbished, but it's also about things like the cell phone. We have decided to hand over a mobile phone to every employee during this cabinet period. Very practical things. That's also material. Large weapons systems and practical matters for our employees: all material, all necessary. As the Minister pointed out: in recent years we have seen that precisely this combination, investing in staff and in material, leads to great working satisfaction. An increase of more than 10% in work satisfaction shows that this combination is more than necessary. But of course we are not there yet, because, as the Chamber rightly points out, much remains to be done. 'Cause we've come a long way too. In the Chamber several concerns have been expressed, for example, about the vacant functions. We see in this period that if you invest one and a half billion, about 6,000 formation sites will be added. That has to do with the investments that have been made. If 4,000 people in and out each year and the labour market hasn't gotten much bigger, on the contrary; you can see that the number of young people in the Netherlands is falling... shows what great, extremely complex task we are facing. That has to do with your personnel system. That is what we do with each other at a time when we have a staff model that is not really open, as several speakers have said, because it is just closed. It doesn't allow for flexibility and customization. There is therefore a need to invest in this. Several questions have been asked about this, which I would like to answer. I think it's good to show... Mr. Christmas reacts immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u197	But if you'll just calm down and finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u198	In his contribution, Mr Kerstens asked what the model looked like and what it needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u199	Oh, you don't stand for that now. Go ahead, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u200	That's what I'm here for, but I'm not standing in front of the interrupting microphone right now. I rushed to the microphone because I heard the Secretary of State was going to talk more about that model. My question concerns something she said before, namely the labour market. It doesn't really look so super beneficial to the Defense Department if you look at a shrinking labour market and fewer young people. Unfortunately, however, we are now in a different situation, in which many people, including young people, are entering the labour market because of the corona crisis. Perhaps the Secretary of State could also devote a few sentences to the opportunities she sees in that for Defence. I said something about this in my speech the day before yesterday, and so did Mr Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u201	A specific question about the work guarantee. I think that question is in a separate block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u202	Yes, I will come back to that later. I think Mr Kerstens is right to ask what opportunities Defence sees in these difficult corona times. What he says is important. We do indeed have a labour market which is shrinking in the short term in terms of the number of young people, which Defence must be talking about, given the physical efforts of the military. I know that Mrs Belhaj would also like to register, but that because of her age she is no longer able to do so, because there are demands. That is precisely why we want to reform. I think it is important, also in view of the results achieved during this cabinet period, that we have achieved two very major reforms. I mentioned it last Monday in the legislative consultation: we managed to implement a new military service termination scheme. This means very clearly that you will retire five years before reaching the AOW pensionable age by means of the Umm (Executive Military Act). That is an important reform. Another reform that we have managed to achieve during this cabinet period is the transition from the final wage system to the middle wage system. All things that have been discussed for a very long time. The same applies to the new staff model and the remuneration system. You know: a pay system that is more than 100 years old indicates how complex it is to change that. That has to do with what I just said: if you have more than 30,000 functions and you want to change the remuneration system, that means you have to take a lot of steps to do it carefully. That's why we're doing it staged. I'll start with the HR model. Mr Kerstens, Mr Stoffer and Mrs Belhaj asked in the legislative consultation last Monday what that would look like. I have indicated that two things are important when it comes to the frameworks for a new HR model. That has to do with a new defense vision. It has to fit in with that, of course. You have just had an exchange of views with the Minister. It has to be high-tech and information driven, so that also means something for the way you set up your model. By definition, this means more room for customization and v differentiation, because cyber, for example, is not comparable with medical personnel. That actually applies to everything within the Defense Department. This includes a new system of remuneration. We do that on the basis of a number of tracks. One of these is new forms of appointment and contract. We have experimented with this in the labs in the past period. The second is the introduction of strategic talent management. That's very important. Now everyone follows the career path of the organization, so everyone has to go through the same mold. Now we turn it around: we start with the employee and we look at what we can do using strategic talent management. It looks at what needs to be done per employee. That is a fundamental change. That sounds very simple, but that's not how the organization works at the moment. That is why we have chosen not to start with policy pieces from The Hague reality, but to start with phase zero. I just mentioned them as well: the test gardens. Mr Van Helvert asked: is it true that 30 soldiers were appointed in one day and that they could also proceed immediately? Yeah, those are the labs at the Peel. Until a few years ago, it was totally impossible that you could be placed directly in a position in one day. What did we do there? We have looked at the inspection requirements and what kind of work people are actually going to do. - Is that a check-up? - Yeah. Can't you do something else with that? Can't you offer other contracts? We also do this in Volkel, in Oirschot and in Den Helder, when it comes to the submarine that has just started. We do that on different fronts. We look at what we get out of it and how we can then translate it into policy. At the heart of the matter is that we have centralized a great deal when it comes to our staff. If you want to go back to the individual, you have to decentralize a lot and put a lot of things back with commanders themselves, because they experience the employees in practice. That's what we're experimenting with in the labs. On that basis, we are looking at what kind of things we need to change in policy. We have now invested a lot of mandates lower in the organization. We have made sure that we have come to other courses together with rocks in the labs. Defence is also much more anchored in the region itself. We have agreed with companies in the region on a job guarantee, so that people who have worked at Defense can make a switch to another company in the region. So much has happened in that sense. That's phase zero. We deliberately chose to let that go through and take it with us. That also raises the question of Mr Kerstens and Mr Stoffer: what does the picture look like now? I want to draw up the programme plan early next year. How are we going to do that strategic talent management? How are we going to do these new forms of appointment and contract? That's included. Last Monday I indicated that there were a number of conditions for this. This should be supported by a new staff organisation, new IT and strategic staff planning. You want to know what is happening in the labour market and how. These five elements will make up that programme plan. I said last Monday that it would take three to five years for you to actually implement all of that, because you're actually asking for an organizational change. Anyone who has ever experienced a major organisational change knows that three to five years is quite short. But you also want to be able to adjust those career paths by Defense Unit. We do not want to say Defence-wide how things should be dealt with, but leave the army, the air force, the navy and the Royal Marechaussee the room to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u203	I fully agree with the Secretary of State that it must be done carefully and that it will take some time. You better do it right at once than wrong a few times. But when are people gonna notice? When does an individual employee of the Defense Department notice that in his scaling-up or whatever? I'm guessing not everything's gonna take three to five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u204	No, a number of things are already being noticed. Because if you go to Volkel now and talk to the people at Volkel Air Force Base and sit with the instructors, you will notice that they are very enthusiastic. An instructor who works there went to the schools, the roc's, and gave information there. So he's already seen those students and then he gets them in his class. These people then go through specific training and can also get to work directly. The training time and the placement time have been shortened, so those people notice immediately. The same goes for Oirschot and in the Peel. Defense wide will be different. Next year we will have to discuss the forms of contract with the power stations to see if there are more possibilities for customization and differentiation, and of course it is also important that you think from the individual. The other is DC-HR management. That has to do with those career paths and how you put the employee at the centre. That will also take a little longer because it is different from one Defense component to another. To this end, I also indicated on Monday that our current IT system does not support that, for example. The replacement of that system is planned in 2023. So sometimes it won't go quite as we'd like it to go, but with what's possible, given the IT support, we're going to have to do it as well. So I'm actually expecting the employees to notice things in their own Defense Department as of next year. But it's going to take at least until 2023 before you can really roll it out, because you can't facilitate support especially in terms of IT. But the Defence Material Organisation is already working on strategic personnel planning, for example. The Air Force is already engaged in very concrete translation of information from the labour market. So several Defense components are already working on a number of issues from the new personnel model. The employees notice this immediately, because they also benefit from it. That is what we will be working on in the coming period. I have indicated to you that the test gardens will go through, but the things we have extracted from them will lead to a plan that will be ready in the first quarter of 2021. Following a question by Mr Kerstens last year, in my view during the budget debate, I indicated that I would inform you in the staff report of progress and what results. So I suggest we do the same. It will then have to be rolled out by Defence component until 2023. This will be phased out, so we will coordinate with the power stations the forms of the contract of employment. That's what we want to do next year, 2021. We also want to roll out the personnel planning methodology next year across all Defence components. We also want a new P&D organisation to be set up. It will be ready by the end of 2022. And from the replacement of the personnel systems, which is also IT, I have said: from 2023 onwards. The sooner the better, but I don't think we can go any faster. This means that we are committed to completing this process by 2023. I see Mrs. Belhaj getting up, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u205	She's allowed to post an interruption. Go ahead, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u206	It's nice to have the Secretary of State clarify what's going to be deployed at what time. I think that Mr Kerstens is very pleased with that, because he has asked for it many times. Well, I guess I'm kind of stuck with this. In the beginning you indicated: it is both material and staff. But of course, there will come a time when you have to make a choice. Of course, the Material Fund is fine, but if people feel that the extra money is going there, it means automatically, especially for the collective bargaining and therefore for the trade unions, that there is very little room left to do anything for the staff. Does the Secretary of State say, on the basis of what is needed for the staff, that it should be given the highest priority? Is she saying that if additional resources are added in any coalition, at least the focus should be on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u207	I think we've made it quite clear with the Defense Vision what is needed for the Defense Department. I tried to make it clear in my introduction that we see that employee satisfaction is not just about working conditions. I don't think so. Of course they play a role, but we see that people also look at their concrete working environment: do I have good Wi-Fi? The predecessor of Mr Van Helvert in this Chamber, Mrs Bruins Slot, often referred to "from the camping wifi to the home wifi." We've invested heavily in that, as in mobile phones, which our employees didn't have... clothing and combat boots. Like the army building, they're extremely important. It's also investing in stocks. I told you before: if you don't have ammo to practice with, you can be very proud of very nice terms of employment, but that's no good. So it's en-and-and-and-and. And we've made clear in the Defense Vision what it takes to put that in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u208	Ever since I've been in the Chamber, I've learned that if you keep the budget the same but also say "and-and-and-and-and" you can't. It's gonna go wrong somewhere. I agree with the Secretary of State that there are more things that make people happy in their work, but the Secretary of State is a little unaware that it is really about pay. That is why people eventually decide to work in the private sector instead of applying to the Defense Department. Otherwise we wouldn't have had 10,000 vacancies, I guess. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State not to trivialize the importance of a good salary. Many soldiers are currently earning a salary they think: I do it with a lot of love, but if there is an offer, I'm going to do something else. I don't think we should want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u209	We totally agree on that, but I also started by saying that the DOD has a lot of fluctuations. In 2009 and 2010 we had 12,000 vacant functions. In 2012, 12,000 went off. That's when we had to cancel. Right now, we're under 9,000. In the last staff report it was higher, but the figures are decreasing. That is also why we have said in the Defence Vision that it is in the interests of the Defence Department that the organisation is stable, precisely because your employees do not withdraw from the school banks and you have to invest a lot in training and experience building. So that we go from plus 12,000 vacancies to minus 12,000 four years later and we are now below 9,000, also shows what the fluctuations are. And that shows that we benefit from stability and long-term politics. Mrs Belhaj indicated that the salary is important. Absolutely. But we also see that employee satisfaction has indeed increased since we had the new working conditions agreement, have a new pension system and have invested heavily at the bottom of our wage building. We have done so not only through the reimbursement of the pension contribution, but also through a temporary allowance, the increase in the allowance and the completion of the end-of-year allowance. We have also realised a number of other things. What people are now leaving for is the way they control the organization. I will come back to that later on in the manners. It's not working conditions anymore. So I would like to nuance the image of Mrs Belhaj that it is only the working conditions. There are a lot of other things that are important to our people when it comes to working at the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u210	Mrs Belhaj, you can ask two separate questions in this debate, so if you ask one more question now, then you have one separate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u211	Some people are very happy that there are only two left, Mr President. The Secretary of State doesn't really go into what I'm saying. The Secretary of State says there's a fluctuation. Yes, there is because it is also determined by something that you cannot influence. You cannot influence the labour market entirely. So that a lot of people have left in a time of economic boom, in which there were a lot of vacancies, I don't think that's so weird. Then you can stand on your head as Secretary of State, but then those people are gonna do other things. My question is simply whether you understand that there is no focus if you do not explicitly choose it. You have to prioritize at some point, and in the Defence vision is everything: and-and-and-and-and-and. Again I see that CDA and VVD are about to say: well, I think it's time to start working on 72 F-35s. And that's not what I want. At least I want people to fly those things later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u212	We share that. I think everyone in this room shares that. You just want people to be able to do their job and there's enough staff so that there's no too much work pressure. I agree with Mrs Belhaj. That is why we have invested heavily in all these things in this cabinet period. The fact that we have invested in a collective agreement, in which we have invested heavily in pensions, a temporary wage building and allowances, also indicates that we are doing both, in addition to that square meter and also those large weapons systems. People in the Navy just want to be able to sail with the best frigates. For example, Mr Voordewind asked about material readiness. Yeah, that's got to do with this. If you work with outdated equipment, it becomes increasingly difficult to maintain it and it will also cost much more money. So you have to do both. I agree with Mrs Belhaj. Another major reason for our people's departure is the lack of career prospects. That is exactly why you need to go to a staff model that no longer relies on the organization, in which the organization is central and determines that everyone has to go through the same mess. That doesn't make it attractive. In today's labour market, people think, "I'll decide for myself." If another employer comes along which offers more flexibility and more opportunities to combine work and private life, then that choice has been made quickly. That is what we see in an attractive labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u213	The Secretary of State just mentioned me in terms of preparation and equipment, but my comments were broader. It goes hand in hand towards the staff. If we have enough equipment, but no qualified staff to control or handle it, as Mrs Belhaj also says, then it is out of work. My question was to look beyond the new wage building that needs to be built, also at specialized staff. Maybe we can buy that from somewhere else. You might need a special envoy to see if we can reach the right level in relation to the high-quality technology that we now have at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u214	Yes, that is also what Mr Voordewind asked. I totally agree with him. It's really a focus. We have seen that by covid more than 400 companies themselves have contacted Defense, on the one hand just to work very practically together and on the other because they are dealing with a temporary decline in sales and with staff that they do not really want to say goodbye to. Mr. Kerstens asked for this too. They want to work with the DOD. We are talking to these companies about whether we can do something temporarily. The tricky thing is that there are rules for the military, but we are looking at them very specifically. So we are doing this in the context of what has happened over the past year, but we are also clearly looking at how we can cooperate more with business anyway. We don't do that by competing, because then you're gonna sit on the mechanism of buying away. In the end, that does not seem to me to be a good principle, not even from the government in the broad sense. But we're going for cooperation. For example, we have just concluded an agreement with a large security company; I will not mention the name. In doing so, we want to use shared employership. People work 70% of the time at that security company and 30% of the time at Defense. That is how we try to shape that. That's how we try to do it. Over the past period, we have made agreements with a specific recruitment agency with regard to combat leaders, which is a unique capacity that is lacking; I will not mention the name of this agency either. They've done the recruitment and the whole class is filled. So for a number of things you can do this very concretely. I also see Mr Voordewind's appeal: look much more specifically; apply more tailor-made work, including in your recruitment, to achieve more targeted things. That is what we are doing now, also in the context of the same test areas. So not everything is central, but also decentralised looking at what can and can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u215	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u216	That is what the human resources model is about. Then there's the pay system. I indicated that, if something has been around for a hundred years, it also indicates that you obviously have to make a great deal of effort to change it. It is our ambition to take steps in this regard. That is what we have done with the current collective agreement. There's already a temporary allowance for the payroll building in there. This is what we want, as I said on Monday, especially to facilitate the bottom of the wage building. Because that's where we see the problem. The Chamber has asked several times to ensure that these sergeants, corporals and soldiers have sufficient salary. By paying both the pension contribution and that temporary allowance wage building you can see that we are doing the same. Is that enough? No. Then I'm gonna get to the whole pay system and how we're gonna pick it up. A number of Members of your Chamber have asked questions about this. By definition, it is a step-by-step approach. I heard Mr Van Helvert say that there must be a new wage building by 1 June. No, we agreed that we would work gradually towards a new pay system. A new system of remuneration is made up of several elements. It's about basic pay. What do you want as a basic salary for all your soldiers? What's that look like? What is the special position of the military in concrete terms? What does it look like? Then you're also talking about things like the job evaluation, which is an essential part of that. And you're talking about the allowances. I'll make a comparison. Defense has over 120 grants. The police have 10 of them. This indicates the complexity of two major employers in the Netherlands and how much should be done. That system must be assessed in conjunction with each other. The power stations and the employer Defence must then agree on the basic principles. What is the basic remuneration? Do you do that on the basis of function or rank, as it is now? It is quite crucial to take a decision on this and to agree on it. 'Cause that makes a lot of difference to the institution. Or are you doing a mix? Those are the questions that you have to deal with, and thus also matters such as seniority. The second has to do with the special position. How do you plan on doing the job evaluation? On what basis? What do you make of that? What is the special position of the military? If you've reached a basic remuneration, you'll also determine the allowance. That's the end piece. That makes it very specific. What military effort do you want to make particularly appreciated? That's what you do on the basis of allowances. That is why we have opted for a phase-by-stage development. Of course, both trade unions and Defence as employers want to speed this up, I say to Mr Van Helvert. We simply lost sight of the complexity of the subject, as I indicated in the WHO. The ambition and desire of both parties was to accelerate, because we want to get rid of that 100-year-old model. We have put something on paper that we later noted that we should have better assessed and tackled. The ambition is absolutely to discuss and agree on this in the coming year. If we agree on that, it needs to be rolled out. And even if we agree, that will not happen in 2021. It will also have to take place phase by phase, as I have already given to the Chamber, because you must first have built up some of those three building blocks. Then you have to agree and then you can roll it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u217	Would it be an idea to finish the whole wage building and then do the interruptions at this point? 'Cause if you don't, it's gonna get a little clueless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u219	A little more staccato, if you could.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u220	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. I think I have had the questions about the wage building. That's why I'm just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u221	Okay, all right, all right, all right. I had the independent counselor standing, but that must have been up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u222	Yeah, I'll walk forward more often. No, I'm not. It's a good explanation from the Secretary of State. I can totally follow that one. Now I know that people, not only here in the Chamber but also within the organisation of Defence, are concerned about the fact that the trajectory outlined by the Secretary of State, also about making agreements, is, of course, going over the elections. This has also been discussed with the trade unions, but people are concerned. They might as well trust this Secretary of State when she says there's a pot of money in there. I'm just saying black and white to make good deals. Can she give us a guarantee that this pot of money is still an important prerequisite if these agreements are to be concluded after the elections? 'Cause we're talking about an attractive job and reward building, so it could cost a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u223	As Mr Kerstens knows, something changes after the elections, because then at least the minister and I will be expelled. So I don't know exactly what a new cabinet is going to do, but at least I can tell you what the minister and I are doing. It is not for nothing that we have extended the temporary wage building allowance until at least 1 April 2021, because we think it is important that the individual soldiers do not deteriorate. In the WHO, I also told you that our efforts are also aimed at achieving a new collective agreement, at least for the coming year. That will have to be done in the short term. So all our efforts are aimed at ensuring, for the time being, that we at least clarify the points on which we can clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u224	Then it is always up to the Chamber to decide whether something is controversial or not, because that can always continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u225	That is, of course, true. I also asked the question because I think I tabled a motion here a year ago, which was also adopted and which calls for the conditions to be created to create an attractive job and remuneration building. We knew of each other then, of course, that one of the most important preconditions is the cents. Is the Secretary of State still in favour of this, in the sense of the word 'in fact', and I think that a new cabinet should do the same as 'in fact'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u226	I cannot judge what the outcome of the elections will be, and you cannot do so, and what will be on top of that pile on the formation table of the forming parties. I can tell you what our commitment is, as I have just said. Nor have we done the investments we have made over the past few years for nothing. I think we are already showing that we see the importance of investing in our people. That has happened a lot over the past few years. We see that employee satisfaction has risen and pride of the organisation has increased. Since we've been taking these measurements since 2015, we've actually been at the highest level of pride in the organization and satisfaction with the organization. I think that indicates that we have done what we have been able to do to the best of our consciences. We have also focused on supplementing this, not only with large weapons systems and large IT projects, but also very small and close to people. The way in which control is controlled is one of the main reasons for departure, and it is very much about internal bureaucracy. This also means that it is very much about the discussion about more mandating and more powers at local level so that commanders can decide things themselves instead of everything at the centre. I would like to give an example of the fact that the self-employed small purchases are also discussed here several times in the Chamber with commanders, so that they do not have to buy something for each thing via a central line but can also make decisions themselves. That is what we expect from them in mission area, so that also means here in the Netherlands. Then the external trial counselor. What I find difficult is that it is an advice to both parties, namely the power stations and the employer. This also means that the power stations and the employer must agree on this. My experience over the past few years has been that we have made use of it and, in my opinion, we are satisfied with a number of points, but that will also have to be discussed with the power stations. The big task is to get out of this together. I have faith in that. Then I would like to move on to the AOW-hole, which was also explicitly mentioned in the WHO last Monday. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Kerstens spoke on Monday, and they are doing this again together with Mr Öztürk. He was not there on Monday in this debate. I am going to repeat part of my contribution to this last Monday. The group we're talking about here are soldiers who knew they'd retire at 65 years. They were allowed to expect to receive AOW, but because of the agreement that the AOW age was raised, they did retire but did not receive an AOW. That was the AOW hole. That was compensated at the time. That was the legitimate claim. You should have expected to get AOW and get a pension; you did get a pension, but you didn't get AOW. At that time compensation was granted up to 90%. The Minister and I agreed to join us in the Defence Memorandum to draw a line. Despite a ruling by the Supreme Court that the 90% justified claim was compensated by the scheme and that that was sufficient, we said: let us put a line on it and increase that compensation to 100%. That's the AOW-hole poem. The discussion that is now on the table is the extension of the Ugma (Executive Military Act) to 67. I also said of this last Monday: if you compare this group with the group that is now working under the new duty regime, then that is apples compared to pears. Because that group has to work longer and therefore builds up more pension. So you compare apples with pears when it comes to retirement. So I answer Mr Öztürk's question: yes, we have fully compensated the AOW gap. But the discussion that is now under way is quite a different one. I have said, as a result of the card campaign that I brought with me from Mrs Karabulut, that I always want to look at individual poignant cases. That's what I've been discussing with the initiator. I have also said to the Chamber that I will talk again as soon as I can, also because of covid, to see which aspects are still there. Mr Van Helvert's question was why I did not recommend Mr Kerstens' motion. Mr Kerstens immediately made the suggestion of a committee. I said that I do not know whether a committee is the solution. My commitment is that I will also look at the individual cases, but I have given to the Chamber that I am not going to extend the Umm to the retirement age. That is another discussion. That is a question which I do not think the Chamber is right to compare with the group covered by the new time-limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u227	We have taken into account the fact that some of the issues were discussed last Monday in the planning of the time for this debate. May I remind you of that? Otherwise, we would have had to spend all day on the defence budget, and we didn't do that. So I'd like a brief, decisive interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u228	I'm definitely gonna do that. The Secretary of State stated on Monday and now again that she is willing to look at individual situations. Can she imagine that there is a moment when there is actually no longer any question of individual situations because the amount is so large that you have to talk about a group, which you might have to deal with in a different way, even if it is only for practical reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u229	But I have also indicated to you that it depends on what those individual cases are. So that's why I want to judge them. You asked me if I'm willing to move the Ugm to retirement age. That is how I understood the question of the initiator. To give you clarity, because I think that is also my responsibility: I am not going to do that. I also think that this is important as a framework in the front. But I have also indicated that I always want to look at it when there are people who, for several reasons, would come under a certain limit individually because they are just between shore and ship due to different regulations. But to immediately set up a committee to look at that generic again... I want to know the problem first, then I can also look at individual solutions. That's it for the AOW-hole. I would now like to look at a number of individual questions that have been asked. I have just said something to Mr Van Helvert about the 30 days. Mrs Karabulut had asked whether more soldiers and civilians were pouring in or out during the Corona period and what the balance was. We see that the influx of both civilians and soldiers is higher than the outflux. So that's a good thing. There may be several reasons for this, of course also uncertainty due to the current covid pandemic when it comes to your work. But the working conditions agreement can also be a reason. In that agreement on terms of employment, we gave security to all phase 2 soldiers that their contract would be renewed. That could also be a reason for military personnel to stay more. So I can't exactly explain why that outflow went down, but these could be possible explanations. And as I said at an interruption to Mr Voordewind, we also see that companies are actively reporting to us and reporting: we have employees; we know that you are looking. That's mainly in the maritime domain. When it comes to technicians and the like, we are actually making agreements now to see what we can do about it. Mr Van Helvert also asked about training in covid time. We have continued training as far as possible over the past period, in accordance with the RIVM guidelines, but also with the ability of commanders to consider individually how they take precautionary measures. Of course, this means that we are lagging behind in some areas, but we have also done a great deal about distance learning. This has also led to immediate renewal. In doing so, the crisis has also led to educational renewal, which we will continue to do. Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Helvert asked about the personnel readiness in the Navy and about the measures taken. We talked about that on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u230	We're not gonna do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u231	Exactly. Mr Voordewind pointed out that cooperation was needed to increase this readiness. I just went into that. Mr Van den Bosch asked about the reserveists. That's what we talked about last Monday. We see that we have achieved 20% growth in the last period. We also see that there is an absolute need for this and we also see that the reservists themselves are making a very strong call. The Defence Vision also states that we want to move towards greater scalability, as the Minister just pointed out. That means that also reservists are part of that. One of the issues involved in the discussion about a new staff model is that these are now two different positions, including legislative ones. Couldn't you look at that, even when it comes to the facilities available in the Department of Defense's healthcare system? Can reservists claim that, too yes or too no? It's all things that are involved. As far as I'm concerned, we're all lifting these special positions, and we're just all military. This is one of the things that is involved in both the personnel model and how you want to shape it and the position of the reserveists in it. Mr Van den Bosch also asked about the Defence College. That started from reservists. It is a very nice initiative, in which university students are currently doing a side job at the Department of Defense. That started small at Leiden University, but now we have more than 2,000 applications per year. That indicates what the involvement is like. There's a lot of students who never thought about DOD, but they can do things because of it. Students from Delft University of Technology, for example, can join the RAS unit in Oirschot, where they also see things in practice. It is precisely because of this success that we have increased the number of places. We started with 100 and we've now gone to 200 for the universities. On Mr Van den Bosch's question to the HBO, I say yes. We have recently done a test with HBO settings with the genius unit to see if we could apply the Defence College concept there. That was a positive experience and we want to extend it now, where we want to grow from 20 working students in the trial to 100 students in 2022. That will be something different than for the university, because of course the teaching program is also different. We are now talking to HBO institutions to see if there are more opportunities to work together, including in their training offerings. So yes, we do. Another great initiative within the framework of Defence College is the gap year, so students who choose to quit their studies. Over the past period we have done a test at the Air Force, in which they could do such a gap year, as it is called in beautiful Dutch, with the Air Force. That has also been successful and we want to see how we can further shape it. There are also financial consequences, so each time we choose what we do, but we see that there is a lot of that and that we mainly find people who do not normally enter or think about it so much. In terms of diversity and inclusiveness, I say that 50% of the working students are women, to give you an image. The minister just indicated the current figures. This indicates the human resources you have. 97% of the Defence College students will continue to be associated with Defense, as a citizen, as a military or as a reservist. That shows what the success rate is. Mr Van den Bosch also asked for improvements in recruitment and selection, especially in the inspection process. We'll see if we can employ psychologists and work together. So many things are being done in this context and the experience is positive. Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen asked about diversity. Mr Öztürk just asked about this. Can you not only reach more women? The Minister has just looked at the actual figures "but also young people with a different background"? So do we. Together with the police we provide information in schools and neighbourhood centres in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Lelystad. We will not then be in competition, but we will knowingly jointly inform the security sector about the possibilities of working within the Defence Department or the police. Mrs Belhaj has also drawn attention to this on several occasions in her previous contributions. At these meetings we actively connect with the young people. However, as you know and as the Minister has just indicated, we cannot register on ethnicity. So neither do we. We are also working on the programme Social Service Time. We also reach a number of young people who we normally do not reach. This also offers opportunities to ensure that people, especially young people, get in touch with and get a picture of Defence. I hear the Minister say 'covid'; indeed, with covid it has been shut down for a while. But these are all programs that allow us to reach young people that we would not normally reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u232	I find it very interesting that information is being provided, but that is the normal thing. Defence has also signed the Charter Diversity and this is part of it. But I'm talking about extra efforts. I've had a lot of work visits lately and I've spoken to dozens or maybe hundreds of soldiers. You just see the percentages are low. More women in the Defense Department are using extra money and resources and more effort is being made. That programme has been extended. That is good, and we support it. But you could also extend this to people with different ethnic backgrounds, couldn't you? I hear there's a couple of briefing nights going on with the police, but you're not gonna be okay with that. Do you have a plan or do you want to make a plan to target more people with a different ethnic background?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u233	We have that plan. We also report on this in the staff report. That's the program Diversity and Inclusiveness. In doing so, we have drawn up seven roadmaps. So that's wider than just women or wider than just ethnic groups. I mentioned a number of examples of visible presence. This year everything is different by covid, but we have stood for example at the Kwaku Festival and recruited there very purposefully. We are also working to ensure that our recruiters are more aware of diversity and are therefore also recruiting differently. We also take this into account in our career paths. In the personnel report, I report on that. You can see the progress there. And this is aimed not only at women, but also at people with different ethnic backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u234	Well, that's the recruitment. Then you also have the preservation of people who are already there. Culture change is also very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u235	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u236	And then we have example functions. A number of exemplary functions have also been created for more women in the Defense Department. This shows you: look, you can also flow to that position. That's what I mean when I say you have a targeted plan of action. You have to say, we're in the middle of a culture change, so you can feel happy, and when you come to us, you can make a career. Do we have a plan for that? That's the point. I don't mean the big plan with all the diversity, but a focused plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u237	As I just said, we have a targeted programme to ensure that we become more diverse and inclusive. I cannot, of course, predict who will be assigned to the higher positions. But we didn't say for nothing that we want to look at that, at both the Management Development and the recruiters. That's what I meant by that example of recruitment. You need to look elsewhere, but you also need to make your recruiters aware of diversity differences, whether it's man or woman or some other ethnic background. And at Management Development, too, we need to make sure that we look differently. We shouldn't have the steady pattern of white men over 45, so to speak. We also need to make that more diverse. We know that people often choose the people that look like them. If you want to change that, you have to make sure that you also include people who are going to judge differently in the Management Development program. I don't know if that's gonna get someone into a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u238	It's a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u239	With more women in Defense or more women in other places we have targets. We work with targets to show that we want to achieve those goals. Is the Secretary of State prepared to mention targets of how diverse she wants to get the staff in a year, or in two or three years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u240	We also have no targets for women. We don't have any. You want to end up getting the best people in the best place, and whether that's a man or a woman or someone with a different background, doesn't matter. But we are aware that mechanisms in the organisation need to change, indeed in recruitment and preservation. We have this roadmap to make people aware that there are differences and that you must appreciate them. That is why, for example, we have explicitly invested in safety. It has not been mentioned very much in your contribution, but we have discussed it several times in the Chamber over the past period. Social security is essential if you want to talk about people feeling free to say what they want, but also to be who they are. Then this is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u241	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u242	Then I shall proceed to Turkish conscription, which Mr Fritsma has also asked questions about. He was talking about loyalty. Dutch soldiers with Turkish backgrounds are loyal to Defense. That's what we're asking them to do. If they are appointed to us, we ask them to do so. I have recently been allowed to speak with a number of Dutch soldiers with a Turkish background. They're very proud to be working for the Dutch Defense Department. They feel connected, too. They're proud of their work. I think Mr Fritsma is proud of that, too. You ask: how many people have had an interest-free loan over the past period? Over the last 20 years, this has been around 40, especially in the period from 2006 to 2012. Since 2013, six employees have made use of it. So you can see that those numbers are decreasing, too. You also ask: do you have an insight into the callability? No, we don't, because we don't register the double nationality. So we can't see how that happens either. What we're registering is the interest-free loan. Following the motions of the Chamber, which have also been adopted, this has also been discussed with the power stations, because the Court has indicated that it wants to get rid of these loans. But in any case, this subject is being discussed with the power stations and we have not yet got out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u243	That was the whole package of Turkish service? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u244	Those are very worrying answers. First of all, loans were granted to Turkish-Dutch soldiers to buy off Turkish service. This means that Dutch taxpayers' money is being used for the Turkish army. The Secretary of State must understand that that is absolutely unacceptable. We know what Erdogan and the Turkish army are doing, don't we? We know about the links with IS, the aggression against Greece, the aggression against Armenia. Then you're not gonna use Dutch taxpayers' money to help that army, are you? That's too crazy for words, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u245	As I have just said, six of these loans have been granted since 2013. The military we're talking about, working at the Defense Department, are soldiers who have committed themselves to the Netherlands. So the statements you just made are for your own account. The military are the Dutch military, with a Turkish background they feel committed to the Dutch Defence and are also committed to this. They've been helped with this loan in the past. The Chamber has also made statements on this matter. That is what I have been working on, but I have to give you back that I have not yet come to an agreement with the power stations. That's how the mechanism works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u246	I think this is a very important point: that money, which simply goes to the Turkish army. But there is an even more worrying point. Madam Secretary of State says they are committed to the Dutch army. That's half the truth. They also had to fulfil the Turkish military service, or the shortened version, and they had to swear allegiance to Turkey. In fact, they can be called up to the age of 45 by Erdogan's army. You say "they're loyal to Defense," but you step over all the problems. In a moment, we have a situation in which Erdogan may call these Dutch soldiers for the Turkish army, because they also have Turkish nationality. Do you really not understand that it is too insane for words that Dutch soldiers may have to fight for the Turkish army, knowing what Erdogan is doing, knowing what the Turkish army is doing? The Secretary of State can't get past this, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u247	Thank you, your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u248	I think it is quite clear that we have committed ourselves to abolishing this interest-free loan, and I would like to give Mr Fritsma: this is a loan, so this will be repaid. So the money comes back, too. I say this in order to correct that in Mr Fritsma's contribution. I have indicated to you that these soldiers feel committed to the Netherlands. That is also the country for which they want to be deployed. I have no reason to doubt their loyalty. The discussion about Erdogan, I think, is also taking place with the Foreign Minister. I told you how many people made use of the interest-free loan scheme. I have also indicated that these loans are simply repaid and that we are committed to abolishing them, but that is the subject of discussion with the power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u249	Finally, a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u250	I want an answer to my question. The Secretary of State says those soldiers are committed to the Dutch army. That's half the story. These people have also sworn allegiance to the Turkish army. These people are even appealing to Erdogan's army. Surely the Secretary of State cannot insist that it is a desirable situation for Dutch soldiers to be called upon to fight in Erdogan's Turkish army. That's too insane for words. You're gonna step over it. They're loyal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u251	Thank you. This was your short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u252	But you still haven't answered and I do want an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u253	You're indicating a theorem. You're saying it's a fact right now. I think I just indicated to you that we have tried several times from the Netherlands to abolish Turkish service for our soldiers with a Turkish background. Unfortunately, that didn't work out. That is the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u254	Mr. Fritsma, don't get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u255	I would like to inform Mr Fritsma, through the chairman, that we would like them not to be on call. We have tried to change that system, but it has not succeeded. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u256	Thank you. Mr. Fritsma, you have another interruption. You can put your interruption in immediately. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u257	"It didn't work." The Secretary of State answered four times to say that. So now we have the situation that Dutch soldiers are on call for Erdogan's Turkish army. We all know what the Turkish army is doing. We all know what Erdogan's doing. Surely it is too insane for words that some of the Dutch army will soon be able to be called away by Erdogan to fight for Turkey? You have already exceeded four deadlines for replying, but I would like to hear from you now that this is totally unacceptable and that we are not going to do this anymore. We must then talk about dual nationality, but you must start by stating that this is a totally unacceptable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u258	I think I have answered this question and I am speaking about my own words. I have indicated that we want this to be different and that it has not been possible to do so until now. So I have answered your question and I am going to say my own words through the President to Mr Fritsma. In view of the time, I would also like to move on to another subject. That's chromium-6. We have actually talked about this in several ways last Monday. Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Karabulut once again drew attention to this. As I indicated in the legislative consultation last Monday, I recognise the emotion of the former employees of the POMS locations. Mrs Karabulut also organized a session in Kerkrade. During the last period in which I am Secretary of State, I have also been to people's homes to have conversations. Either way, that's impressive. People have worked for the Defense Department, feel connected to the Defense Department and are still actually proud of their work at the Defense Department. We have violated our duty of care. That's what I pointed out to the Chamber and to these people. We have put in place a system for this purpose. Together with the power stations, we have looked at how we can design a low-threshold scheme that is decent, quick to deploy and provide an input based on RIVM research. That has become the rule as it is now. I think Mrs Karabulut has tabled an amendment asking for a different arrangement. Mrs. Karabulut shakes no. She tabled a motion last Monday asking for a different regulation. We have also had a debate on what this other kind of arrangement is. In the end, the scheme applies, of course, to health-care violations at work through exposure to chromium-6. Mrs Karabulut wants a broader regulation, but this also requires that you have frameworks on which you can base yourself. Otherwise, you're gonna get random. We also discussed in last Monday's debate the way in which you are implementing this. I also made a commitment to Mrs Karabulut to put a number of questions to the RIVM. A number of other MPs, including Mr Van Helvert, also asked about the POMS locations: is that so unique? Mr Van Helvert said: yes, I think so. I indicated last Monday that this will probably not be the distinctive feature of a scheme for the POMS locations, and I am now indicating that. But I'm willing to see if it could be on any ground. I understand your room's question. Last Monday, the Heerts Committee was discussed several times, and I am prepared to see whether the principles of this regulation also comply with the ideas of the Heerts Committee and what is now on paper, which Mr Bruno Bruins as a scout is now working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u259	I get the feeling that we are repeating part of last Monday's debate, but Mrs Karabulut has two more questions, so she can ask them. Your first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u260	Mr President, this is an addition to a, it seems, unfortunately neverending story. That's how you see it. I did not submit the amendment, but I prepared it. We'll go on to that. The Secretary of State has just said that the contradiction between large equipment and staff is unjustified. My party believes that we should not participate in permanent warfare in the highest spectrum of violence. But that contradiction is true here. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u261	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u262	Mrs Karabulut, your last question in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u263	It is unprecedented that these workers, who really are at the base, have been fighting for justice for decades, but have not yet. On the one hand, a material fund is being filled with 45 billion for very expensive fighter jets, but on the other hand, the Secretary of State is going back to bureaucracy and rules for these people. We will continue and I am curious to see what the Secretary of State comes up with, but I suspect and fear that it will take too long. Finally, Mr President, I would therefore like to present one specific case to the Secretary of State. That's Anita's case. The Secretary of State spoke to her, just like I did. Anita suffers from an autoimmune disease, partly due to working on the POMS site in Eygelshoven. She has submitted to a committee that has contributed to her illness and that has been endorsed by a doctor. And yet she was strongly rejected, because two committee members looked at the request and did not consider it credible enough. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at this case? But can the Secretary of State also promise us that, very soon, in the weeks that remain for Christmas and Christmas, she will work on this supplementary arrangement to ensure justice for all these workers? I have here a list of workers from POMS location Eygelshoven, half of whom have already died. The other half waits for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u264	As you know, it's not about individual cases here. The Chamber may, of course, do so, but I do not think it is appropriate for privacy reasons to deal with individual cases in this Chamber. However, as Mrs Karabulut knows and as I indicated last Monday, you have to rely on something for a generic regulation. We're looking at individual cases. To this end, the claims that an individual can submit apply. For generic schemes, you have to rely on something. We have based ourselves on RIVM research, i.e. on science, as well as on the frameworks that are widely applicable in the Netherlands, which have been established in this Chamber and which see causality. I'm talking about exposure to that dangerous substance. Mrs Karabulut knows that these are the frameworks we are sticking to now. Mrs Belhaj has tabled a motion and asked: what would it mean if you set up these frameworks differently, not only for Defence, but also for the entire government and all employers in the Netherlands? This isn't just about defense anymore. I am basing myself on the frameworks that exist. I said I was going to ask Mrs Karabulut's question to RIVM. I'm not talking about answering the RIVM. RIVM is going to try to answer it before Christmas. I don't know what's coming out of it. It depends on what comes out of it. I am sure that Mrs Karabulut and I will be speaking on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u265	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u266	I think that was the block of staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u267	I have another question from GroenLinks about HIV and AIDS. The question is whether there is special attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u268	We didn't pay special attention to that with the DOD last time. That was the question, wasn't it, Mr. Van den Nieuwenhuijzen? No? Then I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u269	He can repeat the question himself; I will not do that for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u270	No, my question wasn't whether you did anything with World Aids Day. It was World Aids Day last Tuesday. I invited you to think about it and take us with you in how you take care of Defense personnel who are HIV-positive or untectable. How do they have a place within the Defense Organization? Just on World Aids Day we like to think about these people and what they run into. So it was an open invitation to you to take us into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u271	For this, too, we do not register this. This is, of course, a matter of medical confidentiality. So I can't take you with me in a generic sense. What I can say in general terms is that at least we are investing strongly in our military health care. We're trying to make sure that that's generic, that people, regardless of their illness, feel at home within the Defense Department and that they can do their job. But I don't know if this is an answer to the question. I do not think that is entirely the case, because I see Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen shaking no. But I can't say anymore about it because of medical confidentiality, like I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u272	Fine. Then proceed with the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u273	Then we go to the funds as included in the Defence Note. There has been considerable investment in equipment projects, real estate and IT over the past period. Next week we have a debate on a major IT project, namely the renewal of our IT infrastructure. This is an important innovation, which hopefully will be able to continue this period after approval and discussion with the Chamber. Of the 100 projects that we are currently carrying out, about half of them have been speeded up or added by the additional resources from the Defence Note. This shows what investment power has been deployed during this period. We sent 41 A letters in 2018 and 2019. This means a start to a new material acquisition project, real estate project or IT project. This year, 2020, 15 more will be sent to your Chamber. So you have already received a number of letters, but in December you will receive some from me. This shows that our investment ratio has increased to 24%. This indicates where we came from, from below or around 16% a few years ago to 24% now. Of course, this is extremely important for our strength of action and therefore for the actions of our people. They can then operate safely with the greatest possible chance of survival that we can offer them. You need good force to defend yourself. Of course, we sometimes have delays. We have talked about this very strongly over the last few months. In the Defence Project Overview we see that 30% of the projects we are doing now are delayed, but that was 45% in 2016. I'm still not satisfied, but it does show that we're improving on that. As I said earlier, we have invested heavily in real estate over the past period. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen has asked several times about this, but also Mrs Belhaj, for example when it comes to sustainability. At present, 218 of the 295 alloy buildings are being improved. In addition, we also do the clothes. Mr Van der Nieuwenhuijzen asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u274	Of the Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u275	Sorry, Chairman. He asked when the interdepartmental policy research real estate will come. That's gonna be June 2021. I hope to be able to send that to the Chamber. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen has asked for attention on several occasions in debates and also in the vision that has been presented to put the real estate portfolio in order: how do you take care of that? I've made it clear what the deficits are. They're heavy, apart from the sustainability issue that's there, but we've started. At the Prince Bernhardkazerne in Amersfoort, which you also received a letter about, we are not only going to tackle the whole complex but also to see if together with the environment we can make more sustainable and create new coalitions, also in order to be able to work directly there. I think that Mrs Belhaj will also look at it in the light of her own initiative paper with a special eye. We'll see if that can be rolled out wider within the Defense Department and if we can learn things from it. This ibo research will provide insight into how the property portfolio can be made healthy in the long term and what choices can be made. As Mrs Belhaj has said on several occasions, this is also important if you want to make choices for the future in which you have to invest. The ibo research will also be able to give you input for that. The minister started her introduction that we have invested heavily in modernisation and reinforcement, whether it is the F-35 or the modernisation of the Apache helicopters and the CV90s. There are many projects that have also been fortunately adopted by the Chamber in recent months and in which we invest. As you know, the same applies to submarines, which have been questioned by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. Mr Stoffer has also drawn attention to this on several occasions. I think it's good to see... I always notice... On the M-frigates, we sent a B-letter, and then I never hear the Chamber say, "No decision has been taken." In the case of submarines, there is always a different view, namely that no decision has been taken. But I can tell you that a B letter has also been sent to your Chamber in which a decision has just been taken on submarines, namely four submarines of the B variant, which we are going to acquire in competition. We are of course doing so with the utmost involvement of the Dutch industry. Here too, it is important to ensure that we reach a decision in 2022 as soon as possible, so that the first submarine can be launched in 2028. I took the room in the covids. We are doing everything we can to ensure that this project is not delayed, but I cannot vouch for the impact this can have on this. As I have pointed out to the Chamber, strategic autonomy and national security are essential and are taken into account in the further process of the D letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u276	Yes, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u277	I actually thought we'd talked enough about the submarines on Monday, but it's going to come up anyway. The Secretary of State states that as much Dutch involvement as possible is important, but of course it is also about strategic autonomy. Does the Secretary of State confirm that it is also about strategic autonomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u278	Those were just my last words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u279	Look, that's when I was looking at, "Shall I ask about it or not?" Thank you for that answer, which was given before my question came. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u280	Mr Van Helvert specifically asked for it; that is why I went into it for a moment. Mr Fritsma didn't actually ask questions, but he was worried about the F-35 last Monday. But I will not repeat that debate here. Mr Van den Bosch asked about international cooperation. The Minister has already said something about this in a broad sense. Of course, in the case of material acquisition, too, we see a lot of things happening in Europe. The Minister discussed the European projects under way and the possibilities for cooperation. I am talking to my German colleague once in the six months to see if there are some replacement projects coming where we can work together and where it is also important that we express our intention to work together on a number of projects, to give a signal, as the Netherlands and Germany, to the industry that we think it is important to work together. I think that on that basis the industry, whether it is from the Dutch side or from the German side, gets the signal: if you see that the Netherlands and Germany are working together on certain maritime projects, ICT projects or other projects and you want to benefit from them, then you have to engage in that cooperation. But, of course, here too, we are working together with the Secretary of State for EZK to see what opportunities this offers. I see Mr Van Helvert getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u281	No, we're not gonna invite. Then that's what you're gonna get. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u282	I specifically asked what we could do with export opportunities. Look, what we want is for the Dutch business community to have a big role. If you include in the award of the submarine the extent to which there are export opportunities for the Dutch business community, you will get to the supplier who does the most for the Dutch business community. Can we include these export opportunities in the award criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u283	This is a repeat of last Monday's debate. First of all, I would like to outline a more general context in which to respond to Mr Van Helvert. We no longer have a self-creating submarine industry in the Netherlands. That is why we chose to ask out several foreign yards a few years ago. So there is no Dutch main contractor to make the translation. What we have said, as a cabinet, is that it is essential, in the context of Mr Stoffer's question on strategic autonomy and the National Security Plan, to be able to do the interview itself. Also in the Walrus class we have noticed that this is essential. There are all kinds of technological developments, and you also want to be able to adapt things when it comes to your IT systems and your sensor capacity. That way I can name a whole laundry list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u284	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u285	I'm not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. That's essential. That means that when it comes to export opportunities, I am not going to make a ruling on the award criteria. I have already said in the B letter that I am attached to it, and I am not going to do that in this Chamber. But I did say that, and that is not for nothing in the B-letter: as much Dutch involvement as possible. But that is mainly in the maintenance of the strategic autonomy. But that will have to be asked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u286	Mr Van Helvert. Don't repeat last Monday's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u287	No, that's why I'll bring in some news. With what the cabinet should not say, the Secretary of State begins: we do not have a self-creating submarine industry. Do we have a company that can make a submarine all by itself? No, we don't. But we also don't have a company in the Netherlands that can make a frigate all by itself. We also buy things for them in Germany and in France and on the other side of the world. That is why my question was Monday: will the Secretary of State even ask the Dutch business community if it can do so? Would you like to ask IHC: could you be and want to be that main contractor, where you obviously need foreign companies? Would the Secretary of State ever ask Damen in Vlissingen, Huisman Equipment in Schiedam? Maybe they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u288	I replied on Monday: if I am going to do that, I am going to stop the whole tender. Because it is not for nothing that we asked this question a few years ago. We looked at whether there was a Dutch builder making full submarines, but there was no submarines. That's why we ended up talking to four foreign parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u289	Thank you. If you said that on Monday, you won't have to do it again. Mr. Van Helvert, we're not going to repeat last Monday's debate, we don't have time for that today. A short word? Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u290	As I said, we choose the best boat for the best price, with as much Dutch involvement as possible. Mr Voordewind asked for the radar station in Herwijnen, following last Monday's discussion, which he could not attend. As I said on Monday, I started a state coordination scheme for a reason, because I cannot vouch for the radars as they are now. In Wier the station is now replaced, but in Nieuw-Miligen it is still there. We have indicated why we think that is not the right location. Of course, there was also another interest: the energy needs on land and the wind farms that play a role in this. Alternative locations have been investigated. I also informed you about this earlier this year, on 6 February 2020. On that basis it emerged that there are actually not many more suitable locations. There are three more locations, but they're not necessarily better than Herwijnen. They're similar to Herwijnen. Following Mr Voordewind's motion, I once again explicitly asked the two municipalities concerned: are you prepared to cooperate if we were to move from Herwijnen to this location, apart from all kinds of other matters that are involved? The answer to that was no. That's what I told the Chamber. The alternatives have therefore been examined and mapped out for the Chamber. The state coordination system is, of course, running at the moment. It is also important that it continues, on the one hand, because of national security interests and, on the other hand, because of the assignment for energy on land in Flevoland. Two wind farms need to be built and that is waiting for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u291	We have indeed tabled motions on alternatives. The Secretary of State says the alternatives have been investigated and the alternative locations are as suitable as Herwijnen. But what the Secretary of State doesn't say is that the cumulative radiation effects compared to the other locations have not been taken into account. We know that Herwijnen has a KNMI radar, is suffering from the radiation from shipping and so on. That aspect was not taken into account at the time. Hence my question in the first term. Why didn't you take it back then? 'Cause if you're gonna ask "you want that radar," then all the mayors will say, "No, I'd rather not." It was about the cumulative radiation compared to Herwines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u292	No, the question of the Chamber, and also of the First Chamber, in September 2019 was: look at alternative locations. Are there similar locations when it comes to coverage? That was the question for the alternative research and I returned it to the Chamber. Are there any locations that provide similar radar coverage? Because that's essential. We have a radar in Wier and we need another one to protect Limburg, Brabant, Zeeland, Zuid-Holland, Noord-Holland and part of Flevoland and to do air defense. That was the assignment and that is how the alternative research was carried out. Of course, wherever you place a radar, no matter what you do around non-ionizing radiation, you have to comply with the guidelines. So that goes for me, too. These are international directives: the ICNIRP directives. In response to the request made by the Chamber, I looked not only at the radiation from the radar, but also at the composite radiation. Mr Voordewind asked: what is the radiation of the KNMI radar or of shipping, navigation? That's 0.10 in staring mode and also in rotating mode. That's what I gave the Chamber. It's 1.15 on the navigation radar in staring mode and rotating mode. The composite radiation will vary from location to location throughout the Netherlands, because these things, mobile phones, Wi-Fi and routers, give a lot of radiation. So it will vary from location to location. It is likely to be many times higher in urban areas than in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u293	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u294	So it's different from one location to another. But if Mr Voordewind asks to see what the composite radiation would be at those three alternative locations, then I would be happy to answer that question. I think I said the same thing last Monday. But I have also indicated that the National Coordination Scheme for Rewines is going ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u295	The accessibility may be the same, but of course it was not just about accessibility. It was also about health, the cumulative radiation and how close the population is to radar. Those elements were not taken and that was my point. The Secretary of State says she's quite willing to take that with her. We need to see what we do in the second term, because there's a motion. But then I would also ask her to take the height of the radar, because that can also provide additional protection for the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u296	Mrs Belhaj has also tabled a motion on this subject. We were gonna look into that. But I do think it is important to stress that we simply have to comply with the directives that exist. Those are the ICNIRP standards and we meet them. If the Chamber wants stricter standards, they apply not only to the defence industry but also to everything else, including mobile phones and, in fact, to everything in the Netherlands. In my view, that is another discussion which the Chamber should be holding. I would like to inform Mr Voordewind that the municipalities where the alternative locations are have also indicated in writing that they are not prepared to cooperate. If they are not prepared to cooperate, then you also have the National Coordination Scheme to follow. In Herwijnen, the criticism was that the state coordination scheme was used. I would also like to tell your Chamber that as long as there is uncertainty as to where the radar is going to be, I know that Mr Fritsma is very happy about this. So that means that a lot of these projects will simply be stopped at that time. I see Mr Fritsma smiling, but I know that a number of other Members of this Chamber think differently. So I'll tell those who have tabled a motion on alternative locations that this has immediate consequences. Because as long as alternative locations are being looked at, despite the state coordination regime, Defence will not be able to express any objections to numerous windmill initiatives. That is, of course, also for the assessment of the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u297	I think you're getting a little close to the end of your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u298	Yes, then there was Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen's question about the naming of the frigates that are being replaced: are we prepared to name them after women? You indicated yourself: Francien de Zeeuw. You also mentioned a number of other examples. And if we're gonna ask people, I'm sure we'll get other suggestions. I also got all kinds of suggestions for possible names on Twitter. You know that the Navy has a tradition committee, which is always looking into this matter and who draws up an opinion that goes through the Commander of the Armed Forces to the King, who ultimately takes a decision on it. That is the procedure we have agreed on, but of course we will make the suggestion that has been made, also by Mr Bosman in the past. In any case, therefore, we will give a positive signal to the Committee on Tradition to think about this. But, of course, they will have to decide for themselves. Mr Kerstens now says that there are only men on that committee. I honestly do not know, but I think it is a good suggestion to bring this to the fore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u299	For the viewers: Mrs Francien de Leeuw was a Dutch resistance fighter and the first female soldier in our armed forces. There is already a street named after her, but nothing that sails on or underwater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u300	A Tradition Committee is very nice, but the question is indeed whether there are men and women in it. For until now they have come up with names of places, animals and men. If that's the tradition within the Defense Department, it should be upgraded. I'm glad you embraced that at least. But I think it is important that the people who make the choice think about how they come to a more inclusive tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u301	That's a clear call. I told you, I'll pass it on. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something about the way in which the administration operates. No specific question has been asked about this, but it is important because it is related to the staff, which we have explicitly spoken about. In reply to Mrs Belhaj, I indicated that the mode of administration is an important reason for people to leave the organisation. This has to do with the feeling that there is no room in terms of mandates, powers and bureaucracy. That is why I want to say something about these controls. This concerns in particular the question of which mandates and powers are decentralised. Well, we've laid down more mandates and powers decentrally over the past period, but it's also about cooperation with other parties outside of Defense. How, for example, in the maritime sector can you ensure that you work with industry but also with schools, in order to create a different environment where there will be more space? I do not want to mention all these examples because of time, but an important fact is that there has been considerable investment in these ways in the past period. I see a great deal of enthusiasm from that, because employees feel that they themselves can give substance to their own environment and actually achieve results with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u302	Thank you. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u303	I would like to come back to exports of submarines. I also asked that question in the first instance of the budgetary procedure. This is not something I said on Monday; this is something I said at first. That's why I'm coming back to it now. The Secretary of State says: I can't actually ask these companies if they can, because we're in these tendering procedures and we can't. I don't really agree with the Secretary of State. We're in B-phase. It means you're turning off a question for information. In asking for information, the Ministry of Defence also makes the letter very clear: pay attention, you cannot derive any rights from this request for information. It's like you want to buy a new car and ask: can I take a test drive? Then you can return the car and do nothing with it, or go through with it. You can still do things in that B phase. My question is: is the Secretary of State prepared to ask, for example, IHC, Damen, Huisman or other companies if they can do so at all? Because I think the companies can do it if you ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u304	To be honest, I do not know what Mr Van Helvert's question is. I just indicated that when we started this project, this tender, we looked into whether a Dutch party could build that submarine. The answer to that was no. I have sent you a B letter stating that we are going for the best boat for the best price with as much Dutch involvement as possible. I have just indicated in the debate, and also on Monday towards Mr Stoffer, that we are also making the most of the Dutch commitment. My comment was just meant to point out that in an ongoing tender I cannot mention a criterion in public, because I am then directly attached to it. I do not think that the Court should make any specific suggestions as to what criterion is contained in the programme of demands. Because in the end, it's about the best boat. That is what our men and women should be sailing with, so I would like to leave that to that particular expertise. Of course, we are always looking at this together with EZK, which is already the policy of how we can increase further export opportunities, in general terms, not only in the context of submarines. That's what I'm talking about. I do not want to give the impression that it is a specific criterion or whatever. But it is also the responsibility of Economic Affairs to then shape that initial participation. We always do that after the award. Then you know which party is allowed to carry out the assignment and it is also exploited as much as possible. That's my experience. In the Defence Industry Strategy, we have also shown over the past period that we have, above all, increased the involvement and commitment of SMEs by giving this support explicitly. There is also a willingness to facilitate this as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u305	Very briefly, Mr. Van Helvert, finally. Otherwise, you'll have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u306	Yeah, but I'm actually getting more and more worried right now. We constantly try the cabinet from the Chamber... We have also often built up with the VVD and the SGP to ensure that the Dutch business community is involved as much as possible. Now the Secretary of State always starts with: yes, but we do not have that self-creating industry. If you yell that often enough, everyone will believe it. That the cabinet with the DIS in its hand already chooses not to facilitate the self-creating industry, okay. But by shutting them out altogether or by actually making the Dutch industry available only the maintenance, we degrade our own industry and the opportunities we have. I therefore think that the cabinet should do this much more with Dutch business in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u307	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u308	In my view, Mr Van Helvert sketches a contradiction that I really do not recognize. With regard to the question about the Dutch main contractor, I have indicated to you that this cannot be done. That's what I've outlined. But I think that I have mentioned several times in the B-letter "B" that this is the best boat for the best price with as much Dutch involvement as possible. Why do we want to do that? Because of that strategic autonomy. And I also indicated earlier in the debate that if there had been a Dutch builder and if we had kept that industry, it would probably have been a completely different situation. Only, there isn't. That is not a degradation, because I am extremely proud of the Dutch industry. I think the Chamber is in a broad sense as well. That is why we want to involve them as much as possible in this further tender. But the way in which we do that still needs to be worked out. I would also like to ask the Chamber to leave this to the experts who have to ensure that we finally get a good boat for a good price with as much Dutch involvement as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u309	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then we have come to the end of the cabinet's response. I wanted to continue with the second term immediately. Then I would like to take a lunch break after the second term of the Chamber, so that the cabinet can quietly have time to give the motions an appreciation. 'Cause we're running out of time. Mr. Van Helvert, don't mess up my schedule right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u310	A point of order. In connection with corona, not all employees are there. So I have to print my own motions. I don't mind that at all and I love doing that, but that means I have to go to my room and walk back for a moment. So if you'd still like to suspend for a few minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u311	Yes. Then I'll suspend until 2:05 p.m. Run!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u312	The next item is the second term of office. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV. He has four more minutes, strictly speaking, but how happy his colleague from VWS will be if he gives her an extra minute! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u313	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank both directors for the answers they have given, even though it sometimes took a bit of trouble to get rid of those answers. There were some special moments during the debate. One particular moment I found the Minister's remark that she is not about border control. If you do have a debate on how best to use the resources and the people of Defence, you must of course also say that this is for border control rather than for missions to distant foreign countries, for example. The Minister must also have an opinion on this. Moreover, if Schengen collapses, and this can happen, given the statements made by the French President, Mr Macron, then this Minister must also be ready to monitor those borders. Then there must be soldiers at the border. Is this minister ready for that? And then, of course, you don't come up with the words: I'm not going over it. Then there's a motion on border guard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to use the defence effort to restore Dutch border controls so that Islamic terrorism can be kept out of the door and the Netherlands can decide for itself who allows it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u314	Mr. Chairman. The second motion speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to extend military surveillance of sites sensitive to terrorism to include at least the stations of the four major cities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u315	Mr. Chairman. Turkish military service is a major problem. The Secretary of State can say that the Turkish-Dutch military have no problem with it, but that is, of course, far too easy. Even if they are of good will, it does not take away the problems. These people have had to swear allegiance to the Turkish army during their conscription or shortened service. They're on call until they're 45 years old. So if Erdogan gets it on the hip, he can summon Dutch-Turkish soldiers and then the Secretary of State must say: yes, sorry, we lost part of the Dutch army because they have to fight for Erdogan against the Kurds, against Turkey or against Armenia. That's a completely insane situation. I can't imagine the cabinet finding this acceptable. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the possibility for defence workers to have another nationality alongside the Dutch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u316	As a follow-up: Dutch loans are also used to help the Turkish army. The Secretary of State says they have to be repaid, but that's too easy. Dutch loans are granted to Turkish-Dutch soldiers, who are used to buy off Turkish service. That is all very strange and unacceptable, but that money also ends up with the Turkish army. We know what the Turkish army is doing. It is therefore unacceptable for the Secretary of State to say: it does not happen often. Even if it was just a penny, it's unacceptable. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the practice of using loans granted by the Defence Department to the Turkish army's cashier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33570-X-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u317	I've done my best to stay within the time, Mr. Chairman, and I think I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u318	Thank you. Mr Van den Bosch is already warm. He would have ten minutes, strictly speaking. But don't do that to us! It is certainly not the last word that Mr Van den Bosch speaks in this Chamber, but it is true that it is his last budget. We enjoyed his speech. Go ahead for your second term, Mr. Van den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u319	Mr. Chairman. I'll know you in a minute. We've been going through something with each other, so as far as that goes... In any case, I can promise you that I have only one motion. Fortunately, we have submitted a few of them to the WHO. I support a few motions, but I'm not much of a motion. But the motions that I'm making are always very good. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a general comment. I don't think anyone's in this Chamber or in this country for war. When we see the events, these days on television and in the newspapers, we never want to see them again. I have a 94-year-old mother. She doesn't know much anymore, but when we start talking about the war, she always gets really emotional and stuff. That generation's been through something. It has been occupied for five years by the Germans and has experienced misery. You just never want to do that again. Some colleagues remind me of the time of the broken rifle, a movement that was present before World War II. My party believes that you should also have a good military force if you need a military force to defend the country and defend our values against people who want to attack it. Let me give you an example, very close. I would immediately like to express my thanks to all the women and men who always do that work for us. I'm gonna look at the Marechaussee that's gonna secure our building. They're gonna do that anyway. When I see them there, I don't have to think about them standing there with an old VW Beetle and a pop gun. There's no point in that. They must have the best weapons, the best cars and the best equipment to defend us. We hope it's never necessary, for them and for us, but that's how it is. That's what I wanted to say. I can talk about it for another 20 minutes, but I won't do that to you, Mr. President. I have one motion because I would like to hear a little more about it from the cabinet and the rulers. The Minister, but above all the Secretary of State, has said a lot about training, where we have to go, and that we have to do good things. My group is convinced that there is much more that can be done by the Defense Department. Because we live in 2020, and more needs to be done and a lot of good is happening. As you know, I made a plea to get 18-year-olds acquainted with the Defense Department. I called my wife yesterday and she said: what a great idea to let those 18-year-olds walk around a barracks for a day, that's the best way. I say to my colleagues: it is only nice that people from all circles, boys and certainly also girls, who often think that Defence is for men, can see that too, and that people from other groups can also walk around there. I think you should give them that chance. I shall leave it to the cabinet to do exactly that, because my motion does not go that far, which I am now going to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the importance of the work of and career opportunities in the Defense Department is not well known to a substantial proportion of Dutch youth;]] [[Considering that there are significant staff shortages in the defence sector and that wider awareness can also play a useful role in the enthusiasm of a wider part of society for a position in the defence sector;]] [[Whereas France has a daily programme for all 18-year-olds at a barracks;]] [[calls on the Government to map out the possibilities for such a day to be introduced into the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Bosch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u320	Mr. Chairman. I thank the cabinet, I thank the rulers for all the answers. A lot of them were very clear and I am satisfied with most of them, but there are still plenty of challenges. Mr President, this was my well-known contribution in quick words, in this case in three minutes, I believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u321	Thank you, Mr. Van den Bosch. Then I would ask Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen of GroenLinks for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the first-term response. Once again, I would also like to thank you very much for your commitment over the last few years to all those Ihbti people within the Defense Department. I'm proud to wear their keycord, which I have my card from the Chamber on. I'm really proud of what you've done for them. I welcome the Minister's commitment that autonomous weapons should always remain under meaningful human control. I'll hold you to that, too. I have also noted the commitment, which I would like to double check now, that we will continue to discuss the cyber domain in conjunction with a joint report. So I'd like to double-check that, because as far as I'm concerned, we're going to that cyber forces command, but until then, I think it's good to discuss that connection with each other. I have three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Court is only informed annually about the results and details of ongoing military missions, and that no operationally sensitive information can be shared;]] [[Whereas the Chamber would be better able to carry out its monitoring task with regard to ongoing missions if the Permanent Commission on Defence were to be more intensively briefed on important developments and results on ongoing missions;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to intensify the information received by the Chamber on ongoing missions, for example by means of confidential briefings to the Permanent Defence Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u323	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Defence Vision 2035 proposes to specialize the military force, but that no concrete form of specialisation is yet proposed;]] [[Whereas the proposals contained in the Broad Social Rethinking are useful for the future of Defence, but these proposals need further elaboration and, in addition, do not contain integrated specialization scenarios;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up scenarios for possible routes of specialisation of Defence within its international partnerships, and to submit these scenarios to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u324	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the proportion of women in military positions is increasing, but that there is still much room for growth and the tone from the top layer of Defense is important for the extent to which Defense appeals to women;]] [[noting that none of the current Navy ships are named after a woman;]] [[Whereas there are sufficiently inspiring women whose names, due to their commitment to the Netherlands, are very suitable for naming naval ships, such as the first female military Francien de Zeeuw and resistance heroine and knight in the Military Willems-Orde Josepha Gemmeke;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the authorities within the Ministry of Defence involved in the naming of naval ships that at least two of the newly acquired naval vessels, including frigates, are named after women of great importance to Dutch freedom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mr Van den Bosch, Mr Belhaj and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u325	I think it is very good that we get more diversity in the Navy and also change the names, but is GroenLinks also willing to go a step further? We now have two Navy ships, one of which is given a female name and one a multicultural name. We also have heroes of resistance from the past decades who have a multicultural name. I do not want to mention them who come from different regions and yet have served the Dutch cause and have died. Would it be an idea for GroenLinks to change the motion as follows: one of the two names a female name and one a multicultural name? This gives the recruitment of people with an ethnic background an incentive that makes you think: wow, this is a diverse, inclusive society!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u326	Thank you for your question. I think it belongs to brave women who have meant a lot to our freedom, women of all backgrounds. I notice there haven't been any women. I very much agree with your plea that within men's names and within women's names the origin should not make any difference. At the moment, my plea is: make sure that we also honor women on our ships. That seems important to me at the moment. I make two suggestions for that. That's the way I wanted it to be in my motion. As far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna need the uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, It is a tradition to include all women of all ethnic origins in its deliberations, just as when we come up with men's names again. That's always better than naming a ship after an animal or a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u327	Thank you. Briefly, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u328	GroenLinks then comes up with a multicultural list, but doesn't really want to take that step at the moment. That's the point every time. Take that step! It is very easy to say: let us take the names of people of multicultural origin or other ethnic origin who have fought for the Netherlands. Let's take the step in the Chamber there for once. This is the moment. You can now show that you really go for diversity and inclusiveness. I challenge you again to change that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u329	I think it could exist side by side. If you're going to file a motion for such a name, I'm going to put my name underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u330	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA, who has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u331	Madam President. Then I will at least start reading the motions, because the Limburg tongue trap is always a bit slower than the Randstadeelijke. That's why I'm gonna start reading the motions. Well, at least I've had it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Ministry of Defence has adopted a chromium-6 regime;]] [[Whereas POMS sites such as Eygelshoven may be so unique as compared to other locations in the Defense Department that it may be justified to make a separate arrangement only for former employees of the POMS sites;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee to examine this question and to give its opinion on it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u332	For a moment I thought Mr. Kerstens was startled! But this was tuned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, for each acquisition, Defense will consider the most appropriate strategy based on: best product for the best price with the highest possible involvement of the Dutch business community;]] [[Whereas the acquisition of new submarines not only offers opportunities for substantial involvement of the Dutch Golden Triangle in the design, construction, maintenance and maintenance of future Dutch submarines, but also creates export opportunities for the future;]] [[noting that the Defence Industry Strategy states that, because of the relatively small domestic market for defence and security products in the Netherlands, exports are essential for stimulating and maintaining the Dutch base defence-related companies;]] [[Whereas possible future exports of submarines would give additional impetus to the Dutch Navy Building Cluster;]] [[Calls on the Government to review the three suppliers for the most favourable export opportunities for the Dutch economy and to inform the Chamber of the summer recess of 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to fully support the Dutch Navy Building Cluster in its positioning in supply chain production, maintenance and development in order to benefit as much as possible from possible future exports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u333	My speaking time is up, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u334	Absolutely. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, who has one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u335	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in spring 2020 the Ministry of Defence issued a new version of Note SG A/978, "External Action, Media Contacts and Publications';]] [[Considers that this designation imposes too many restrictions on the rights of the military official because it is in bad faith to the military official in contact with the press and representatives of the people;]] [[invites the Government to withdraw the designation immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to refrain from participating in military exercises and by the Air Force in particular in practicing the use of a nuclear weapon, as this is contrary to the NPT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[requests the Government to have an independent investigation carried out in order to establish, or to exclude, that Dutch military personnel were indirectly or directly involved in, or were aware of, crimes committed by Australian or possibly Dutch military personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the deployment of the armed forces contributed to Dutch health care;]] [[considers that more priority should be given to the domestic task;]] [[calls on the government to review the level of ambition of the armed forces, with the other main tasks given a lower level of ambition and the third main task a higher,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-43]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-44]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-45]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u336	You did a good job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u337	I know!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u338	In a minute, Hoppatee. Then we'll go to Mrs. Belhaj. You have six minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u339	Mr. Chairman. I am going to use those six minutes extensively to reflect on my fellow defence spokesmen. That's a joke. It's up to the voters and the people who work for the Defense Department who've been watching us over the past few years. Mr. Chairman. Last Monday we had a legislative consultation. In that we talked about Herwijnen. I tabled a motion there, which I amended in conjunction with the Secretary of State. So I'm not going to read that motion right now. I do have a supplementary motion for today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is impossible for the Netherlands to address only all threats in the world, but it certainly requires international cooperation links;]] [[noting that the Netherlands currently does not specifically choose to address certain threats which best fit the profile of the Dutch armed forces;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the Defence Vision, to indicate how threats can best be addressed most effectively and in what context (national, bilateral, EU and NATO) in order to identify the threats that the Netherlands can best focus on in the context of the further development of the EU's strategic compass, and to inform the Chamber of developments and the Dutch commitment to the forthcoming strategic dialogue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u340	Finally, Mr President. In the more than four and a half years I've been a spokesperson for the Defense Department, a lot has happened. The Minister and the Secretary of State have also indicated this. I think it's very important that we don't slacken. There are, of course, a number of things that have been set up, but we also need to realise that we are not there yet. As far as D66 is concerned, attention must continue to be paid to some people who believe that threats remain for a healthy culture in the Defense Department and for a modern way in which the armed forces relate to society. So that's what the Chamber has to do. So no things that may be complicated should be actively untold; they do need to be actively told. Things can go wrong, but then be proactive in telling what didn't go well. Furthermore, I very, very much hope that this or the next Secretary of State will have good negotiations with the various trade unions, because I am really convinced that a lot of people working in the armed forces would like it if one last step were to be taken to ensure that they work not only with great pleasure and honour in Defence, but also in view of their paychecks: yes, it is nice that this is well arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u341	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Kerstens, who has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u342	That is quite reassuring in relation to the number of motions I have, Mr President. That's four, two for the Minister and two for the Secretary of State, and they're not too long. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Veteran Ombudsman has noted for several consecutive years that the way in which the defence is handled is likely to be improved and that there is still insufficient evidence of such improvement;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the recommendations made by the Veteran Ombudsman on these occasions are clearly improved in its next Complaint Monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a compensation scheme for widows and (later) children of men legally executed by the Dutch army at the time of Indonesia's struggle for independence was established after many years;]] [[noting, however, that hardly any widows and children are eligible for such a scheme, because of the unreasonable need to make a request to that effect, to which rightholders are not in fact able to comply;]] [[calls on the Government to act in the spirit of the compensation scheme and to delete or terminate the above requirement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the personnel shortage in the defence sector has been significant for several years, hampering the deployment of our armed forces;]] [[Whereas a clear "master plan" is desirable both in terms of increasing inflow and limiting outflow in relation to defence's future ambitions, making it clear what the necessary growth path is, what actions are being taken to that end and what means are needed and available;]] [[Calls on the Government to forward such a plan to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Belhaj and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-48]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Karabulut and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u343	The final motion was only signed by myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is spending a great deal of money on a work guarantee scheme to prevent unemployment of people who lose their jobs due to the corona crisis, by subsidising arrangements with which they can work in a sector where there is work, and that Defence is such a sector;]] [[Considering that this offers opportunities for defence in reducing its own staff shortages and that this provides a perspective for people who may otherwise become unemployed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, as soon as possible, the eligibility of defence for this arrangement and to inform the Court of Justice thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It should work in two minutes. Mr. Chairman. This is my last defense budget. I think I've had ten years as Defense spokesperson in this house. It is with great pleasure that I have worked with colleagues, and also with the various rulers, including these. But first of all, I would like to thank the military, who have also been working in the Netherlands for the past eight months with the hospitals and the test streets. There you see these men and women are hands-on. They can be deployed very quickly, and we have many thanks for that in recent months. But there is also, of course, thanks for men and women, although there are a lot less at this time, who have to do their job abroad, and stand up for peace and international law. I want to be the first to say that. Then I thank these rulers for the answers to my questions. I have co-signed a number of motions from colleagues. I would like to mention two of them explicitly: that of Mr Van Helvert, when it comes to alternative research into the radars that should be placed in Herwijnen, and Mr Stoffer's motion on the invitation to tender for the submarine. I have one more motion of my own. It's about readiness. This is an important priority for both directors. That is also reflected in the reply and also in the written reply. The Secretary of State has also dealt with this, but I would like to dwell on one aspect, by means of this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the restoration of readiness must be of the highest priority for our defence;]] [[Whereas the quantitative and qualitative staff shortage constitutes one of the identified factors affecting the absence of a significant improvement in material readiness;]] [[calls on the Government to use the resources from the Defence Budget as a priority to do whatever is necessary to acquire the personnel required to significantly improve material readiness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u346	Thank you. Mr Stoffer has four minutes to speak on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u347	Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions, and I'll file them soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the development of the Main Ground Combat System (MGCS) as a European weapons system of the future is under way;]] [[Considering that early involvement in this project provides an opportunity to discuss, inter alia, capacities and production, and that this can stimulate the Dutch defence industry and employment;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether the Netherlands can be involved in this at an early stage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u348	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van den Bosch and I have both advocated a robust and versatile military force. In light of that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Defence Vision 2035 indicates that our defence should specialise, but not how, namely, what it means for NATO and EU cooperation and the commitment to a robust and versatile military force;]] [[calls on the Government to supplement the Defence Vision with a more detailed framework for how task specialisation can be developed, including its advantages and disadvantages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas NATO countries have agreed to invest 2% of GDP in defence through the Defence Investment Pledge (DIP);]] [[Whereas the pursuit of this investment objective is urgent in the light of increasing geopolitical threats and the need for European NATO countries to reduce dependence on third countries, and that this is also evidence of allergic solidarity, responsibility and credibility;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the evaluation of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund (DMF) Act how it can include the notion that, in the interests of investment in and maintenance of equipment, efforts are being made to achieve the NATO standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van den Bosch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-54]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u349	Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on the submarines. The Secretary of State states that there are no Dutch main suppliers. That's right when you're talking about ThyssenKrupp, and it's true when you're talking about Naval IRC. But it doesn't add up when you're talking about Saab Days. They are similar, where the main task for Saab is development and the main task for Damen production. If you make the parallel with the infrastructure I'm coming out of, then the main contractor is the one who's putting away the biggest money. That's Damen. In that light, I see the motions we have tabled. I hope that the Secretary of State does not make the mistake of throwing our Dutch maritime industry and having the boats built in the country immediately. We really need to keep that in the Netherlands, because it is necessary for employment here and also for exports. That is what we have just done in Mr Van Helvert's motion on item No. 42 also indicated. I therefore call once again for a Dutch maritime industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u350	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk of Denk. Allow me to remind you that it says here that you have five minutes left, but that you have six minutes in total for the budgets of Defence and VWS. So you'll have to see for yourself how you're going to distribute it, or else who you're going to have to wage internal war with, to stay in the terminology. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u351	Mr. Chairman. During World War II, Moroccan soldiers fought for our security and for our country. It would be nice if one of the names of those Moroccan soldiers were written somewhere within our Defense Department. Maybe it's possible on one of the boats or submarines. Those were people with a Moroccan passport, I say towards the PVV. Mr. Chairman. Let me go to my motions in view of the time. Now there will be a motion from the Member Öztürk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large group of military and veterans, who have put their lives at risk for our safety, have to do with PTSD;]] [[calls on the Government to use sufficient resources to provide good guidance to military and veterans who have received PTSS as a result of their active military career,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that around 16,000 former defence workers were in trouble due to the increase in the AOW age;]] [[noting that the Minister's compensation scheme is not sufficient, which means that veterans have to lose for years;]] [[calls on the government to keep its promises and to consult as soon as possible with the group in which the AOW-hole has not yet been resolved in order to resolve this problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-56]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u352	I was a little late. My question was actually about the motion on the naming of vehicles. I like the fact that names are given to people who freed us. By the way, our beautiful town of Thorn has been liberated by Luxembourgers, so perhaps we can also find a Luxembourg veteran. If DENK likes to put names on beautiful vehicles, is DENK willing to invest in new vehicles? If we don't get new vehicles, there are no names to divide for DENK either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u353	We first invest in the salaries of our military. In addition, there is a delay. We also invest first in small materials that our soldiers need. We have seen footage of the places where they have to stay at the moment. That's really not thrilling. It's only when money's left that we're gonna buy expensive toys. But first we invest in the things that are necessary for our military at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u354	Mr Van Helvert, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u355	It is very good that we first invest in staff. I find it striking that DENK has already tabled a motion for a naming, but is not prepared to pay for vehicles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u356	There's no motion for naming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u357	I didn't file a motion for naming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u358	No, excuse me, that was a statement, but you said it. You meant what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u359	In the end, those lobbyists and the whole world are going to get the big parties to buy those expensive toys anyway. We know that. The pressure from those lobbyists is so heavy that it's going to happen anyway. I say: if it is going to happen, take a name of someone who has helped to liberate the Netherlands and has worked without a Dutch passport and in this case with a Moroccan passport. That is also good, so that the PVV can see that people from other places have served and will continue to serve our country. It's about security. I'm coming to my final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that military personnel working at the Ministry of Defence receive a structural reduction in the irregularity premium, ort, compared to, for example, the Royal Marechaussee, an example that is in this case a part of Defence;]] [[Whereas military staff are overloaded, structurally irregular services and many military personnel increase PTSS due to their career;]] [[whereas military personnel deserve an additional token of appreciation for being ready for our security day in and day out;]] [[calls on the government to allocate additional funds and to realise a one-off bonus of €1,000 for each military member of Defense,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-X-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u360	I have three minutes and 14 seconds left for my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u361	We'll count two here and then you'll have an extra three and they'll go with you to VWS. All right. This brings us to the end of the second term of office, in which 26 motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u362	I shall suspend the sitting until 3.15 p.m. and then the cabinet will give the motions an appreciation. Then we also had lunch break and we can quickly move on to the votes and the budget of VWS.
