ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	The first question is from Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks and concerns sanctions for employees of the International Criminal Court by the United States. I call Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Last March, the International Criminal Court decided to investigate possible war crimes committed in Afghanistan by the Taliban, the Afghan army and the US military. The Criminal Court wishes to investigate whether the US military and intelligence services in the country have committed torture, rape and sexual abuse of prisoners, particularly in the years 2003 and 2004. It should be absolutely natural for the United States to cooperate in this investigation as a democratic and freedom-loving force, but instead the United States has decided to impose sanctions against those involved in this investigation and their families. Can the Minister clarify exactly what sanctions are to be expected and how many people are affected by this? Is there any contact with the International Criminal Court and with the United States about this, so that employees are not unexpectedly confronted with unpleasant surprises? Mr. Chairman. The Foreign Minister has indicated that he is very concerned about the imposition of sanctions by the United States. In doing so, he indicated that he would discuss it with the Foreign Affairs Council which took place yesterday. There was a discussion with the US Secretary of State Pompeo on the agenda. I wonder if he can tell us what he put in there and what that conversation got us. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Netherlands stands right in front of the court, but of course this matter does not concern only the Netherlands. So it would be good to hear what the Netherlands can do to build an international coalition that will tell the United States that this step is being condemned. Finally, I would like to hear from the Minister what follow-up steps the Netherlands has in mind with other EU Member States. What diplomatic means does he see to increase the pressure on the United States because of this very undesirable step? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is host country of the International Criminal Court. That gives us a special responsibility. As Mr Van Ojik pointed out, I was therefore right to express my disappointment and concern when the United States announced last week the sanctions for staff of the Criminal Court involved in the investigation into Afghanistan. It is not the first time that the United States has spoken critically about the Criminal Court. Nor are they signatories to the Rome Statute, which forms the basis of the Court of Justice, but despite the fact that they are not signatories, we do not believe that obstacles to persecution are appropriate. Mr Van Ojik pointed out that too. That does not mean that we are also critical of the Criminal Court, even in our role as host country, where this is necessary. Last year, in the Assembly of States Parties, I also expressed my concerns about the effectiveness and discussion of salaries. This is also part of our role as a host country, but there is no doubt that the Netherlands stands for an independent Criminal Court and that it also provides for these sanctions with the opinion that I have given. Mr Van Ojik asks whether we know exactly what these sanctions are like. I haven't. However, we are in close contact with the International Criminal Court to see how to mitigate the impact of sanctions when they get there, because our commitment is still to prevent them from getting there. We are indeed doing so in a coalition context. Mr Van Ojik's question was: what else are you doing? As announced yesterday, I expressed my disappointment and concern again in the Foreign Affairs Council. Mr Van Ojik has probably seen that a number of European countries have done so and that Mr Borrell, the European Union's High Representative for Foreign Policy, did so last week in a press conference. The way forward this was Mr Van Ojik's last question is to continue to press the United States together with these countries with the message that we, with 123 signatories to the Rome Statute, consider it very important that the International Criminal Court should be able to do its work independently. This does not mean that we never criticize. We'll put it out there and turn it into action. But the imposition of sanctions on employees of that court doesn't pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	I don't think this is about whether you're criticizing the International Criminal Court. This is a country that we count among the group of our allies, and that says that if the Criminal Court is only going to investigate whether there may be crimes committed by American military forces in Afghanistan in 2003 and 2004, it is going to impose sanctions on the staff. They are no longer allowed in the United States, and perhaps their assets will be frozen in the United States. That's what we're talking about. The Minister says: we are still trying to prevent these sanctions from coming. I do think it is very good that this is the Dutch commitment, but the question is, of course, how we are going to do that. What, for example, did Minister Pompeo say yesterday? The Minister was able to convey to him by videoconference his concerns about the measures announced by America. What did Minister Pompeo say in response to that? So far, all I know is that he's called the Criminal Court a "fake court," a "kangaroo court." If I translate it correctly, it's some kind of fake courthouse. It doesn't matter to speak with such a lack of respect about an institution on which we in the Netherlands are proud to have it within our borders. This must be made clear to the United States in all possible ways. Secondly, my question to the Minister is: what are we going to do if that call on the United States not to do so turns out to be in vain? That may well be the case, because the United States has been threatening for years what they have now declared by presidential decree. So what are we gonna do? Is the Minister going to summon the ambassador? Is he going to increase political pressure in every possible way? Is he going to tell the United States in other ways that this is really a step too far as we are concerned? I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. The signal I gave myself last week, and many European countries with me, is quite understandable. We will therefore continue to work with these like-minded countries to change the United States' mind. Because that's the ideal outcome. I assume that Mr Van Ojik agrees with me that there should be no sanctions at all. Mr Van Ojik pointed out that the United States had already expressed its criticism of the Criminal Court. That's what I've been pointing out. They are not signatories to the Rome Statute. Fortunately, this has not led to sanctions in the past. That is why I continue to work with the other countries. I cannot, of course, predict exactly what steps we are going to take, nor exactly what steps we are going to take with those countries. However, I can say that we are continuing to work together towards the United States. Mr Van Ojik asks what Mr Pompeo said. Last week, he made a public statement. The European Councils themselves are confidential. I can tell you what I said; that is what I indicated. But others have to decide for themselves whether they want to let them know what they have said there. In any case, I have used the same wording in the direction of my American colleague, namely 'disease' and 'disease'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I see Mrs Karabulut, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Koopmans, Mr Azarkan, Mr De Roon and Mrs Ploumen. Is that right? Yes. Before I give you the floor, I would like to clarify something, because many people do not understand how our Question Time works. Those who ask the question always have four minutes to speak. Each group has the right to ask two supplementary questions during oral Question Time. The supplementary question must not last more than half a minute. That's why I'm being very strict. That has to do with that. I shall go first to Mrs Karabulut, who is going to set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	As always, Mr. Chairman. I think it is very important that the Minister has expressed his disapproval of the threats from the United States. Briefly, the United States started an illegal war in Iraq in 2003, where a million people died. In Afghanistan, too, to this day, the US is fighting a war based on lies to combat terrorism. When they go over the line, it is very important that the criminals are condemned there too. Since it was not clear to me, my question to the Minister is as follows: if they continue, can you promise that you will indeed take action towards the United States together with other colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mrs Karabulut's introduction also calls for a response. The Criminal Court is investigating. Mrs Karabulut makes a statement of guilt here before the judge has spoken, and I leave it entirely on her behalf. Mrs Karabulut and I probably agree on the fact that the Criminal Court is allowed to conduct that investigation. That is why I responded as I responded to the sanctions announced. I have already said to Mr Van Ojik that this is the case on the question of whether I should discuss further steps with other countries if these sanctions were to be applied. But the main effort is to prevent sanctions from being imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	The United States should, of course, stand shoulder to shoulder with us when it comes to combating impunity and ensuring that the greatest criminals of our time, who have committed crimes against humanity or genocide, do not escape their punishment. Instead, they are going to punish the people who work against that impunity. It is good that the Minister has expressed his disapproval, including personally, bilaterally at European level. But I would also like to ask him whether he would like to make it clear to the Court of Justice with the 123 countries, in no uncertain terms, that this cannot be done and that the Netherlands, together with those countries, will take action to prevent this. This can't be happening. This is an important organization for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Sjoerdsma is right that the International Criminal Court is an important organisation. This is also apparent from the 123 countries that do participate in the Criminal Court. This is also apparent from a number of successes. Last week, another major suspect, involved in a crime in Darfur, was captured. There have also been a number of controversial convictions. That court therefore deserves our support. That support is critical where it is needed. So our commitment is also to continue to advocate with the United States that they side with the Criminal Court. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that the United States should traditionally always be our ally in the fight for international law and the triumph of independent justice. So our commitment is twofold. We continue to advocate the participation of the United States. With regard to this specific action, our commitment, as I have already said, is to prevent the sanctions from actually being implemented. If that happens, we will, together with the countries that have fortunately spoken clearly, consider further steps if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	The International Criminal Court is essential in the fight against the most horrible war criminals. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister is fighting against American action. But today we also received the news that the United States wants to withdraw large numbers of troops from Germany. This also affects Dutch security very directly. I would like to ask the Minister how he is going to discuss this critically with the allies, specifically with the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u15	This message officially came out yesterday. What has been announced is the withdrawal of troops from Germany. We do not yet know whether these troops are staying in Europe, in NATO territory, or whether they are going back to the United States. It is clear that NATO is crucial for the security of the Netherlands. The presence of American troops in Europe is also crucial for Dutch security. So, together with other NATO countries, we will continue to advocate to the United States that they continue to play their role. And the United States will then say to us: do you do your part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u16	The minister says he's disappointed. I must say, I find that rather light. I'm also sometimes disappointed when the coffee is cold or if I don't find something at the hardware store, which means I have to go back. But we are dealing here with a serious violation of international law. This institute is important and shows that people who commit crimes anywhere in the world are held accountable here in The Hague. How does the Minister view the strength of the wording with which he rejected this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u17	You have seen that a lot of countries have chosen similar words with me. There are also countries that have not made that choice, but I am therefore in the company of a number of like-minded countries that traditionally have a close relationship with the United States. Fortunately, there is always more that binds us than separates us and that good friendship also includes frankness when we disagree. I have actually done so, as one of the first, in similar terms to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u18	A second supplementary question, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u19	Does the Minister realize that this is exactly what many people in the world and in the Netherlands are looking at? And then they say, "This is where inequality takes place." In 2003, a million people were shot in an illegal war. The Middle East was bombed. To this day, that continues in Afghanistan. People say: if crimes are committed, it doesn't matter who you are and where you come from, because you are called to account. You can do that here in The Hague. And now it looks like... In my opinion, the Americans went so far in 2003 with an Act, which was then passed as a law, which gave them the right to pick up a soldier who would come here again. This leads to inequality. Does the Minister also realize that the Americans are avoiding prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u20	I would first like to make the same point to Mr Azarkan as to Mrs Karabulut. He's talking about a criminal war and guilty. In the case of the rule of law, which I hear Mr Azarkan pleading in such a way, no one is guilty until he is convicted. This is an investigation initiated by the Criminal Court. That is where we are getting closer again, because I think it is important that the Criminal Court should be able to carry out that investigation independently and that there should therefore be no sanctions announced. That examination must show whether a case is being brought before the court. It's up to the judge to determine if any crimes have been committed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u21	I have to say that the United States did indeed sign the Rome Statute but did not ratify it. The fact that they had doubts about the whole case is understandable given the fact that the ICC, in particular the prosecutor's office, has become increasingly politicised. When Mrs. Bensouda took office as a prosecutor, she said that she was inspired by Islam in her task. It turns out so, because then she wanted to prosecute America because it has tackled the top terrorist Bin Laden. It also wants to prosecute Israel, because that country is defending itself against all kinds of terrorists of Islamic signature. Does the Minister agree with me that the politicisation of the prosecutor's office should be removed, that Mrs Bensouda should preferably be removed and that, if we cannot do so, we should consider whether that ICC could still play a sensible role?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u22	I indicated at the beginning of my speech that the fact that we are host countries entails a particular responsibility. This means that we stand firm when the United States threatens to impose sanctions. It also means that we are critical at court where necessary. I am not going to end all the events that Mr De Roon points out. However, I would point out that in public, during the Assembly of States Parties and later in an article in The Washington Post, but also in direct talks with the court, I pointed out a number of important points of improvement. So I am certainly not free of criticism. As so often with international organisations, you can choose to take responsibility and do your best to improve from the inside, and that is the choice of this cabinet. Or you can choose to walk away, with which the whole structure falls apart. I find that unwise, because I was able to refer to Mr Sjoerdsma in a number of cases where perpetrators of terrible war crimes have been convicted, and that is a gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u23	The United States is withdrawing from this president from treaties that are dear to us, that are dear to us, that contribute to a stable world order and to a better climate. At the same time, this minister says, on another step by the United States, as a form of spelling, that there is still more that binds us than separates us. The question to this minister is: if the Americans are going to threaten to sanction people who simply do their work on behalf of the international community, what is left that actually binds us? Would it not be much better if, apart from being disappointed, the Minister also announced concrete counter-measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mrs Ploumen does ask a very ominous question: what is still binding on us? That's kind of a Swedish play about a hard marriage. Unfortunately, when you look at the world map, there are not so many countries where democracy and the rule of law function in a way that we say: it may not all be exactly as in the Netherlands... I know that this is a constant frustration for part of the Chamber................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The United States is one of them. They also belong to those countries which, even though they are now somewhat less free-trade-minded than in the past, are in balance with us opting for a world of free trade, free exchange of ideas, for progress, and inevitably to mention this year: they are our liberators. So I say with complete conviction: yes, there is much more that binds us than separates us. Yesterday, in consultation with Pompeo, as a good friend, I was able to say: in this area I really do not agree with you, I say that in good company with even more good friends, who share that disappointment with me, so I hope you will not make this decision, and otherwise we will see with our friends how we can make it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA and then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u26	I share the anger in the Chamber and the disappointment of the Minister on this point. America would like to be the leader of the world. An opportunity to show that is by supporting the International Criminal Court. That is why we have asked whether we can make an agreement with the parliamentary friendship group to discuss precisely this. I would ask Mrs Ploumen to take part in this, because we need that sound very much. My question to the Minister is, also towards contact with the parliamentary friendship group, whether Pompeo has offered any openings at all. What else does he want to see? What else do the United States want to see? Then we can take that into account in that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u27	First of all, I think that Mr Van Helvert makes a good suggestion by also discussing it as representatives of the people. When I am in Washington myself, I always have talks with members of Congress involved in foreign policy, to share our views with them too. As far as Minister Pompeo's approach is concerned, I think, once again, that I must respect the confidentiality of the sitting itself. Of course, we are committed to achieving that primary objective in direct contacts, so that sanctions are not implemented. We have not yet achieved that, but that remains my full commitment, with as large a group as possible, but also one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u28	At the same time as Mr Van Helvert. I understand that you cannot tell me what a colleague said in a meeting here in the Chamber. However, I believe that this debate should include an understanding as a parliament of what the reaction of the United States is to the concern expressed so widely from Europe and by UN Member States. I would also like to say this immediately because today, in a respected American newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, it says that Pompeo has not responded at all, has not taken the trouble to respond to the intervention of our minister, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr Van Ojik realises that I also understand from what he said that I cannot violate the confidentiality of the consultation, even when newspapers give the impression that they were present. So it is really up to the United States, if they want to follow up on their statement last week, to come up with follow-up statements, for example in response to my statement but also those of many similar countries. Of course, that is also part of the commitment, because we want to get closer to each other. But I can't break the confidentiality of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u30	Then, I think, there is a logical follow-up question and my final question to this minister. Look, all of a sudden, sanctions are being imposed, people are suddenly at the border, so to speak, and they have an entry ban. Then it's too late. So the question is a little bit: when can we hear from a response from the United States on the basis of which we can discuss with this minister whether his strategy seems right to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u31	Mr Van Ojik himself pointed out in his speech that since 2004 the debate has actually been taking place between the United States, which does not recognise the court, and countries such as the Netherlands that support it. This also indicates that there was an altercation at that time, but fortunately no measures were imposed. It also indicates how long such a period can last. So as soon as there's something I can share with you in public, I will, but I really can't predict what period that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here because this fits a pattern. A pattern in which the United States suddenly canceled the Iran deal on their own, suddenly walked away from the Paris climate agreement on their own. Now for criminal law, then for NATO. And I'm just saying, we have at least six months left with this American president. So my question is perhaps a little broader than just the Criminal Court: what is this minister going to do to maintain the international links with the United States, and wider than that, in the period that is yet to come? Because each time something that is dear to us is one-sidedly destroyed. And a lot can still be broken in six months, so I ask this Minister: what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u34	Maintaining the contacts very intensively. That is why I also responded to Mrs Ploumen. That's when I was there. Mrs. Ploumen has already pulled the divorce papers out of the drawer. I don't. As a cabinet, the Prime Minister, colleagues, myself, we have been frequent guests in Washington in recent years. Due to the corona crisis, a planned visit was cancelled last April and I had a phone call. In between, we ensure that we have as many contacts as possible in the widest possible area. Fortunately, the Netherlands is a country that has weight by being one of the largest investors in the United States, and also by hanging out with them in many areas. For example, when I think of a subject such as defending human rights in China, we are shoulder-to-shoulder again. In other areas less, but fortunately I can still say on balance: there is more to us than what separates us. Mrs Ploumen is already ready! But by continuing to look for these connections and for new connections, it is also possible to continue to discuss with the United States those points which Mr Sjoerdsma rightly mentions, where we do not agree with the choices made by the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u36	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I've always understood that in marriage, you shouldn't let things go through, and it's much better to say straight out what's bothering you, and also to say it straight out when you think it's really too much. So let me take over Mr Blok's analogy: thank God I don't have such a Swedish dark marriage...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u37	All this during oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I hope my husband is watching. But my question does arise from that. Of course, I understand very well that the Minister does not end his relationship with the United States. But at the same time I think that is what I hear from more colleagues that the cabbage and goat are being spared here. If I were Pompeo, I'd think, "Well, they said they don't like me, but yes, they're not going to add any consequence to it for the time being."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u39	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u40	So my question is: why aren't tougher measures announced now, as counter-offers against the sanctions that affect people in their personal lives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u41	The Minister. No, Mrs Ploumen, you have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr. Chairman. The world would really be a more unsafe place if countries continued to wave sanctions. I have often pointed out that a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee is not pleasant if the word'sanctions' has not been mentioned. So I'm not disappointed this time either. But if all countries in the world were to follow this line of reasoning, namely that it would not be a nice meeting if the word "sanctions" had not fallen, then I fear that there are countries that want to apply much harder, much heavier and much more frequent sanctions than the Netherlands. So it fits precisely in the Dutch tradition, on which I think we can find each other, that we are critical where that is needed, as in this case, but that we always choose the way of consultation first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you.
