ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u1	The issue is now the examination of the Law 35526, temporary provisions relating to measures to combat the epidemic of covid-19 for the longer term, the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think and hope that no one in the Chamber has missed the strength of this law among our people. This can clearly be seen from the messages we get in our mailbox, but also from people who are scared. People who are afraid of losing their freedom, afraid of getting sick and then not getting help, afraid of the youth who sees the perspective disappear into a normal future, afraid of the fate of children and their parents. We would like to urge all people at home that the Forum for Democracy listens to you, you hear. We listen to your doubts and objections as well as your values and hope in these times. We stand for the protection of the weak and also for the protection of our freedom. But most of all we stand for representative democracy. Simply put, for the people. That's the point. You are represented by us as representatives of the people. That's what we're up against. In our contribution, I will address the acceptance of different groups and why it is essential for this law and precisely what it lacks. Political support is, of course, very important. It is clear to our group that the debate in this House today should not take long. After all, there is a bill before us asking the First Chamber to put itself out of operation. This is true when the fundamental rights of citizens are being violated here in the Netherlands. The reason for the request for this law is that the government wants to have impact force in the emergency situation, with legal cover. The answer to this should be clear from all political groups: no, we in the First Chamber do not want to be missed. We, as the First Chamber, do not give way to the fundamental rights of our citizens, and certainly not if they are restricted. This Chamber has asked the Council of State for advice, simply put, for the fact that the Second Chamber has excluded the Upper Chamber. This opinion concluded as follows: "it also reduces the risk of a stalemate between the Minister, the House of Representatives and the First Chamber which is too damaging to the power of the Board." "Too much damage" is also included. The Council of State uses force as an argument to put the First Chamber out of play when deciding on very "major arrangements" for citizens, as they are called. I quote again from the opinion of the Council of State, again, it is an opinion: 'because of disagreement over these far-reaching measures, far-reaching arrangements as we call them, there may be a stalemate between the Chambers and this cost-effectiveness'. But when it comes to impact, I ask the Minister, where was the impact when this pandemic broke out and the elderly died in our nursing homes because the cabinet did not organize proper protective equipment, such as mouth caps and such like? Where was the impact force when we had to test, test, test after the first lockdown? The tests weren't there! There was no capacity for it. And even now, it is. And where was the strength to build the ic capacity in a structural way this summer? China built an emergency hospital in six days. After nine months we see that our hospitals are under pressure again and regular care is failing again. That's far more intense than the effects of corona. In order to achieve these three things, sufficient protection material, test material and ic-material, we need impact strength. And it's been missing so far. This First Chamber has nothing to do with that. The cabinet has had nine months, because it wants to do so, in order to develop sufficient testing capacity. And that hasn't worked out yet. There are reports about this, I see the Minister looking at it, but we would like to see the facts showing that this can be done. The point is also that these tests are so important for fighting the virus. That is why we say: show that within the current legal limits the government could do what it had to do before asking us for more powers. Suppose the cabinet finds that both chambers are facing each other in that so-called stalemate, then there is something else going on. In that case, the parliamentary representation of this country is clearly deeply divided over the very profound restriction of the rights of our citizens. That is absolutely not a weakness. On the contrary, it is a very strong signal in our society that this can happen, that the cabinet is apparently not doing the right things at the time, and that there is no basis for it. If the government wants to restrict fundamental rights, then there is actually a state of emergency. And then the role of our Parliament is more important than ever. We have all had a beautiful magazine in our group chambers, in which the First Chamber is described. The article was subtitled: Parliament's emergency brake. It's being set aside for now. The Council of State even states that these arrangements, as it calls them, are in many cases perceived by citizens as very far-reaching. We consider the description of'schemes' to be somewhat weak, but apparently that is the language used by the Council of State. In fact, they are, of course, dictations that are going to be subject to sanctions and tough enforcement. But, as the Council of State itself says, it is important that parliamentary control should be guaranteed. For us, both chambers must be known. For this reason, we are going to propose to the cabinet that it will probably have to do so in a novelle, by means of a motion to ensure that the voice of the First Chamber is also heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u4	I have two questions to ask Mr Van Pareren about the principles he applies. I hear two assumptions. Firstly, this law creates more powers than the government currently has. Secondly, the First Chamber is no longer involved in the decision-making process. But if I read it correctly, the emergency law is currently making it possible for the measures to be taken. In fact, this law represents these powers. Thus, the law does not give more powers, but defines them. As far as the role of the First Chamber is concerned, all the constitutional powers of the First Chamber continue to be exercised. So my question is where our views differ. I don't quite get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u5	I understand your question, and on the other hand I do not understand it either. I understand that you want to ask a question about this and that you are curious about our position. The fact remains that the Council of State indicates that the First Chamber of Parliament, which has actually been decided by the Second Chamber with the Cabinet, has no role in agreeing to measures under this law. That is the situation we are faced with as the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u6	Then we disagree. If I understand correctly, this is the Buitenweg amendment. It gives a kind of right of assent to the House of Representatives for royal decisions to be taken. But in addition to that right of consent, there are just the general rights that First and Second Chambers have together. And that's not gonna happen. So if the First Chamber doesn't agree with decisions, we can still argue with them. We can ask questions, we can table motions and so on. So the thesis that the First Chamber has been played out, I can't quite follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u7	You state exactly when the First Chamber is finished. That's in an emergency like we do now. It's an emergency law, an emergency. Apart from what the law is called, there is no possibility for the Supreme Court to consent. Of course, the Council of State describes this very carefully. The Council of State is forgetting one thing, namely the possibilities that the First Chamber does have. I do miss a little the motions on the way to a novel.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course we have not been completely played out, but precisely in this emergency situation, the House of Representatives has also decided that the First Chamber does not have to agree, while we also represent our country, our people, as representatives of the people in that emergency. That's what we're up against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr Recourt, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u9	Does Mr Van Pareren agree with me that, if we do not agree with any of those measures which will be taken by royal decision, we, as the First Chamber, will not be able to do so by means of that Buitenweg amendment, which can be withdrawn for ten days, but in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u10	I don't read that in the law. I do not read in the law that, at the moment when the government comes with a measure and the House of Representatives agrees with it, we, as First Chamber, have the opportunity to say: ho, ho, ho, ho, we do not agree with it. Then there may be a situation where there is a stalemate, but that is democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr Recourt, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u12	I don't agree with this. I'll come back to that in my term. But let us at least put this question to these three members of the government, so that we can be clear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u13	I very much appreciate that you would like to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u14	I can go along with Mr Van Pareren. It does take a lot of force. I can also go along with what Mr Van Pareren says about the judgment of the Council of State. We have therefore said that we do not need the advice of the Council of State. We ourselves, as the First Chamber, know what we want and how we want to act. Your group wanted an opinion from the Council of State if necessary. And since the Council of State has said that it can't do it all and that the First Chamber has to keep its mouth shut, we're stuck with the fried pears. You caused it yourself. In the past, too, your group has asked for the advice of the Council of State to outsource the problem for every eraser. Why do you keep doing that? You, as an elected representative of the people, can make your own judgement, I ask through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u15	I welcome the fact that this question is being asked and that this matter is being highlighted. Thank you. We are perfectly capable of making that decision on our own. On the other hand, we also like to participate in the constitutional process. If it turns out that there is a need for an opinion from the Council of State in this Chamber, then we are not opposed to that. Then we'll listen to it and we'll look at it. We'll take it as an advice. So it will never cause us to deviate from our position that we believe that the Supreme Court should have a role in this. In my input, I explained that. You have clearly heard that you agreed - that we do not consider this situation desirable in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u16	That is clear: it has no more than the status of an opinion. However, I would like to ask Mr Van Pareren, through the President, to set his own course in future and not to outsource everything to the Council of State every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u17	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Pareren. Oh, Mr Verkerk has another question, excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u18	I would like to put the following question to Mr Van Pareren. One of the important arguments put forward by the Council of State was that it was a ministerial arrangement. That was one of the important arguments. Would your proposal be that all the ministerial arrangements should in future be placed in place and obtained the consent of the Supreme Court? 'Cause watch the language, too. You spoke of an "emergency law." No, it's a "temporary law." The Council of State focuses on ministerial arrangements and, looking at the history of the law and the rule of law, indicates that there is no objection to the agreement only by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u19	What matters to us is that the role of the First Chamber in the regulations that come here is equal to that of the House of Representatives, whether it is a veil or a ministerial arrangement in this situation. That is what I would like to say to Mr Verkerk. We are concerned that we should not be excluded. That's the idea. If that's what you mean by that, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u20	My observation is that the First Chamber is not excluded. Mr Van Pareren has an opinion and that is permitted. But in principle it is not supported by the whole of the history of this House of First Instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u21	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Pareren, because I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u22	Can I still respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u23	Shortly, because I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u24	I heard a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u25	Then give me the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u26	Otherwise, I won't respond. I think I should respond correctly to Mr Verkerk. I think, and Mr Recourt pointed that out, that it is clear that we as the First Chamber are not to the same extent involved as the Second Chamber in this temporary law as I will change my language for you, despite the need in the country. But again, that doesn't mean we have the same role. That is what my whole story is about, and that is what the Forum for Democracy position is about. May I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u27	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u28	You're running the clock. I was talking about acceptance, about political support. This support is, of course, also important for our people. We see a lot being written in the media about the mood among our people. He's scared. People are afraid, I have already said that, because the messages are coming at people like blanks. They don't really feel safe and secure about that. It is even so strong that groups of people should not be allowed to demonstrate at all before our Parliament because that would be disturbing for certain Members of Parliament. We are very sorry to hear that. It is said by certain politicians that people in this corona time are all playing smart tricks to keep going. I really think it goes too far to accuse people of playing smart tricks. The scientist Mr Van Dissel, whom the cabinet is listening to, even the young holidaymakers in southern France and Spain blamed for the second wave. I would like to hear that, because in the answer I clearly hear that the second wave is now in progress. Well, I'm not doing that geographically all day, but I have the impression that there aren't so many young people on holiday in southern France. They do go a little further. However, Mr Van Dissel felt that this was the cause. It's such incredibly disturbing reports the people are concerned with. If things go wrong for a moment, our Prime Minister, Mr President, forgive me for using the word "young people" to keep their mouths shut. One of the ministers who is also here said: they are asos; they are really asos. We really think that goes too far. People are named "wappies" or whatever you want to call them. We listen to that. We listen to that to hear what lives in society. We ourselves draw our own conclusions on what to do with this, but we are listening. We don't think it's necessary to ignore or exclude people, which happens quite often. We also know the story of the mouth cap. That does virtually nothing, as has always been said by the same Mr Van Dissel. After a lot of evidence, that whole story was kept. That was gonna lead a life of its own. Now we are on the verge of making them compulsory, and of course we are wondering why citizens should not have a safe medical mask. If that mouth cap works so well, why should the citizen use a non-medical mouth cap? What we don't hear about at all in the lessons learned from the cabinet, is the case that Maurice de Hond has been quoting for months, months: the droplets and the ventilation needed for this. There's no mention of that. They're just walking around. You would say that is not possible at this time, but it does result in schools, government buildings and nursing homes still not having the proper ventilation. But we do need to work, and we need to learn. You can say the same about the corona app. He had to be in a lot of hurry, but what turned out to be? He was there, but the whole regime was changed, because there were no tests. At Schiphol Airport, anyone can enter the country without being tested. The test street, which was there for a moment, was completely voluntary and was stopped because apparently there was no need for it anymore. But what is the difference between these travelers and the visitors to the catering industry? The restaurants have gone to such lengths to give people seats in a safe way. And why are there as many people allowed to sit in a small theatre hall as in a colossal church with 2,300 seats? All kinds of measures have been taken by churches to provide ventilation and to comply with all the corona rules. Well, there's bombs about that. We do not consider this to contribute to the support of our citizens. Dutch believers are thus restricted in their faith and that is very serious. I cannot call him "emergency law" because of compulsion and urge. I'm going to get some support from the care staff, because of course we need those people in this pandemic. The caregivers take care of us in the hospitals, the nursing homes, the other institutions in the care, and beyond in home care. Despite systematic austerity in recent years, we believe that this is really important, with great commitment, effort and creativity, to help Dutch people in the corona pandemic. At the same time, they had to watch the regular care collapsed. I said before that there are more victims to regret than the corona. Of course, we are equally sorry for both types of victims. We want to motivate care and we want support, but the bonus promised to the care staff has still not been paid. There's still a discussion about who gets the bonus and who doesn't. If you happen to contribute as azzp'er, you can't just get a bonus. And we all know the story of structural wage increases. You shouldn't really call it a joke, because it was a scandalous display that the coalition left the Chamber building in a massive way to ensure that there would be no raise for care. But we do appeal to that concern. We as a group are getting so many reports about this that we can imagine that it will be enough for them, that they will be tired of it and that they will believe it symbolically. That's a nice gesture, but what good is it if there's no real appreciation? Mr. Chairman. So it's about the basis for this law. There is therefore a need for support in politics, but, as I have already said, also among the population and among our care staff. That confidence in that support comes on foot and disappears on horseback, as we say. That comes in a simple car and disappears with a BMW or Audi, where our cabinet is in general driving. It is clear from the Forum for Democracy that the government still has too little support for this law, in which there is so rigorous scope for restricting our freedoms. It cannot sufficiently justify why this is now necessary. We think this is too far-reaching, because it is so uncertain what is going to happen. For convenience, the First Chamber is also excluded. We consider it important not only that there is a kind of corona card or dashboard or what it is called, but also that the government has something like a plan of action. What's the vision? Where are we going? Where are we getting out of? What is the future for the citizens of this country at some point? What can they rely on and what can they rely on? That is something that is needed now and which is very missing at the moment. We are immediately proposing that the law should apply for a maximum of six months, to evaluate the law after a period of three months, and then a maximum of a second period of three months. Therefore, no more than one extension after three months and a maximum duration of six months. Then we will see what the state of affairs is at that time in the Netherlands. With that information, based on ever-increasing insight, we can go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u29	You really are the sunshine in the house, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u31	You make a great deal of criticism of the law and of policy, and then suddenly you say: the law must be passed for up to six months. So you actually agree to the bill, despite all the criticism. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u32	I'm glad you're asking for clarification. We are not in favour of the law, but it seems that that law will be passed, given the voting conditions in the House of Representatives. Nota bene parties such as PvdA, GroenLinks but also 50PLUS and the SGP voted in favour of the law, so the Forum for Democracy as a realistic party would be greatly surprised if not to vote for it today. But we'll see in the course of the day. I would like to add that if that law is to be passed, it must be extremely short. So we are not saying that we want that law, but if we can't stop it, and it looks like it, as I just said, we want that law to be as short as possible. We must be able to get back to the normal order of the day in the Netherlands quickly: giving and giving hope, expectations, future for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u33	Then I see that the Democracy Forum says that it is a bad law and that they are probably going to vote against it. Then the law will be passed and it will have to apply for six months. Isn't that just a bit of bother?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u34	I don't think it's a tasty meal to eat that kind of thing, I have to say. I don't see it that way. Let me put it this way. I understand that's how you see it, but it's absolutely not a matter of eating both sides. On the contrary, we state that this is a situation in which we do not have to comply with such a law. If that law comes with a majority of Parliament, we are a democracy, we think it should be as short as possible. That's what we report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr Dittrich, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u36	I will come back to this in my own term, but I do not think it is a convincing story that you are giving all kinds of criticism here and then saying that if that law is there, you think that this and that should be done. Then you will be involved in the legislative process, in the sense that the law is there and that it must have a certain duration. I stand by my view that you're basically eating both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u37	I am very curious about the views expressed by Mr Dittrich in his own contribution. I'm very curious about that. I distance myself from the construction that we eat off both sides. I've told you twice already. I shall repeat it a third time: we do not eat of double standards, we only think that the law should be restricted if we vote for this law in this Chamber, which it seems to be. Otherwise, he will intervene too much in the lives of our citizens, as the Council of State clearly points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u38	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. I still have some questions that I want to finish my story with. The question is, I will not mention for which minister who is directly responsible or can you ensure that our population is no longer flooded with panicking reports of thousands of infections a day. It doesn't give people a pass to judge. It's just panic. The question is: why do you choose this approach and are you also willing to adapt it to more reassuring coverage? The second question is: is it not time to talk to the people instead of bringing messages after the people? There must be a whole group of people who suffer from this, as I believe Professor Westerhof suggests. Let's do it that way to increase support. One more question for Minister Grapperhaus. How do you feel that the President of the House of Representatives, unlike our President of the Chamber, is happy to compare protesters and wants to keep them as far away from the House of Representatives as possible? For Minister Ollongren, I have the following question. Do you have everything under control for the upcoming elections on 17 March, so that they can be conducted in an orderly manner? What does your plan look like? Now that it seems that the mouth caps are going to be compulsory, I still have the question to the Minister whether the 50 euros that cost on average per person will be reimbursed to the people. Is that gonna be in basic insurance? Or do you think that citizens should lose €2,000 net per person to the mouth caps? Why is ventilation, introduced in the past by Maurice the Dog, not in this law? There is talk of distance, but why isn't ventilation mentioned? And what are you going to do about the psychic distress of the people at this time? It's growing quite a bit, isn't it? We don't hear much about that. We are thinking in particular of the children who suffer from this. As a final question, I have the following. Dr. Levi said that in December we have the corona vaccine of the manufacturers Oxford and Pfizer. Where did you order the vaccines? And when are these coming? Moreover, I think it is quite clear that the shot with the corona vaccine, like the flu shot, is not compulsory. I see the time is up. I've got one more lockdown point. How come there's not enough flu shots? That once again gives concern to our Dutch. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In recent days, and certainly in recent days, we have received countless e-mails from concerned citizens about the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The call in these e-mails was clear: First Chamber, respect our freedom and vote against this bill. Remarkable is that there was not one e-mail in which we were begged to vote in favour. To make this clear, the PVV defends our freedoms and will therefore vote against this law. After all, this law does not provide our society with demonstrable protection against the coronavirus and no solutions for necessary improvements in care, but only an unacceptable disproportionate restriction on the fundamental rights of our citizens. The failure of the government's policy to combat the virus and the structuralally poor care policy of this Rutte cabinet is being shifted to the citizens by this law. Civil liberties are being restricted by disproportionate measures because citizens and businesses would be careless, while this reckless Rutte Cabinet allowed aircraft loads of protective equipment to leave our country for China, resources that were badly needed in our nursing homes for our vulnerable elderly and sick, while this Rutte Cabinet, after more than six months of testing capacity and source and contact research, has not yet been in order, while this Rutte Cabinet and RIVM have been communicating changing and conflicting messages about measures to be taken and their effectiveness, while Rutte, enthusiastically assisted by the PvdA, has systematically broken down the care that has closed hospitals and there are now too few care personnel and insufficient capacity, and has lost time for months, with the result that everything is still not in order. Instead of effectively resolving these problems and saving lives by putting health and ic capacity in order, this Rutte cabinet is primarily seeking an excuse in enforcement capacity by restricting and punishing privacy. Priority is given to fines for citizens and businesses, but still no structural bonus for our heroes in care. Regular care is now being scaled down even further, which is precisely at the expense of public health and human life. It is precisely this cabinet that comes with this law, which states that 'in the interests of the protection of public health and the right to health as human rights, the restriction of fundamental rights if privacy is considered proportionate', I quote as it is stated. It's the reverse world. Mr. Chairman. According to the Cabinet, this law should also provide the legal basis for a duty to protect the public, which is also an infringement of fundamental rights and civil liberties. The Minister states that 'I quote'reasons of 'image and awareness' for the cabinet are not the guiding considerations for the introduction of obligations to wear a mask in certain situations'. On the other hand, two presidents of security regions recently stated that these are the main considerations for masks; they are the same presidents of security regions who are also advised in the Security Council by the OMT and, in consultation with the Cabinet, draw up the emergency regulations on which this bill builds. Both Mr Jorritsma, mayor of Eindhoven, and Mr Mikkers, mayor of Den Bosch, recently, as chairman of the security region, stated that the main purpose of wearing mouth caps is to make a statement and that wearing mouth caps is mainly symbolic in order to make people aware of the risks. Can the Minister explain how these statements made by the Presidents of these two security regions relate to the Minister's reply? Does the Minister consider it proportionate, through this law, to restrict civil liberties with a duty of silence in order to raise awareness, as mayors say? Also when answering questions on Article 58d, the Minister remains very unclear as regards the definition of the "serious fear" aspect. The Minister states that the adoption or repeal of the decision is not recorded in indicators, factors and thresholds. He confines himself to mentioning some elements that play a role. It is stressed, however, that this is a matter of its own administrative judgment by the VWS Minister. With that, it offers a lot of space. On balance, it's a free pass for the minister. Can the Minister specify how administrative arbitrariness is prevented by the Minister when applying this Article? Mr. Chairman. The questions on the current state of the virus, which is of great importance for the application of this law due to the assessment of the need for the deployment of ministerial arrangements, are also not given specific criteria, indicators, factors or thresholds. It remains to be seen in general terms that indicators for the spread of the virus have been included in the coronadashboard and that an explanation will be given when submitting a ministerial scheme. This makes parliamentary scrutiny a farce. Instead of first setting out the frameworks within which a ministerial arrangement can be proclaimed, the Minister himself can always extend the frameworks as far as he likes. Therefore, again, what concrete indicators does Parliament have to check whether a regulation is proportionate, effective and necessary? Mr. Chairman. Then about closing down the catering business. This sector is hit disproportionately hard, without proper justification for the measures. This law also provides a basis for taking such measures, but does not provide any balancing criteria for establishing with objective indicators whether these measures are effective and achieving results. With vague and unfounded criteria, an entire sector, which has done its best to take precautions, is ruined. Good behavior is not rewarded but punished. As far as PVV is concerned, the catering industry, especially the restaurants, should have a fair chance and be able to open up again. It is remarkable that in Germany a court in Berlin has already wiped the floor with unsubstantiated measures. There is no evidence from the health authorities' statistics that previous closure or the ban on the supply of alcohol after a certain period of time makes a difference. This explanation can also be applied to the Netherlands. Why take informationless and unfounded measures? What should mayors base themselves on in applying this law? How is this restriction of fundamental rights to be assessed by municipal councils, with objective criteria? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the point of providing information to the two Chambers on measures to be taken in respect of underlying documents. Here, the Minister, and I quote 'targeted requests for specific documents to be honored in the same way as if the requested documents had been provided through the WOB, the Public Administration Act'. That's not enough. It can be expected that the Minister will actively share with the Chambers important information on decisions to be taken. If targeted requests are needed, Parliament should not apply the framework of the WED but of Article 68 of the Constitution. Therefore, once again, the request that the Chambers should not be saddled with completely blackened pages, and that the underlying parts should be shared as proactively as possible. In addition, there is the question of how the information provision towards the municipal councils is secured. Can the Minister state what guarantees are given in the implementation of this law that city council members have sufficient information to enable them to control and adjust their mayors? Can they also have as much access as possible to underlying documents? What possibilities do they have if a mayor refuses to share important information with them? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of information, what about testing laboratories? In an overview of test laboratories for Dutch corona tests on the RIVM site, to which the Minister refers in response to the questions we have asked, I am surprised to note that a test site in Abu Dhabi has also been mentioned. I quote: Saltro, Utrecht, including testing location Annab Laboratories LLC in Abu Dhabi (among Unilabs UAE). I thought the cabinet had indicated that it would not do any tests in the United Arab Emirates. What's the deal now? Are there or are no Dutch corona tests taking place there? Can the Minister rule out that Dutch corona tests take place there now that the laboratory is included in the RIVM list? And one more thing. Last Friday, GGD director Sjaak de Grouw stated that Belgian laboratories are also used for Dutch corona tests. However, these are not available in the overview. Can the Minister state whether this is correct and why they have not been mentioned? Mr. Chairman. With this law, we are in the dark. No one knows on the basis of which criteria and indicators are considered and decisions are taken to take action. No one can effectively assess whether measures are useful and whether other measures are no longer beneficial to the fight against the virus. This law of assumptions reminds me of the fight against the cholera epidemic at the beginning of the nineteenth century. It was assumed that this was caused by eating gooseberries, and also the fairgrounds were forbidden. It was only many years later that it was found that the culprits were not the gooseberries, but bad hygiene and polluted drinking water. Even now, fairgrounds are banned on the basis of assumptions, while amusement parks are allowed to remain open. Carousal operators have been out of revenue for months now. The same applies to unsubstantiated measures in the open air as the gooseberry of the 21st century. Group formation with up to four people at 1.5 metres outdoors, while within meetings up to 30 persons are possible without requirements for ventilation or the effect on aerosol distribution via microdrops is taken seriously. Meanwhile, the enforcers in the outdoors measure by an inch whether good citizens are only 128 centimeters apart instead of 150 centimeters, at the penalty of a fine. Then it is not surprising that many citizens fear and distrust such a rigid thumbstick dictatorship. It is also questionable whether it is necessary at all to make such measures legally enforceable by means of this bill for indoor spaces. This is also based on the principle of subsidiarity. Why come up with legal measures if, for example, a provision can already be made in the house rules of an institution? Why, then, give the Minister and the mayors so much power that is hardly verifiable and adaptable, and in addition, give them a free pass to undermine the fundamental rights of our citizens? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. This legislative proposal lacks clear, verifiable indicators for action and the establishment of ministerial arrangements. Drivers should not receive a blank cheque if the bill is passed unexpectedly. Measures must be measurable and manageable and can be reviewed by representatives of the people. Therefore, the PVV submits a motion to always indicate verifiable indicators for all measures or schemes. Mr. Chairman. This law is not demonstrably addressing the virus, but is disproportionately addressing the constitutional freedoms of our citizens. That is completely unacceptable for the PVV. The PVV stands up for our freedom and will therefore vote against this bill. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion, which, as I said, is needed if this bill is to be passed without a second thought. I will read to her, with your permission, the motion by Mr Van Hattem of the PVV on the establishment of concrete verifiable indicators for measures and/or ministerial arrangements under the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u42	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u43	I am at the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u44	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Dittrich on behalf of D66 for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u45	I listened very carefully to Mr Van Hattem. I would like to sum up that you say that this law gives unbridled powers to the government, to mayors and presidents of security regions. But I would like to add Article 58b. It clearly states that this law applies to the fight against the epidemic or a direct threat of it, but that the law can only be applied, and that it is quite clear that it is necessary "to take account of the seriousness of the threat to public health, if this is in accordance with the principles of the democratic rule of law and if the exercise of fundamental rights is reduced as little as possible and proportionate to that objective'. Then you can't say everything's possible. That is a very clear framework and limitation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u46	That's the point. Mr Dittrich mentioned a number of circumstances within which it could be applied. It is for this reason that I have tabled the motion for a resolution, and that is why these circumstances are not verifiable at all. It is said that there is an epidemic. The concept of an epidemic is not very clearly defined in the law itself. There are no balancing criteria to determine when an epidemic occurs, when an epidemic decreases, when an epidemic stops or worsens. That is an unclear factor, because there are no limit values. You say that there are all kinds of circumstances within which this can be considered. There is no clear definition of the exact circumstances under which these measures can be taken. There has to be something of a clear indicator that can frame the action taken. It's missing from this law. They can easily say: we think it is necessary and then we do it that way. Then it is an open standard that can be applied and that is a structural problem that is at issue throughout the structure of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u47	But if what you say is true, then it is also arranged that every month an overview of the state of affairs is given to the Lower House and to the Upper House. Every three months there will be a report with an opinion from the Council of State. That's what we're gonna talk about in the Lower House and in the Upper House. You say that you are missing a convincing story whether it is still necessary or whether the measures are generally necessary. Then you can make your point and in theory, if you find a majority for that, the law can be stopped. As far as individual measures are concerned, we also have control. We can also say that we do not agree with that. If you miss the fact that there is a certain scientific basis, you can bring it up in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u48	Well, then we're actually chasing the facts. It is much more important to be able to say in advance before such a scheme is submitted: what are the frameworks, what are the indicators within which such a scheme fits? Now it can be said very easily: it seems necessary, but we do not know under what circumstances. We need to make these conditions very clear in advance, so that they can be tested. Now it's not testable. Now information can indeed be provided, but what should this information be appreciated on? A development or trend given in such a presentation can be explained in many ways, but if you establish an arrangement, it must be clear whether the scheme is applicable in such a situation because it would be necessary. There must be a certain criterion. And those criteria are not given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr Dittrich, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u50	Then you seem to ignore the fact that we are in a pandemic, in a public health crisis, and that a government must act decisively, so we must come up with proposals. Then you can't go over everything in advance before there's a proposal. No, then action must be taken to protect people in the Netherlands from the risk of contamination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u51	If we want to protect our people in the country, care must be taken, in particular, so that it is in order. That is the first step that needs to be taken. That has not been done, it has not been done. Now it is said that action must be taken. Yes, this law acts decisively in restricting the fundamental rights of citizens. That is the wrong way of acting. The right ability to act is to work very hard to get that care up to speed and to ensure that care does not need to be scaled down. These are the measures that need to be taken and not the opportunity to unnecessarily restrict the fundamental rights of citizens, as is the case with this law. I think this is essential, and if this law were to be adopted, which I do not hope, then it is simply necessary to set clear criteria when a certain step can be taken or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u52	At the beginning of Mr Van Hattem's contribution I heard a very lamentable song about the care. In fact, the Minister's policy was also declared bankrupt. What I find so strange is this. If we look at the quality of Dutch healthcare in all international research, we can see that we are always in the top five or the top ten. I don't understand this, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u53	Let's check out the Maasstad Hospital in Rotterdam. That's where the ambulances are now in traffic, because the situation can't be dealt with anymore. The bankruptcy of the care is now simply apparent from the practice. We've been on the road with the corona crisis for over seven months now. Such basic matters are still not in order in the care. You should have made sure this was in order first. I would ask the Minister to put that in place, rather than come up with this bill, with a very strong focus on that 1.5 meter outdoors and the enforcement of everything outside his own home. Make sure that care is put in order first, because at the moment there are just a lot of things not going well. Care for necessary treatments is scaled down and people have to wait longer for all kinds of operations. Then we are talking about a fairly bankrupt health care rather than that great concern which Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union is so proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u54	I see a representative of the people who mentions a number of examples, which are not good and which are rather painful. However, you cannot generalize examples to an assessment of total care. You do, and I'm sorry about that. You are incredibly unjust about this, because care in the Netherlands is still top care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u55	If there is one party that should not talk about injustice in the care, then it is a coalition party. The coalition parties themselves ran out of the Lower House when the people in the care could get a structural raise through a motion. That's why they ran away. We must respect those people in care and ensure that they are appreciated with a raise. We also need to ensure that sufficient investment is made and that there is sufficient capacity to put care in order. Now you act very easily as if there is too little respect for the concern, because I criticise it. If the care was so well in order, then the treatments did not need to be scaled down now. So the case is just out of order. Don't act like nothing's wrong! You as a Christian Union are one of its causes. The coalition parties ran away from the House of Representatives, just when the care could have received the appreciation they deserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u56	Mr. Verkerk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u57	I would like to conclude by pointing out to Mr Van Hattem that we are now holding the debate in the First Chamber and that Mr Van Hattem is not in the Second Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u58	I largely share Mr. Van Hattem's concerns about care and about the fact that there is not enough investment in it. However, my party in the House of Representatives supported the proposal that more money should go to health care and that care should be better organised. And yes, we too believe that the cabinet is to blame for this. However, I am not convinced that you can now say that we do not need to take any more action at all. If we pump enough staff into care, I don't know where they're supposed to come from anyway. The corona virus isn't solved by tomorrow. My question to Mr Van Hattem is: isn't it just a matter of both, namely that we should both invest in care, such as in staff, better remuneration and more capacity, and take the necessary measures, so that care is not burdened too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u59	You did not hear me say that we should not take action. What is now being proposed is a legislative proposal that fundamentally affects the fundamental rights of citizens. It is also codified into a law, so that it is a very strong factor, in which these fundamental rights can be reduced through the legislative process. The PVV really just goes a step too far. That's ten steps too far. We say: we should just focus on care, instead of messing with these fundamental rights now. That is not the most effective way. The effective way is to ensure that care is in order. We can all agree on that. But the law that is now in place is not necessary and is even counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u60	That brings me to another point. I do not quite understand it, because I believe that this law is exactly in line with the Constitution, which states that the restriction of fundamental rights can only be achieved through a legal basis. That legal basis is provided by this law. While the way in which measures are being taken at the moment, without that legal basis, is much more damaging to the Constitution. So I don't understand. If you say that measures need to be taken, then I think that, just when you look at the Constitution, you should think that there should be a legal basis for that. So that's this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u61	It is precisely this law that makes it possible to go a step further in unnecessarily restricting fundamental rights. It opens the door to restricting these fundamental rights. That's a bridge going too far. That is what I have also mentioned in my speech, Mr President, a claim is now being made that, because of the fundamental right to public health, we can restrict other fundamental rights. That is a false contradiction created by this law. We do not want to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mrs. De Boer, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u63	Then we disagree. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u64	That's obvious. You as GroenLinks support this law, the PVV will not support this law. The PVV will never support this emergency law. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then I give the floor to Mr Meijer on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is gratifying that we can have this debate today, not two weeks after the vote in the House of Representatives. In the opinion of the VVD Group, speed and care can best be combined if necessary. For that, you will need the cooperation of everyone. I would therefore like to thank the officials who have answered many of our questions very carefully in the last three days. Thank you for that. This is a fundamental debate. It is about the possibility of temporarily restricting fundamental rights. We would normally take more time for such a debate, but this is not a theoretical scientific debate. We are having this debate during a crisis. Elsewhere in this city and elsewhere in our country, people die from COVID-19, or they lie in hospitals, sometimes on ic. At the moment, it is perhaps the most compelling that the influx of COVID-19 patients stagnates regular care. I say to Mr Van Hattem: even if that care were more extensive and organised, you would at least want to prevent people from getting sick and getting into a hospital or beyond. Care workers become overloaded, entrepreneurs go bankrupt, people become unemployed, older people join forces and the perspective for a generation shifts. I do not want to dramatize, but let us bear this in mind today. A temporary restriction of fundamental rights is not an end in itself, as is believed in many of the e-mails we received. It's like the Minister's after it. No, a temporary restriction of fundamental rights is a means of trying to mitigate all the consequences outlined. That goal connects us all. We can then discuss the proportionality of the use of the measures. This limitation of fundamental rights can only be achieved if the control is well established. That is what is happening in our view with the proposal before us. Today it is not so much about the content of these measures. It is a question of establishing a carefully considered framework. In that consideration, it's balancing. I recognize three balances. Today, it seems to be mainly about the horizontal balance. The balance between action and democracy. The relationship between government and parliament. It will move after the adoption of this bill. I shall come back to that in detail later. There is also a vertical balance, the balance between the government and the security regions and the municipalities. This balance will change the most compared to the last few months if we adopt this law. We have set up the security regions at the beginning of this century in response to some major incidents in order to be better equipped to deal with crises and disasters. It is a good thing to now increase democratic legitimacy at that level. But let us preserve the achievements. Our group is not yet fully aware of this, particularly at a time when the number of infections is falling again, it is not possible to give substance to regional differentiation which has not yet come out well in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u67	I hear the speaker of the VVD just sketching a dilemma between action and democracy. My question is: is the lack of effectiveness of this cabinet, which is obviously present and which makes us one of the worst performing countries in the world in the second wave, according to the VVD, due to the lack of this emergency law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u68	I'm interested in what's in this bill of balance. It is a balance between the powers of the government to take action and to regulate parliamentary control. There are also balance sheets on the content. I'll get to that in a minute. I also mentioned the vertical balance. I did not start the debate to give an opinion on the policies of the last few months. We have talked about this on a regular basis and this has also been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives. It's my job to assess a bill. That is the prime task for the First Chamber. I'm talking about the balance that's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u69	No, you were talking about the balance between action and democracy. This law would be necessary for that. Well, in a country like Germany they haven't introduced all kinds of new laws, not even a law for the corona app or anything like that. There has simply been decisive intervention by democratically legitimized leaders, with the support of the population. I think that is a much more effective means than all kinds of emergency regulations and the granting of special powers. You're talking about action and democracy. One doesn't rule out the other. This drug may be worse than the ailment. This is not the solution to the lack of decisiveness in the cabinet. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u70	In your speech you mention the emergency regulations. That's exactly why this law is there. Over the past period, we have taken measures on the basis of a system that is not designed for a long-term crisis. Now there's a law that improves that, and I'm judging it. That's the law. There's trade-offs in it. I would like to point out, and I will come back to this in a moment, that on that basis we can discuss whether the measures are proportionate. And proportional is indeed how you regulate action and democracy. You are now going to make an assessment of the policy in my words in the last seven months, and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u72	I believe that there is a great deal of support for decisive action and that this emergency law is not necessary at all. If the cabinet focused on action and had made sure that the testing was in order and that in the summer intensive care beds were placed and people were trained... But people have just left things to bed, because the miracle cure of the emergency law would solve it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u73	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u74	Again, one doesn't rule out the other. I think that action can also very well be legitimised democratically. We don't need this law for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u75	I'd be very interested to hear your input in a moment. I would like to know what legislation you intend to implement and what the fundamental rights of citizens are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u76	Please continue your argument, Mr. Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u77	I was talking about the security regions set up to fight crises and disasters. I was in the sense that our group is not yet quite clear on how regional differentiation can be implemented at a time when the number of infections is declining. It is good to lay down more clearly the powers of the mayor. That's what's happening now. But now that the coordinating role of the president of the security region is less well invested, an important link in scaling up and down and regional differentiation is less in position. Article 58d regulates the Minister's ability to designate the Presidents, but the opposite direction is much more non-binding. I would like one of the leaders to respond in a moment to the question of how the security regions remain in position. Then there's a third balance. It is more substantive and concerns health on the one hand and the economic and social functioning of society on the other. In particular, finding that balance sheet is a complex task. When problems seem too complex, I always try to find some relativization myself, and that sometimes offers perspective. You can find that in the present. For example, look at the discussions in other countries. Mr Otten may look at this a little differently, but they do not differ substantially from those of us, even if the legal situation and the administrative culture differ slightly. There is not always an unambiguous relationship between the style and the results of the fight against the pandemic, but I like to hear the rulers reflect on the lessons you can learn from abroad. You can sometimes find this relativization in history. I read a book last summer about the Spanish flu from Laura Spinney. That happened over 100 years ago. Two examples indicate that the dilemmas were exactly the same at the time. In Japan, masks were worn, but there was no agreement as to whether these caps actually obstructed the transfer. In France, the central authorities commissioned the closure of theatres, churches and markets, but this rarely happened because prefects in the French departments did not impose the measures by force, out of fear of getting the public against them. By quarantine and other measures to control the pandemic, the authorities also put the interests of the collective above those of the individual at that time. But the collective can have conflicting interests: health or the economy? More than 100 years ago, during the First World War, there was also an interest in keeping an army on its feet. It is important to avoid violating the rights of individual people and to prevent the authorities from taking advantage of the measures which they must impose in this respect. Mr. Chairman. The force field hasn't changed substantially in 100 years. It is therefore a good thing that today, as has been said, there is a legal basis for this kind of consideration. For the VVD Group, that legal framework is ultimately the safety net. We're primarily concerned with behavior. First of all, the administrative behavior. The administration must take sensible measures based on multidisciplinary scientific understanding. They must be measures that are easy to explain and consistent with each other. Communication is essential for behavioral influence. If rules are not properly explained and if they are not to some extent predictable, they raise resistance or are not respected and confidence crumbles. The VVD Group, like the Minister himself, sees room for improvement on this point. But what applies to the administration also applies to the way individual citizens and organisations deal with the measures. If your behaviour is not understood by other citizens, you should not first try to explain that it is exactly within the rules or refer to a constitutional article that has not been drawn up for the pandemic. No, you adjust your behavior. This certainly applies to people with a national exemplary role, but everyone has an exemplary role for their immediate surroundings. Only by taking on our responsibilities individually can we fight the pandemic. In the end, today is the legal basis for all these checks-and-balances to take place carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u78	What Mr Meijer brings in sounds encouraging. I even thought at first that he would be against this law, but he's correcting himself all the time. But I still have a question. You mentioned the balance between the functioning of society and the measures to be taken. What does the VVD think the law can do in that? Are the measures now being restricted? Is it now limited to maintaining society, to allowing the catering industry and the fairgrounds to continue, which is a good point that has been mentioned as being called "sustainable," and to allow people to live their lives as much as possible? Or do you think that it requires a law and that the cabinet cannot work without this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u79	In recent months, of course, decisions have always been taken which have to do with this balance. From the very beginning, it has been said that the Safety Regions Act and the Public Health Act are written for shorter-term crises and, if action is to be taken in the longer term, a better legal, and hence democratic, basis is needed for the measures to be taken. It's a constant balance. You're looking for how far you need to intervene to maintain health care and fight the pandemic. That is where we are now laying a better legal basis than it was underneath. You have indicated that you are going to vote against, but that means that if measures need to be taken, which in our view have a less good basis than this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u80	So I can conclude that as a VVD you indicate that because of the lack of this law, the government's measures so far have been very cramped and limited and that that is why we are now in the second wave?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u81	You are now putting words in my mouth that I must respond. There's something to say about some of the cabinet business. In my final word, I will say something about that. I just said something about the improvement room in the communication path. We will also talk about communication about this law. Not all the measures taken in recent months needed a legal basis, but I think that some of those measures, especially where they are going to restrict citizens' freedom of movement and affect fundamental rights, need a better legal basis. That's why we're in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr. Van Pareren, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u83	So you're actually saying as a VVD that if this law is passed, there's going to be very radical measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u84	You have a certain way of debating which is a bit difficult, because you twist my words and then say something about them. Then I must repeat that I did not say that. I did not say that very far-reaching measures are going to be taken. In recent months, far-reaching measures have already been taken, at least as I have seen them, and you probably have, in view of your speech. Such measures are also needed in the near future, and we are now laying a better foundation for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u85	Do you have a short last question, Mr. Van Pareren, because this will be your fourth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u86	But are you assuming that the measures have been so limited so far? 'Cause I don't see the difference. You say that I put words in your mouth or translate it into my debate style.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u87	I was referring in particular to the word "campy." I couldn't recognize that in my own text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u88	That's possible because I tell you how I understand what you're saying in my own way. So that doesn't have to be your words. I'm not trying to express your words differently, but I'm trying to make it clear to the people, too, what exactly you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u89	What's your question, Mr. Van Pareren?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u90	The question is, again, the question that is always asked by me. I'd like to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u91	If you repeat your question over and over again, you will receive the same answer every time, so we will be drawing up the time for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u92	No, no, I don't think so. I think that by going deeper and deeper into it, it becomes clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u93	This will be your last chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u94	You indicate that far-reaching measures have been taken so far. I do not understand why these radical measures could not be continued, because I have not seen a great tumult in the courts showing that they could not do so at all and I have not heard the Council of State shout: what is going on here? So that's why my question is: why is all this necessary now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mr. Meijer, briefly, and then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u96	I think I have just tried to point out that what it is now based on, the Public Health Act and the Safety Regions Act, is not sufficient basis for long-term measures that also restrict citizens' freedom of movement and fundamental rights. That is where we are now trying to lay a better legal basis, with more parliamentary involvement as well. Then for me it's not what a court or the Council of State says, but just what our own judgment is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u97	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u98	I was at the piece of democratic legitimacy. I would have stayed with the next sentence. "Democracy restored" was the head of the Volkskrant on 7 October last as a result of the treatment in the Lower House of this law. In our view, that is not so bad. Lector Crisi Control Menno van Duin was right to relate this recently in a blog. If you look only at the powers, it seems that a few ministers, together with 25 mayors in the last few months, have taken care of it all. Inherent to the crisis character it is indeed primarily up to the executive to shape and content the approach to the corona crisis. But the House of Representatives and other mayors, and to varying degrees also municipal councils, although not really legally regulated, have been very intensively involved in dealing with the crisis in recent months. The Lower House has now rightly drawn some more framework powers towards itself, but in the early period this involvement has also been reflected in operational interference, such as with the number of ic-beds. You don't make a motion for that kind of thing. Mr. Chairman. The run-up to this proposal has not gone unnoticed. From the stage of the internet consultation there has been a strong public debate about it. After that consultation phase and after the opinion of the Council of State, the government made substantial adjustments. The most important thing, as far as we are concerned, is the protection of house law, making it impossible to intervene behind the front door. We have taken note of this with our approval. However, there has been a negative atmosphere around the legislative proposal which no longer complies with current content. In the written round, we asked the government to reflect on this point. Frankly, we find the answer somewhat economical. We do know that these were the appropriate steps in the legislative procedure, but sometimes you need to reflect on that. The VVD Group would have chosen to withdraw the legislative proposal after the consultation phase and start the procedure again with a completely new version. We understand, of course, that urgency was the key to ending the long phase of work with emergency regulations, but sometimes it is better to take some time to restore acceptance. How does the government intend to do so, so that the present view of some people that the adoption of this law will not allow the government to intervene unfocusedly and indefinitely in the fundamental rights of individual citizens remains valid? I'd gone back 100 years in time once, and I'm only gonna do it again. Then I come to the German sociologist Max Weber, who, in Politik as Beruf, points out that politicians should not only be guided in their expressions and actions by their intentions, however sincere they may be, but that they should perhaps be even more committed to the effects of what they say and do. At this time of social media, from subtle framing to the deliberate spread of conspiracy theories, the government's intentions are being met. It is also the government's responsibility to update that picture. In our view, this improved communication is not just about good information, but also about groups that have so far been less achieved and why measures are needed. It is also about actively combating disinformation. This legislative proposal explicitly addresses this in addition to the limited degree of digital harassment. Don't be too naive in that. This is an issue which goes far beyond the scope of this legislative proposal. Apart from internet consultation and the advice of the Council of State, the draft law has also been substantially amended by the examination in the Lower House. The VVD Group appreciates those groups in the Lower House who have put aside their political differences for a moment in order to come up with a broad-based proposal after amendment. Especially in times of crisis it is important to look at what connects. I'm just passing through the eight changes. As far as we are concerned, this shows the varying degree of appreciation. At the heart of the amendment is the increase in parliamentary involvement. The right of assent to the ministerial arrangements is, in our view, a clear improvement in democratic legitimacy. In doing so, the government will continue to be able to justify measures in exceptional circumstances but to bring them into force without delay. That may be necessary sometimes. On Thursday we received information from the Council of State. In order to avoid any interruption by Mr Otten, we said at the procedural meeting that we had no objection to this information if it did not affect the timetable. We then respect the question of groups within the Upper Chamber who did need that information. The Council of State states that the right of assent on constitutional grounds does not need to be extended to the Upper Chamber. Our group does not need it either. It would upset the balance between speed of action and democratic legitimacy too much. Nor is it clear what the added value of involvement of the First Chamber could be at this point. We're really too close to the execution. A heavier scaling procedure also means a heavier scaling process. That's not what we want either. The reduction of the duration of the amendment to three months also increases democratic legitimacy and we believe that this is a valid point. Less crucially, our group considers the amendment which gives an opinion to the Advisory Section of the Council of State on the possible extension of the law. It seems to us that an opinion from doctors and behavioral scientists at that time might be more relevant to considering the proportionality of the extension. Replacing the safety net clause is a good thing, if only to remove noise around it. We also agree with the democratic control by municipal councils and the involvement of colleges of B and W, although this has been practice in part. Two amendments are more substantive in nature. It is a good thing that there is now broad agreement on the right of visitors to care facilities. Human contact is essential for well-being. During the first period, the visitation scheme did not go well in all respects and everywhere. That is why it is good that we now have more clarity. Healthcare organisations are more able to fulfil their own responsibilities, and this has helped them. The same applies to the amendment adopted with the first signatory of our party, Mr Veldman, on the reduction of sanctions and the exclusion of the consequences of infringements on the vog. In both cases, the measures have been disproportionate in recent months, with all the consequences for the support for the government's approach. It is good that the House of Representatives has had a corrective influence on this. This proportionality is also reflected in Mrs van der Graaf's amendment and others' amendment on tightening up the requirements of necessity and proportionality that apply when scaling down when possible. A sensible addition. Procedural requirements associated with scaling are likely to prevent a yo-yo policy, but should not, of course, lead to hesitation in scaling down if possible. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can do enough in practice with this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u99	I hear Mr Meijer from the VVD say that some of the measures taken in recent times have been disproportionate. How does this law guarantee that the measures that could be taken in the near future are not disproportionate? I have just heard Mr Meijer say that there are still firm measures to be taken, and the Minister has already mentioned draconian measures. This law does not indicate any indicator of whether a measure is proportionate or disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u100	You have tabled a motion on indicators. I'd like to hear the government's answer to that. I do not think that, in combating a crisis, everything can be shown exactly in figures, and that there is a certain balance to be struck. You asked for guarantees. I'll never give it to you, but I'll give you some commitment. I think that, after the government has reached a certain balance in consultation and on the basis of the opinions I have just given, the ministerial decisions will in any case be sent and the House of Representatives still has a right of assent, which will allow this balance to be reviewed. So I can guarantee that it will be done as carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u101	The fact that the procedure is being carefully followed is what Mr Meijer is talking about; it goes to the House of Representatives and so on may be the case, but whether the nature of the measures is proportionate or disproportionate is not to be derived from anything. We do not have any certainty about this, but it is true that this law basically restricts fundamental rights. This is an important factor which should be clarified a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u102	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u103	Or perhaps we will be standing here again in a few months' time and Mr Meijer of the VVD once again makes the point that some of the measures have been disproportionate over the past period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u104	I just indicated that not everything is in numbers. In my speech I did mention the word 'predictability'. Because of the dashboards and the Irish model, there is a bit of an expectation about what will or will not happen; I have already been helped with that. I do not know whether all of these should be included in the law, but it is useful if there is such a balancing framework when preparing ministerial arrangements. I agree with you that the predictability could be a little greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u105	I heard Mr Meijer speak a bit back in his speech about whether or not the First Chamber is involved in agreement with the ministerial regulations. He said that the VVD didn't think that should happen, because the Upper House would actually be too close to the execution. It is true that ministerial regulations in general are about real implementations, technical regulations and so on. However, I would like to ask Mr Meijer to clarify once again what he means in this case by 'too close to implementation', since the ministerial regulations do not concern implementation at all but are actually aimed at indicating whether boys will be allowed to play football outside together, whether I can sit next to my granddaughter on a bench. The rules governing our freedom of movement, so to speak, are actually laid down in those ministerial regulations. That's not execution, is it? Isn't that something that we as the First Chamber should be fully involved in? So I would like to have a further explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u106	But I don't know if the word "execution" is the best word. Maybe I should use "operational" or whatever as a word. This is what I'm talking about. The information provided by the Council of State is a good indication of this. In general, parliamentary involvement in ministerial arrangements is limited. There is also a great diversity in this. There is also a distinction between the First and Second Chambers. We are now faced with a crisis that requires vigorous action. Then I look at proportionality, including the involvement of the First Chamber. I am particularly looking at the added value: are we going to repeat the debate from the House of Representatives once again, while measures are needed? I don't think that's such an added value. I pay very close attention to the added value of this Chamber. In the first year I have been here, I think that we have added value to the House of Representatives, for example in the way in which we have dealt with the report of the Remkes State Commission on the parliamentary system and in how we look at the system revision of the Environment Act. I don't see it at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u107	Your party is in favour of democracy, at least that is what it says in the name of your party. Democracy means that there is parliamentary involvement when freedom of movement and fundamental rights are at stake, so to speak. It is true that a right of assent, so to speak, does not actually exist in ministerial arrangements, but the whole situation we are talking about has not happened before. We are talking about the situation that ministers are going to intervene in the exercise of our fundamental rights. Isn't that what democracy is all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u108	That's your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u109	Once again, it is not implementation, but it is actually the case that the ministerial regulation only shows what our rights are that we are allowed to exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mr Meijer, and then we have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u111	You're already giving a nice insight into your contribution in the near future, I suppose. I see that we weigh this differently. I distance myself from the fact that it would not make me democratic. I've just read the Council of State briefing. There are many ways of shaping parliamentary involvement. This is the one for which the House of Representatives has elected, by means of the amendment. We can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u112	I will now leave Mr Meijer to finish his speech, because we are now 15 minutes behind. After Mr Meijer has finished his speech, let me see if there is still time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman, closing up, what a beautiful interplay! The VVD Group greatly appreciates the commitment of the various rulers during this pandemic. It sometimes raises expectations that cannot be met as quickly as possible, loses sight of proportionality and disproportionately affects certain sectors of society, but insists on working together to minimise the damage to our society in every way possible. That is what we, as Parliament, have in common. It is up to Parliament to keep a critical eye on the government. We are pleased that there is now a temporary law allowing everyone to play their part and to find a careful balance between action and democratic legitimacy. Mr. Chairman. We await with interest the response of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Then there is a short time for two short interruptions: one from Mr. Otten and one from Mr. Van Pareren. Mr. Otten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u115	'Deathpower and democracy', I have now heard about Mr Meijer's speech at the beginning and at the end. Suppose we had this law in March. What do you think would have been avoided? Wouldn't it have gotten out of hand with this law? Explain that because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u116	In general, I do not go into questions about the future, and now this question is even asked about the past. The measures taken at that time and with which the presidents of the security regions were given proper powers would then have been taken on the basis of this law. Parliamentary discussions on sets of measures would therefore have taken place in advance. I do not go into the content and whether it would have been better or worse, but it was procedurally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr. Otten, do you have a quick second question? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u118	You said this law increases the power of the cabinet. So you cannot specify where the law will increase the effectiveness. You might be able to rake the administrative garden of the Netherlands with it so that everyone does their thing that they have to do by the book, but that doesn't really help us in the fight against corona? Would you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u119	I think that you are wronging our democratic system by calling it "marcing the garden," so I quite clearly distance myself from that. It is not a question of assessing past action; it is a question of the possibility for the government to take action; that is what I call decisiveness; and that is what Parliament is controlling. That balance is what we're talking about here. That is not an assessment of the government's individual or collective actions over the last seven months. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u120	Another third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u121	Finally, Mr President. If the corona crisis has shown anything, then it is that the administrative garden is completely undergrowth and that there is another administrative model in the Netherlands, but it is on a democratically motivated basis, for example by elected mayors. Look at other countries, where there is more support, for example Sweden and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u122	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u123	You don't explain to me how this law solves that problem. I do not hear that from Mr Meijer of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u124	Then there is Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u125	Eventually it was a question, but I don't think we're going to discuss the administrative system in the Netherlands and the elected mayor here. We are ensuring that the way in which the crisis is addressed within the current system is given a more solid legal basis. That is the content of the debate today. That's what I was reflecting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u126	These are interesting findings that are discussed here. I had another question. You mentioned disinformation earlier in your speech. What did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u127	That some people who I think know better are responding to earlier versions of the law at the moment. That's what I call disinformation. But I told you, this is beyond today's subject. Maybe on Sunday I can point out to Lubach last week that there is disinformation in areas other than this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u128	Then I understand that you mean the disinformation that Mr. Lubach has reported. Or do you mean the disinformation of the cabinet? I don't understand yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u129	In the social debate there is also information about this law, which is not entirely based on the current state of affairs. I think that's a bit of disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mr. Van Pareren, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u131	And in a democracy, is it not possible to just hear the voice of the different people without immediately labeling them as disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mr. Meijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u133	I would like it if we could just exchange views on the basis of correct information. That increases the quality of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u134	I have the following question for Mr Meijer. Mr Nicolaï talked about implementing measures that could affect fundamental rights in this case. He was talking about kids playing outside or not. What do you think of the House of Representatives saying to the First Chamber: why don't you guys go outside and play? That's weird, isn't it? If this was not an emergency law, which it is, and if we had a little more time for careful consideration, would you agree with my group that we could consider removing the Buitenweg amendment with a novelle before it comes to the vote? In recent years, there have been a number of precedents in the field of tax legislation and pension legislation. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u135	I think I gave that answer in my speech. There are many possibilities to regulate parliamentary involvement in ministerial arrangements. First Chamber and House of Representatives The information of the Council of State also gives that to the Court of Justice do not always have exactly the same instruments. Mr Recourt pointed out in an interruption that we still have the constitutional instruments to say something about this if we do not like it in a ministerial arrangement before the House of Representatives. So I think it's possible. Originally, there was no parliamentary involvement at all. That would have been possible. In the end, the Lower House has chosen to place only the right of assent with the Lower House and we can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u136	The Constitution is very clear about intervention in the event of emergency measures in fundamental rights. In any case, this is the case in degrees, including in ministerial arrangements. Do you not think that the instrument of de novelle belongs to the First Chamber and that the First Chamber should, as Vondeling once said in the Second Chamber, maintain parliamentary democracy in its fundamental rights? We should not give the impression that if the House of Representatives takes us out of line, we will actually tolerate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u137	That's all your own coloring. I remember from the time when you yourself had government responsibility the Authorization Act in 1974. At that time there were also differences in the powers of the Second and First Chambers and that all worked out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u138	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u139	The Council of State has also referred to this. That's not unknown to me. I've been a part of the cradle in those weeks. I became Secretary of State in the middle of the carless Sunday, to name one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u140	Very briefly, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u141	I didn't drive the driver on Sunday. I took the bike to the Treasury. But this is, of course, very essential. You can call it the Authorization Act, but again the question... You say the First Chamber shouldn't be too close to execution. But do you agree with me that when it comes to fundamental rights, we should be able to use all the constitutional means and not say: well, sometimes we shouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u142	Mr. Meijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u143	I don't think I'm going with the motion or the novel. That is clear from my speech. It's gonna be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u144	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. I would like to give the floor to Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing urgently with a temporary law providing the legal basis for measures to combat the coronavirus. It is important to note that the legislative proposal does not propose any concrete measures, but does outline the frameworks. The practical implementation per measure is separate and subject to parliamentary control. I will dwell on that in detail later. First of all, I would like to mention the people in the Netherlands, who are deeply affected by the virus and by the measures taken against it. According to CBS, more than 10,000 people died from the coronavirus in the first half of this year. Their neighbors, their family, etc., have been left with grief. Almost 300,000 people have since been infected or infected with the virus. When you think about all those employees in the care, who have done their utmost to fight the disease, sometimes at risk for your own life... When you think about students who, during their education, are barely physically taught but are mostly in their room behind their computer, who can no longer find an internship place because many potential internship counselors work at home... When you think of young people who see opportunities in the labour market at risk... Fortunately, most schools are open again, but it was very difficult for parents, teachers, teachers and students, especially during the first wave of the virus. I am also thinking ofzzp'ers who saw their income dry up and now rely on state aid. Measures in the arts and culture sector have hit hard. Entrepreneurs, for example in the catering industry, see their turnover plummet and fear bankruptcy. The event business has been seriously affected. Due to the limitations of the group size it is no longer possible to express emotions together in a large group. Think of funerals, for example. You hear stories about loneliness, about how people should miss physical contact and become depressed because of the distance of 1.5 meters. This applies in particular to young people, but also to older people and other vulnerable groups, such as addicts and homeless people. They're having a hard time, too. I could go on like this for a while. We're all in the same coronastorm, but we don't all have the same hiding place. In order to combat the virus, which is dangerous, which can cause serious disease and causes fatalities, measures must sometimes be taken to intervene deeply in people's daily lives. These measures have already been mentioned in this debate and affect the fundamental rights of everyone in the Netherlands. We in D66 therefore welcome the fact that we are leaving the period of emergency regulations behind and that the measures contained in this bill are given a legal basis so that we in Parliament can carefully consider whether what is being proposed is really necessary. If only at all possible, we must choose the latter in the balance between public health and our freedoms, as enshrined in fundamental rights. But the health situation in this pandemic must, of course, make that possible. First of all, I would like to focus on the legislative process. The original bill, as it was given in consultation, was flawed. There was a lot of criticism from organizations, from legal scholars and from the Council of State. The emotions in society were high: the Netherlands would become a dictatorship, the minister would rule by decree, the parliament would be out of play and people would be unnecessarily deprived of their freedoms. There was a lot of distrust and incomprehension, stirred up by fake news, vanity in talk shows on television and algorithms in social media. We have received many critical e-mails from people who claim everything and call on us to vote against the law, but who often still refer to the run-up to this legislative process and do not seem to be fully aware of what has been done and improved by amending the law in the Lower House. Fortunately, the government has amended the bill in a number of parts, but that was not enough in D66's view. It couldn't pass the test of criticism. That is why we are pleased that the House of Representatives has improved the bill on many points through a united cooperation between coalition parties and a number of opposition parties. It is good to see that, in times of crisis, cooperation over the fences of party politics has proved possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u146	It is a clear story from Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u148	It's not over yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u149	You're so kind to me. Did D66 actually ever ask yourself, 'cause you're also in the government, how did it come to such a law that was so overwhelming? It must not have surprised you as a party, I think, that the government you are in is coming up with such a law. Yet you were surprised as a room. How'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u150	It's interesting that you say I'm in the government. No, I'm a people's representative. I'm just checking on the government. My thesis is that a legislative proposal was given in consultation, but was not presented. That is a key point, which caused a lot of commotion. We talked about it in the Lower House and also in the Upper Chamber, and we had the written preparation. It could have been better. I see it as a reckless legislative process, which has ultimately led to a satisfactory outcome in our view by means of joint forces in the House of Representatives with amendments. I would like to say that we cannot afford to do this again if there is ever another health pandemic. This is actually my answer to your question, which I would also like to pass on to the government. How does the government view the legislative process as it has gone? We know, of course, that the government itself says it should have been different and better. I would like to know from the government what conclusions it draws from the unfortunate start of this legislative process. I would really like to see, for example, the Security Research Council, which is going to examine this bill and its run-up to it or is already investigating it, take this point with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u151	I'm glad to hear you're looking at it this way. I am actually surprised that you also think that this consultation process, which has caused so much unrest in society since May, should be avoided in the future. I have another question. The new law clearly states that the Minister is in an emergency situation, and we have had a temporary emergency regulation, so we should be able to intervene on our own. The Minister also said that he would not hesitate to do so. How do you feel about this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u152	It's a good thing this is in there. What if there's a huge fireplace and everything has to happen? Then action must be taken. I believe that the Minister himself has said that. We can hold all kinds of meetings, but that is not how we fight the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u153	Finally, Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u154	I think that's a wonderful answer. Only that could mean that the Minister would immediately bomb any situation into an emergency. So you think it's wonderful that at a time like this, in such a situation, this can happen with such action. Because that's the possibility the law offers. So you're saying this is what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u155	No, no, no, no. You're charging here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u156	I give the floor to Mr Dittrich to reply, who then continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u157	I have the feeling that Mr Van Pareren is blaming my answer and has not read the law properly either. It is, of course, a matter of really acute emergency situations. We have a government for that. A government must govern and act, but that does not mean, of course, that we sit back and let everything pass over us without a hitch. No, this bill allows Parliament, especially the Lower House, but also the Upper House, to say: hoho, we do not agree; this should be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u158	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u159	Mr Van Pareren brings me to the issue of public acceptance, so I am pleased that he has asked me that question. In a crisis, the government must, of course, act decisively and lead the way. That's one side of the story. On the other hand, the measures must be both necessary, careful, reasonable and proportionate and must comply with the principle of subsidiarity. That's the other side of the story. We understand very well that it is sometimes a bit of a search for that balance, if the government learns from what went wrong and communicates about it clearly. The number of corona virus infections is rising alarmingly. The test policy is not yet in order. I notice that when it comes to testing streets, it's always about testing streets for people sitting in cars. However, there are also a lot of people who use public transport. For them, there are a few fewer test stretches. Also the source and contact research is not as it should be. Some of the measures are unclear in their impact. The EU countries have different policies on a number of points, although they are largely based on the same data. People don't understand that. All of this is grumpy and undermines the support for the necessary measures to be taken. In short, good communication is important. My question to the government is: how will the government work to increase public support? What will the government change in today's communication after the legislative proposal has come into force and the proposed measures will be approved separately by Parliament? Because trust is, of course, the cement of democracy. This confidence must be restored and restored in large parts of society. That is why we think it is right for the government to come up with such a roadmap. It offers perspective to people. Then they know what kind of measures can be taken if the level of infection is at a certain level. From that perspective, people can take some hold in these uncertain times. The House of Representatives has therefore amended the bill. Important improvements have been made in our view. I'd like to mention a few of them. First of all, I would like to mention the issue of parliamentary control. I would like to make a comment on that right away. As a group in the First Chamber, we felt some discomfort, because the Eerste Kamer, because of Mrs Buitenweg's amendment in the Second Chamber, did not have the right to block measures within one week from Article 58c (2) and (3) as opposed to the Second Chamber. We have therefore supported the request of the SP in the First Chamber to ask for information. We thought it was important to hear what the Council of State was about. This information came a few days ago and it has already been said in the debate: the Council of State believes that the chosen structure is legally sustainable. At the same time, I support Mr Recourt's analysis here in the Upper House. Of course, the First Chamber retains its normal control rights. So I can say here that the D66 Group can follow the advice of the Council of State, because these are urgent measures within the framework of a very temporary law. It's not like the First Chamber is gonna be out of the game empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u160	I should like to comment on Mr Dittrich's speech on the Council of State. As I have pointed out before, there is a kind of desire here in certain political groups to channel the mandate of the representative of the people to the Council of State, which has not been elected. We were elected by the Dutch electorate. As far as we are concerned, we are taking the advice of the Council of State side by side and we are going to proceed with a procedure to rectify it, either by means of a novelle or by means of a motion. This is such a far-reaching law that the First Chamber must also be known in the difficult procedure for the ministerial settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u161	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u162	Does Mr Dittrich support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u163	No, I don't support that, and I'll explain why not. The Council of State has been given an important role in our Constitution, namely to advise, in particular as regards legislation, so that the Second and First Chambers can take advantage of it. That is also why we supported the request for advice from the Council of State. You didn't agree; we did. We want to do our job as representatives of the people well and carefully. We need an opinion from the Council of State. And then we're gonna deal with whether we're gonna follow that or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u164	Yes, but I was talking about democratic legitimacy. You're Democrat Party '66. Now we are putting ourselves as First Chamber out of the most sweeping law since the Second World War, perhaps with the exception of the oil crisis in '73. Why do you go blind on the Council of State and do not accept your own democratic responsibility, I ask Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u165	This really is a distortion of reality. The Constitution, in which the Council of State was given this important task, has been democratically established. That is our Constitution! How can you just put that aside?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u166	Mr Otten, finally and thirdly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u167	I'm not talking about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u168	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u169	I am talking about the emergency regulation, whereby the House of Representatives dismisses the First Chamber. You can also question this, on the basis of the Constitution. As far as we are concerned, we stand up for our role as First Chamber and let us not be sidelined by the Council of State. I will come back to that in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u170	I am very curious about what Mr Otten thinks about this, but I would like to point out that it is not the case that we have been sidelined or that we have been sidelined. It is true that Mrs Buitenweg's amendment specifically gave the House of Representatives that power, but as Mr Recourt also said, the Council of State also says, of course, that we also have our rights. We can ask the government questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u172	... and if we disagree, we can table motions and you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u173	I have two questions for Mr Dittrich. The first question concerns questions of advice to the Council of State. I was happy about that on my own. The information question was: do you want to look legal and constitutional? They did. They have said that it is constitutionally correct, but they have not done enough. They then said that we also think it is justifiable as it is going to be regulated now. But that was not asked at all, so my first question to Mr Dittrich is: what does he think of that? Aren't they just out of line? Then there's my second question. Of course, as Mr Recourt also says, we can still call the ministers, the government, to account. That applies to us and that also applies to the House of Representatives. Do I have to draw your attention to the fact that you say: well, that right of assent was not really necessary, because the House of Representatives already had sufficient resources, as did the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u174	Thank you. Can you try to reply briefly and include both answers in one answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u175	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of our principles, we appreciate the advice of the Council of State. We went into that with open eyes, albeit with a certain inconvenience because the Lower House has been given a power and the Upper Chamber has not. That is why we wanted to hear from the Council of State how the Council of State views this. This has been the subject of an opinion. We believe that this is somewhat convincing, at least to a sufficient extent to say that we are continuing on this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u176	Mr. Nicolaï. Finally, because those were already two questions and this is going to be the third one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u177	Yeah, but my question hasn't been answered at all. My first question was: does the Council of State not go beyond what was requested? That's one. Two. Does Mr Dittrich actually say that the right of assent was not necessary for the Lower House, because she has all the powers to hold the government accountable? That is what Mr Dittrich is calling upon, and that is what we have as the First Chamber. Both questions have still not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u178	Let me now turn to the second question. We are currently working on the basis of emergency regulations and neither the Lower House nor the Upper House has much to do with this. This bill provides a legal basis for action to be taken. A certain arrangement is made for this, so that there is parliamentary control and in some situations only involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u179	In my own contribution, I will come back to how the cabinet deals with the wishes of the majority of this Chamber who has been voted on in the motion, but I will do so in a moment. Actually, I have another question. Mr Dittrich began with the inconvenience of his group in the Buitenweg amendment. My question is: does the D66 Group feel the same inconvenience in the absence of constitutionally restrictive measures contained in this law and which need to be renewed? Is there the same inconvenience there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u180	If the government comes up with a proposal to extend this temporary law of three months, we as a group in the First Chamber will look very carefully at it. I also assume, and hope to get your support for this, that we will discuss with the government in the First Chamber whether we still consider it necessary. After all, we are talking about violations of fundamental rights, which apply to everyone in the Netherlands, so we need to look at them very carefully. Of course, we are not going to let ourselves be put aside in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u181	Do I hear Mr Dittrich say that if a majority of this House makes a statement in a motion, it should be implemented? Because if that doesn't happen, let's get out of the way. And wouldn't controlling control be much better as these are fundamental rights-limiting measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u182	I think that's an interesting point. I would like to pass that on to the government through you, because I would like to hear an answer to that. Let's say the House of Representatives is okay with a measure or a law, and we in the First Chamber would decide that we don't like it. Then we could table a motion in which we call on the cabinet not to go any further and there could be a situation that the House of Representatives thinks differently on a concrete point than the House of Representatives. Then the question to the government is how it deals with it. I'd like to hear the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u183	Mr. Janssen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u184	That goes without saying my question. My question was actually about extending the law. This is about the measures and what the Buitenweg amendment deals with. My question is about extending the law. Does the D66 Group consider it sufficient that this should only be done in front of the wall or that the KB should only be sent to both Chambers for inspection, without us having decisive control of it? In my own contribution, I will come back to how this might possibly relate to Article 103 of the Constitution. Do you think that's enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u185	If the cabinet sends a letter or a KB and there is a debate with the cabinet in both the Lower House and the First Chamber on whether it is still necessary for the law to be extended, then we simply have our rights. We can say, for example, that we do not think it should be extended. And when the cabinet says, "Well, we're just gonna keep going," while the Lower House and the Upper House disagree, that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u186	Please continue your speech. Oh, Mr. Van Rooijen wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u187	I have one more question. What do you think of the fact that the House of Representatives has said about the extension: this can be done with a slight veil as far as we are concerned? An amendment for a heavy veil was even rejected. Do you not think that this should be a heavy veil and that we should therefore ensure that the government does so together with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u188	I believe that much information from the government should come to Parliament, to the Second and Upper Chambers. Actually, that's been the case so far. In addition, I would like to make a note: the Lower House is of course full-time and the Upper House is a part-time part of Parliament. We meet formally only one day a week, so we should not want to play Lower House either. In particular, we have the task of making sure that laws are properly implemented. That is what we need to focus on in particular. Policy debates take place a priori in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u189	I repeat the question. Don't you think that even the First Chamber should have the right to exercise its constitutional right by means of a heavy suspension procedure? The Constitution makes no difference between full-time and part-time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u190	No, my point is that the Constitution gives us powers. We are the ones who must, can and will make use of these powers. On behalf of the D66 Group, I can tell you that we will certainly do the same if we believe that the government is coming up with proposals that we do not agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u191	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u192	Another variant. If I understand correctly, you're not much for a novelle. The VVD Group is not in favour of that either. Do you think that if that heavy veil were not to come, we might have to use the novelle's instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u193	Those are the like-dan questions. You're right we don't see so much in a novelle. We are dealing with a pandemic and we want action to be taken, of course by parliamentary control. If a novelle were to come, it would mean that the law would have to be taken back. Then everything has to be arranged again. In the meantime, we will continue to deal with this issue on the basis of emergency regulations. We're not okay with that. This law regulates, to name but a few, a different division of powers when it comes to mayors and presidents of security regions. The municipal councils are also given more democratic control. We all think that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u194	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u195	Mr. Chairman. I do have a question about Rule 58c (4). This states that 50 members of the House of Representatives must propose to take a decision rejecting or approving the proposed measure. The assent decision itself must of course have a majority. Do we see it right that smaller parties in the House of Representatives, who together will not reach the threshold of 50, will no longer be able to express their views on the non-acceptance of a proposed measure in a debate? Our question, in particular to the Minister of the Interior, is: does this threshold of 50 introduced by the House of Representatives not cover the government's obligation to inform the two Chambers under Article 68 of the Constitution? Mr. Chairman. A second plus of the bill is that thanks to the fraction of 50PLUS people living in a nursing home or nursing home are always entitled to a visit from a close friend, unless there are truly exceptional circumstances. And when someone is dying, visitation is always possible. We see that it gives peace and quiet that this is included in the legal text of Article 58o (5). It prevents painful and sad situations, as we saw in spring. But I still have a number of questions that have arisen from practice about keeping individual patients in a nursing home if they do not agree with that. For this, there are two options, namely through isolation or quarantine measures that are contained in the Public Health Act, or through the freedom-limiting measures contained in the Health and Force Act or in the Mental Health Act. But what if a psychogeriatric patient has to stay in a cohort ward because of an infection? Is that under the regime of the Public Health Act or the Health and Force Act? The Public Health Act runs through the security region and the mayor, but with the Health and Force Act it is more the care institution that makes a decision, but it is based on a complex procedure. Which way should a care institution choose in such a situation? And what's the choice if it's a willingly qualified nursing home patient who, for example, doesn't care about corona and therefore doesn't want to go to that cohort department at all? Then there's a question about the test policy in nursing homes. Because of physical integrity, a patient cannot be forced to undergo a test, but if the test is refused, the patient can thus cross the anti-contamination policy on the spot. Will a test be enforced on the basis of the Health and Force Act? Or should the patient be considered infected as a precaution? If that is the case, there is a real dilemma, because in the latter case nursing in a cohort department is harmful to that patient, because if he is not infected himself, he may still be infected there. I'd like a response from the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u196	I will come back to the heavy front, which Mr Van Rooijen has just mentioned. I see Mr Dittrich making difficult faces. I have just looked very quickly at what kind of heavy suspension procedures D66 has agreed, among other things, on motions and amendments in the House of Representatives. This was the case recently with the Bishop's amendment on the Sixth Nitrate Directive, which has to be passed by both chambers. So that's a heavy front. For people who do not know the concept: something can only happen if both the Lower House and the Upper House agree. But I also mention, for example, Mr Weverling, who tabled an amendment to the Telecommunications Act for a heavy veil. That means it has to go through the Second and the First Chambers first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u197	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u198	Why does D66 agree to this kind of important matter... they are important matters, but they are relatively incomparable to this important emergency law, this emergency law... with a heavy veil, but does D66 not think it is so important in this more or less controversial law since the Second World War? Why don't you explain that to me? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u199	I'd like to explain that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u200	But briefly, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u201	Oh, that's too bad. We're dealing with a pandemic. Action must be taken, decisively, with parliamentary control. Then it is about something quite different from the law on telecommunications or the Digital Government Act, which deals with pending procedures. This is a crisis in which thousands of people die in the Netherlands, in which hundreds of thousands of people are infected with the coronavirus. Action must be taken, and then you cannot keep meeting and meeting all the time. We agree with the regime as proposed by this temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u202	As Mr Dittrich knows, I am not at all in favour of endless meetings. I had also hoped that the cabinet would have intervened much more decisively in the summer and prepared for the second wave, but that did not happen. That is why I repeat my question to you. I also asked Mr Meijer of the VVD. If this law had been there in April, what would you say would have prevented what has happened now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u203	We are talking about public health, about contamination sites and the degree of contamination that is increasing, which means that certain measures are still in place. Now you're going to ask me, "If we had that law then, what else would there have been?', But that's a completely wrong question. What is different is that there would then be a legal basis, so that we, as representatives of the people of all those potential patients and their families, could have the debate here in the Chamber and then at some point come to a decision: 'government, go on doing what you are doing' or 'do it differently'. Then there is parliamentary involvement, which you should also find an important thing, rather than emergency regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u204	Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u205	I think parliamentary involvement is essential. That is why I also want that heavy veil, so that the First Chamber has the right of assent if this law is to be renewed. This is a temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u206	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u207	We all know that temporary laws last forever. Once again, will Mr Dittrich support that? Mr Van Rooijen has already supported this, and I expect support from others. Do you support the fact that, for example, we are being modified by means of a novellle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u208	You repeat the question of others. The answer is, no, we're not going to support that. But, of course, we will look very carefully at the government's renewal proposals and take responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u209	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u210	And, of course, according to the regime of this law and the Constitution, we also have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u211	I fully agree with Mr Dittrich that speed must be at the forefront of this emergency. But what would be against having the Second and the First Chamber meet in an emergency? In 2017 the own risk would be increased by €15 and I remember that the Second and First Chambers did not allow that to happen within one day by law. Where there is a will, there is a way, and speed and parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u212	I agree with Mr Van Rooijen on that again. I am not against speed at all, but I would add that the First Chamber should also look carefully, especially at legislative proposals. But it may well be that within a week of a measure being taken, for example, we also say in the First Chamber: we want to have a debate on this with the government. That doesn't rule out the bill at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u213	In view of the time, I suggest that Mr Dittrich finish his speech first. Let's see if there's time for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u214	Mr President, I shall proceed quickly, because I have another question for the Minister on Rule 58o (5) (c) and (d) for the purposes of legal history. Can he indicate that in this article "Customer-confidence access" means access to the client as a person and to the location, and where physically possible? Because we have been told from practice that in many healthcare establishments where the doors are closed due to infections, the client-confidence person is denied access. As a result, the client confidence person cannot support the client's legal position. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Mr. Chairman. The third plus of this bill is that infringement of the one-and-a-half-metre measure or group size measure and such criminal law is addressed less harshly compared to the original bill. That also makes sense, because they are natural and self-evident behaviors of people: want to touch each other for a moment and seek each other out. For the purpose of combating infections, measures prohibit natural behavior. But the amendment in the House of Representatives decided that the fine would be reduced, that it would no longer be recorded in the judicial documentation and that the fines would no longer be taken into account in obtaining or not obtaining a statement of conduct. We very much agree with that. A fourth plus of the bill as it stands are the extensive reports of the government to the Second and First Chambers. As far as renewal is concerned, we read that the Council of State is being asked for its opinion. That's all being sent to the Rooms. Well, that's a good idea. Finally. The fifth plus I would like to mention is that the powers under this law should only be applied when they are necessary and in accordance with the democratic rule of law, with proportionality and subsidiarity. We believe that this is a good framework and a guarantee against unbridled restrictions on fundamental rights. Because the parliament still keeps its finger on the wrist. That is why we believe that this framework law is logical and balanced. We believe that this is a major improvement compared to the emergency period. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask one more question about the repression in health care. That's really high on us. Indeed, we are following the alarming reports that in hospitals the number of corona patients is increasing and there is therefore too little capacity for regular healthcare. Operations are being postponed. Patients other than corona patients are getting into trouble. We also see that even the population research on cancer has been scaled down. It's really very painful. We have asked questions about this in writing. The Minister replied, and I quote: 'Everything is done to prevent health damage and/or loss of life years as much as possible'. My question to the Minister is as follows. Isn't everyone in the Netherlands entitled to the highest standard of available healthcare? Isn't everyone also supposed to have equal opportunities for health care? I would therefore ask the Minister to reflect on this in detail and to explain how this displacement is being countered, because that is really something that concerns a lot of people in society. Mr President, my final conclusion. The containment of the corona epidemic also has an important part to do with how we as residents of the Netherlands deal with the basic rules of keeping safe distance, washing hands, staying at home in case of complaints, working at home, not making unnecessary trips, avoiding crowds and you name it. The framework of the bill we are discussing today is a final piece of it. I would like to say that the future without corona is not before us, but that future lies within ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u215	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the SGP, because unfortunately there is no longer time for interruptions. After all, it is also my responsibility to ensure that you are due for lunch later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u216	Mr. Chairman. The headline of an editorial commentary in the NRC was striking: "Chaotically prepared law has still become a good law thanks to Lower House." The SGP shares this observation. In the Upper House we are not always happy with an enthusiastic remodeling of legislation by the Lower House. Not every accepted amendment is always an improvement of the law. But here the House of Representatives has done a good job. This compliment applies to the end result, but also to the method shown. Coalition and opposition parties have joined forces and taken on their joint responsibility as co-legislators. And rightly so: it was not for nothing about the rights of people's representatives. It is equally good to note that the commitment to public health and to the protection of life is linked in this way. It transcends contradictions and party political calculations. With this in my view, the House of Representatives has given a nice testimony to a society that is characterised by great differences and contradictions. From different perspectives you can apparently find the good for society together. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, deeply sad that the law is not obsolete or superfluous. Unfortunately, corona doesn't belong to the past tense. Hospitals are seriously overloaded. And don't forget that the ic-capacity is being retested. But given that sad context, the SGP is pleased that we can now talk about this law and say goodbye to the emergency regulations. The kick-off for this was also in a joint Lower House motion of SGP and D66; here again a surprising collaboration. It has already been pointed out by many lawyers: at the beginning of a crisis, it is logical, even necessary, that a government should be able to react quickly and directly, with the necessary detachment from all kinds of usual procedures under the democratic rule of law. Without any democratic legitimacy, the country was locked up in the spring. Understandable, but such an exception should, in principle, be as short as possible. We can't keep running the country through emergency regulations. Just in times of crisis, when unusual action is required, control of power is basic. Mr. Chairman. This law finally provides a sound legal basis for the far-reaching measures to combat COOVID-19. This required a thorough renovation, forced by the House of Representatives, of the original legislative proposal, in particular as regards the supervisory powers of the parliament. What are the ministers' views on this? The criticism received by the cabinet on the draft proposal was not wrong. In my view, it was noted earlier and the cabinet had also done wiser to repeal the then draft law and bring an entirely new proposal into procedure from the outset. All roads sounded the reproach that the cabinet committed a kind of putsch, a questionable take-over of power and improperly drew a lot of power towards itself. Can the cabinet, looking back, see that this criticism was justified and should have been different and better? In other words, is the cabinet now also very happy with the current legislative proposal? Mr. Chairman. As far as the SGP is concerned, the legislative proposal has also been significantly improved by the adopted amendment. For example, the involvement of parliament and municipal councils has been increased. The fact that the Second and First Chambers are not treated equally in all cases is not a problem for the SGP in advance. In addition, the safeguards laid down in the law to protect fundamental rights have been strengthened. This is expressed, among other things, in relation to divine services, but also in relation to the visit to the elderly and the vulnerable. And there won't be a vaccination obligation. For the SGP, it is extremely relevant that not the government but the parliament should have the final say on strengthening the measures. The procedure for extending the legislative proposal has also been strengthened. Amendment strengthened Parliament's obligation to provide information and clarified the path towards ending the restriction of fundamental rights. In this context, the Council of State will give its opinion on the necessity and proportionality of the measures in force whenever the Cabinet intends to extend the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the SGP securely looked at what was laid down in the bill in respect of homes and churches, two domains which in principle form a government-free space, covered by constitutional protection. The freedom to serve God in accordance with His word deserves all the protection of the government. The cabinet honours this special position, for example when it comes to abandoning maximum limits for church services. I would also like to mention the restrictive explanation given by the Minister to Article 58n, which states that the mayor may give orders in emergency situations in respect of private places. I appreciate the Minister's willingness to answer the written questions in detail. The Minister is right to stress that these are very exceptional and acute situations. There must be immediate danger. In addition, the Minister acknowledges that Article 58n does not confer authority to enter into areas where a meeting of a religious or philosophical nature is taking place. I welcome the extreme restraint expressed by the Minister. But what are all these beautiful choices worth when public opinion moves? I refer to the massive pressure exerted on churches, including by the government, to take further far-reaching measures with regard to the maximum number of churchgoers. Paper is patient, but what does the protection of fundamental rights, as stated in the temporary law, do if very far-reaching advice is given under great pressure to re-establish maximum limits? Is the government willing to continue looking for tailor-made arrangements for meetings of larger ecclesiastical communities? When the winds of public opinion rise, does the Minister stand for this constitutional protection? I say something similar with regard to a vaccination obligation. The cabinet doesn't want an obligation. However, I have already read from airlines that might want to prevent unvaccinated people. I call it the bill to ban unvaccinated children from child care. It's all very well to live with. Flying is bad for the environment and the best childcare takes place by the parents themselves. But suppose people are excluded from more basic facilities, touching on work, care or education. In what way does the Minister stand for constitutional protection, both in spirit and in letter? The temporary law cannot be temporary enough with regard to the SGP. The measures intervene deeply in our economy and society. The government often refers to vaccination as the main asset in the fight against the coronavirus. However, it is also important to provide a perspective as to the duration and extent of the corona measures in the period before and after the introduction of a vaccine. After all, even when a vaccine against corona is found, measures are likely to be necessary for months, if not longer. How long is such a situation justified? The Minister says in his written reply: as long as the threat of the virus exists. That's very open. Maybe we'll learn to live with the virus, like we live with a lot more viruses. What do we say to all those people who fear that we will never get rid of the measures? What perspective do we give them? Mr. Chairman. The safe distance standard is legally anchored, but many other measures are not. I refer to regulations of German Länder, where ventilation, for example, has a much more prominent place in the legal measures. My group has no reason to doubt that the one-and-a-half-meter measure reduces the risk of transmission of the virus, but I would urge that this measure, in view of its impact on the economy and society, be provided with the very latest scientific evidence. Is the Minister prepared to do so? The SGP values local and regional customization. At the same time, it is clear that this tailor-made approach has not come about in recent months because of the lack of test capacity, lack of clarity about the toolbox with measures to be taken and sometimes also unwilling local and regional drivers to make difficult decisions, such as imposing restrictions on the catering industry. How does the Minister look back on this and when does the custom-made idea in the temporary law really get a substantial chance of success? Common sense and the discharge of citizens' own responsibility are important principles for the SGP for establishing corona measures. To what extent and to what extent will the Minister continue to use the possibilities of urgent advice over the coming period rather than legally enforceable obligations? Mr. Chairman. One more comment on the masks. I understand that the government intends to use Article 58j (1) (a) as a basis for the introduction of national mouth cap requirements in public indoor areas. If we want this in the temporary law, the SGP believes that a more explicit basis for this is preferable. Moreover, such a duty must be based on a genuinely valid justification: why is it necessary and proportionate, also in view of the ongoing scientific debate on the usefulness of non-medical mouth caps? Mr President, I shall conclude. Within the Christian tradition, infectious diseases, epidemics and natural disasters have been regularly characterized as voices of God. A voice to seek our strength and salvation not in ourselves, but in the Lord God. I believe that is a very heartfelt thought. Many in our society have slammed the door in the face of God. He answers that with knocking on the window next to it, unbelievably merciful. Why shouldn't we open for him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u217	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then the floor is for Mrs Prins to speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u218	Mr. Chairman. Rarely has a law caused as much commotion, anger, sadness, anxiety, frustration up to and including firm aggression as this law. Many have reported via the media, demonstrations and many e-mail messages to the Second and First Chambers that they certainly do not agree with this law. In fact, they strongly reject them. Some of them believe, but others do not believe, that COVID-19 is a serious and contagious virus. However, they do not consider the virus to be so serious that the infection and illness of many citizens outweighs the denial of their fundamental rights. They demand their constitutional right to decide whether or not to keep a distance of 1.5 meters and whether or not to go to parties. Some even point out that older people and vulnerable people should not stand in the way of their constitutional freedoms. Now, in fact, these citizens are only a limited part of our society. Then I think: what about the fundamental rights of, for example, students with lung problems, who no longer dare to live in a dormitory? Or with the couple: one with heart problems and the other with diabetes? They took the train twice a week early in the morning to look after their grandchildren, so that both parents could work. How are the fundamental rights of the health care workers who are ready for their sick fellow human beings in this second wave again day after day? Mr. Chairman. That is precisely why it is a good thing that this temporary law is in place. On the one hand, to clarify what can and cannot be done legally and democratically. On the other hand, to make it clear that rights are also accompanied by obligations. Or call them responsibilities. Every citizen has the right to his or her fundamental rights, of course. But every citizen, in the opinion of the CDA, also has his or her responsibility as part of society, in which there is room for everyone, the strong and the vulnerable, young and old, to live. From this solidarity we accept that, in this emergency situation, this law restricts some of our freedoms, unfortunately but necessary, for some time. Indeed, as the Council of State points out, our Constitution offers protection and space to this emergency law, provided that there are sufficient democratic guarantees. However, we still have some questions about the current law. The purpose and scope of the law shall indicate that it is intended to combat the epidemic or a direct threat thereof, the powers being applied only where necessary in view of the seriousness of the threat to public health. This is further in line with the principles of the democratic rule of law and with regard to the objective set out in paragraph 1, namely that the exercise of fundamental rights should be reduced as little as possible and proportionate to that objective. The CDA Group regrets that, despite all the experience from the first corona wave, the explanatory memorandum on the article in question did not address the psychological and emotional health of citizens, nor did it address the balance between physical and mental health, between safety and social well-being and between health and economic consequences. In answering our question on this point, the cabinet states that the consideration of other factors is guaranteed in the procedure. The three Ministers may, in agreement with the Minister whose task is to take a particular measure and in accordance with the views of the Council of Ministers, adopt the ministerial arrangement. The CDA Group is keen to see that the interests I mentioned are also taken into account in the preamble. Article 58c provides that ministerial regulations under this law must first be approved by the House of Representatives within a week. In emergency situations, the Minister may establish an arrangement and allow it to enter into force immediately, but it must be discussed in the House of Representatives in the following week. In the event of a majority against the scheme, it shall be withdrawn. Mr. Chairman. I am not going to dwell on the fact that the role of the First Chamber is restricted in this. Given the importance of public health, the necessary speed of acting and the difference in powers of the Second and First Chambers, the Council of State considers this choice justified. And just as we ask citizens to pay attention to the greater importance of public health to the detriment of their fundamental rights, we believe that this is also true of our own interest as a First Chamber. We respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u219	I have a question for Mrs. Prince-Modern. Why does she think that the use of the Supreme Court would delay the adoption of an extension of the law? We have sometimes adopted tax measures here in 24 hours. All kinds of emergency laws went through it very quickly. Our group is not in favour of endless meetings in committees and in this Chamber to talk things through endlessly. Speaking longer about a measure does not make the decision more careful. So I don't think it's a valid argument to put the First Chamber now calt zu. That can be arranged quickly. I would therefore ask Mrs Prins to support our proposal to amend it, for example, by means of a novelle. This really is an essential democratic right of this Chamber. I don't want it to be put out of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u220	I would like to say first of all that I shall come back to this in the course of my speech. This is a crisis situation. From this crisis situation, where we suspect that the various schemes will not be one-off, as in the case of taxation, for example, but could come back regularly, we consider this emergency situation justified by a temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u221	Okay, so the CDA says, if there's a crisis, we're gonna run away from the First Chamber; do whatever you have to do, we're gonna run away and we're not gonna be there for a while. Isn't that a way to fill out your popularly represented task? If there's a crisis, you have to do the right thing. And we can do that soon, too, as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u222	Just because you have to act in a crisis, we would like the cabinet to have room to act in that crisis. We still have plenty of opportunities to talk to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u223	Mr. Otten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u224	What possibilities does the First Chamber have? Because they were abolished with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u225	No, if we read the text and the opinion of the Council of State correctly, it says explicitly that we still have many possibilities. Fortunately, we are not underestimating these possibilities and will make the most of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u226	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u227	I'm gonna go back. In emergency situations, the Minister may establish an arrangement and allow it to enter into force immediately. But this must be discussed in the following weeks or in the Lower House. In the event of a majority against the scheme, it shall be withdrawn. ... I see I've moved on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u228	It sounded familiar to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u229	However, we are concerned about the practical consequences of the possibility of reversing a ministerial arrangement within a week. Managing in crisis time requires a consistent and consistent approach, sometimes involving rigorous measures that may encounter a high level of resistance. Sometimes it's measures that don't make you liked as a driver. Sometimes it is measures that only have an effect in the long term. They must therefore be given time and space to produce results. These are the measures that people say only after some time: well, good that, despite all this resistance and anger, we have put them in place and pursued. Mr. Chairman. I say it with caution, but how tempting will it be for politics to listen to the voters and then go for short-term gain? Not to mention the implications for the enforcement of these urgent ministerial arrangements. Competent authorities should maintain these arrangements immediately at the start. But then a measure is withdrawn after a week, so that the same investigating officer does not have to maintain that measure. Legally this is true, as the cabinet also states in its response, but is that still workable for the investigators? And what does that mean for their morale? Many of them are often ridiculed, challenged and even threatened in the pursuit of their work. And what about, for example, the fines that were issued during that first week? The Council of State expects that, in the light of developments in the virus, regular scaling-up and scaling-up is needed, and that these emergency arrangements will be regularly prevented. What if several times in a row urgent regulations are abolished by the House of Representatives? What impact will that have on society's trust in government policy? We would like to hear the views of ministers on an effective crisis policy and the need for public confidence in relation to the provisions of this temporary law. Moreover, even in the present and present cases, maintaining the measures is difficult to achieve. The regulation is not only sometimes complex and confusing, but there are also too few investigators available to achieve appropriate enforcement to ensure good compliance. What measures will the Cabinet take to remedy this? Does the cabinet consider the help of the military or the military, as is already the case in hospitals or other support services?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u230	If I heard Mrs Prins' speech correctly, I would like to try to repeat it carefully, and she said that that law deserves the full support of the CDA, because we find that the citizen in the Netherlands is not doing his best. May I conclude from that that you choose the coercion offered by this law? Does the CDA think that coercion is really the only way to mobilise the population at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u231	In no text I have read so far, I can hear this, so that will certainly not be my intention. In that respect, I hope you will take that back. What matters to me is that we have to keep the case. For good compliance, you rely on the responsibility of people, but sometimes that can be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u232	I mean'maintain', and that is what we certainly expect with the introduction of the new law, which includes fines, but I understand now that you say that this should not be done with fines in principle, but there must be enforcement by encouraging citizens to do their duty. That's what you call it. May I conclude, then, that you say that the fines that have been paid so far are going to lapse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u233	No, you didn't hear me say that. As far as I'm concerned, if laws have been passed, you will abide by those laws. In the first instance, you always rely on the responsibility, whether it is driving through red light or keeping 1.5 meters away. If you don't, the consequence is that there's a penalty against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u234	Finally, Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u235	So I understand that the CDA is looking for strong enforcement. You mentioned the red light driving of this law, which is about to come and which severely restricts the citizen in a part of his actions? As long as he gets in trouble, if that 1.5 meters isn't 1.5 meters but 1.20 meters...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u236	Do you have another question, Mr. Van Pareren?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u237	The question is, is this the path we're going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u239	'Cause this is obviously a situation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u240	That was your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u241	... in which it is extremely easy that the First Chamber does not have to participate because it is a part-time parliament, which only slows down. This is crazy! We have a digital world. We can connect incredibly quickly and decide things, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u242	Now the question becomes very diffuse. I give...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u243	No, Mr. Chairman, you're asking me what my question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u244	I now give the floor again to Mrs Prins for the answer. I would ask you to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u245	The biggest challenge is what I'm going to answer now, I have to say honestly. Once again, we are calling for the responsibility of our fellow citizens, but if it is necessary, then there is always the need for enforcement, because that is the way our society works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u246	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u247	But it is always our preference to rely on one's own responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I would like to reflect on the desired behaviour in this respect, Mr. Van Pareren, to which this cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u248	Mrs. Prince, one moment. Mr. Van Hattem, I'll let Mrs. Prins finish. In the end, I am happy to give you the floor. Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u249	I would like to reflect on the desired behaviour which this cabinet has been encouraging, encouraging and sometimes harshly addressing citizens in recent months. This crisis requires a profound change of behavior from all of us, which is also deeply contrary to our values, to our feelings and to our natural response to greet each other warmly with a handshake or embrace, to whisper a little in the ears, to visit each other and, not to mention, to celebrate parties. Such behavior is not simply changed, not even with this unmistakable sense of urgency or by personal experiences from the first corona wave. In society we see that the support for government policy is decreasing and we also see a growing group of Dutchmen who are fatally opposed to the policy and who loudly announce this and unfortunately sometimes also very aggressively, who actively announce "free" magazines via social media, but also through home delivery, but then in a way, as usual in fake news, smart and clever. For many citizens, the question is: what are the facts and what are the fables? Who and what are we supposed to believe? Is corona now a flu or a highly contagious virus with major consequences for care in hospitals and nursing homes? In addition, we regret to note that the history of this law has also led to all sorts of assumptions and anger. That may have been right at the time, but it is no longer present in the current law. Mr. Chairman. In change strategies you often divide your target group into threes: the fervent supporters and frontrunners, the armed opponents, often called saboteurs in the literature, which is the largest group of people who want to be constructive but also doubt and don't know it properly. The opponents often hear and claim loudly, if you are not careful, all attention. However, the changer should focus on the middle group: so always give the middle group clear reasons why they need to change their behavior. Show concrete example behavior. The CDA Group welcomes the government's plans for a strong communication approach. However, the answer shows that this approach is aimed at being present only wherever citizens seek information about the coronavirus with the right information. That is certainly not enough. It is precisely the citizens who do not deal with the facts and figures every day, that is to say the middle group. As a government, you shouldn't wait for them to look for the information. No, the government must provide their proactive and regular information. Telling me again and again why this law is there, what this law does and doesn't mean. And then this in an accessible and relevant way, with more attention to what can be done, which you can do again when, for example, the distribution factor is 0,9: so play football again, the restaurants open again and small events that continue. And what, for example, is allowed when the factor 0.5 is realized. In addition, we consider it an unmistakable task of the government to disprove fake news and to highlight the correct information. Citizens need the right information, as a counterpart to fake news. We are curious whether the cabinet not only shares this view, but is also prepared to put in place a clear strategy in order to assume its responsibilities. Finally. Not only in the Netherlands, but throughout Europe and in other parts of the world, the corona virus is disrupting our lives. Looks like we're gonna have to live with this erratic virus for some time. It would be bad for our country, our economy and for our well-being if we were confronted with intelligent, partial or total lockdowns over and over again. We therefore assume that in the meantime the cabinet has developed several scenarios and is constantly developing to deal with this virus more intelligently. This law provides for the cabinet to inform the two Chambers of progress on a monthly basis. In these monthly reports we would also like to see the experience of the feasibility and enforcement of the measures taken, and insight into the various scenarios how the damage can be reduced as much as possible despite this virus. In this context, I would like to refer to a contribution by virologist Prof. Jaap Goudsmit in NRC Handelsblad last week. At Johns Hopkins University tests are carried out with tests that not only measure whether someone is infected but also whether or not someone is contagious. As a follow-up to the introduction of rapid tests in the coming months, we would like to draw attention to this. Because imagine: based on such a test, you know whether or not you are contagious. If not, you'll be welcome back to your family, at the sports gallery, in a cinema or restaurant. Mr. Chairman, isn't that a wonderful perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Excuse me, Mr. Van Hattem. I misjudged the length. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u251	The advantage is that I can now do two interruptions in one, because I had just heard something else in Mrs Prins' speech about which I have another question. I'll start with that last one. I hear Mrs Prins say that if there is a certain reproduction factor, 0.5 or 0.9, then measures can be linked to it. Does Mrs Prins of the CDA agree with me that it is important to have indicators in relation to measures to be taken or schemes? You yourself have just said that certain measures can be linked to a particular reproductive factor. That's my first question. With your permission, Mr President, I will also take the second question with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u252	Unless Mrs. Prince prefers to answer the first question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u253	Yes, may I answer this question first? There is a road map at the moment. It's made by the cabinet. There are a number of things in there. It also says when there is "vigilant," "serious" or "very serious." What strikes us is that it is very often what cannot be done, while I think it is very important for many citizens in our country to know what is still possible. I think it would help to provide that perspective and show what's relevant to them, so you can make it visible. So you can provide a very large group of citizens, who are not working on the virus all day long, with incentives and perspectives. This is different from setting indicators for the measures. You don't hear me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u254	That is particularly regrettable, because if you have such a roadmap and want to clarify what you can expect in a particular situation, it would be very important for us, as representatives of the people, to have that clarity, to know when or not we should use a measure. That about it. My second point is that I have just heard, before the previous interruption to Mrs Prins of the CDA, that she said something about maintaining the measures and that she even wants to use the military to do so if necessary. Am I to understand that the CDA is here in favour of maintaining this one-and-a-half-meter measure, as you yourself indicated with examples of children walking towards grandma and people hugging each other, with the army? Is that what the CDA is trying to do? Wouldn't it be much better to regain the trust of the citizen by encouraging your own CDA minister, Mr De Jonge, to get the care in order? I have not heard about this, but the problems in the health care sector are the scaling down of care and all the problems at present are a much bigger problem, which affects citizens' confidence much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u255	I think the biggest challenge is to influence the behaviour of the people and the citizens in such a way that care can do its job again. That has everything to do with the fact that too many people are sick at the moment. As a result, regular care cannot be provided and at the same time we run the risk that covid patients will not be able to be admitted. That has everything to do with people's behavior. So we're going to have to focus on people's behavior. That's one thing. The second thing we have said is: if you want to encourage and enforce good behavior, then it is important that enforcement also takes place carefully, not in the way you have just insinuated. Since there are already too few detective officers, it may well mean that you have to look into whether it would be an option in the context of support to deploy military or military personnel. Well, let's face it, at the moment, people from the Defense Department are already being deployed in hospitals. So it would be good for support. But we prefer to call on the responsibility of people. Except we read every day in the paper that this wasn't given to everyone. Then there are parties where 600 men are on top of each other. Then we must note that this is not the same as a child or someone else who comes within 1.5 metres just as fast. If you're having a party with 600 men, that's deliberate violation of the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u256	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u257	I have to say, then, that Mrs Prins of the CDA is indeed saying: we must use the army to enforce the restriction of fundamental rights that this law makes possible. So the army can be used as a enforcer. Well, if we had suggested dealing with Moroccan street terror, for example, then the room would probably have been upside down here. It would be very useful, by the way. So now it is being used to bring about a reduction in fundamental rights in order to enable that one-and-a-half-metre society, which you are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u258	What's your question, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u259	Then why put the ball into these measures? We do not hear about the shortcomings in the care that your minister is responsible for. But that is where the biggest battle could actually be made, rather than taking the ball with the citizen and putting the blame on the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u260	Mrs. Prince, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u261	Mr. Van Hattem, I think we're talking from a different paradigm in that regard. I note that the disease can be prevented as much as possible. It cannot be excluded, but it can be prevented by starting with the behaviour. If the behaviour of citizens is adjusted, it has an explicit positive effect on the quality of our health care in hospitals and nursing homes. And that concern is at a high level, provided that we work together to ensure that these homes are not flooded by people who are infected because they have not complied with the rules necessary to contain the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-26-eerstekamer-3.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.15 p.m.
