ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the budget debate on external trade and development cooperation. It has gone a little weird with the budget treatment because the minister needed to quarantine for a while. The first time-limit on the part of the Chamber took place on 28 October. Today is the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Madam President. You have already referred to it: it is over a month since your Chamber dealt with my budget in the first term. As you said, I did indeed have to quarantine because I had been near someone who had tested positive. I thank you and your room for your patience. A lot of questions have been asked. I will mention the cubes I follow in my answer. Before I go into that, I would like to say something, but the cubes are as follows. I'll start with my introduction. Then my introduction follows. Block 1 is about BHOS, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, during this cabinet period. Block 2 is about corona or COVID-19. Block 3 is about the ODA budget. Block 4 is about gender equality, women's rights and SRGR, sexual and reproductive health and rights. Block 5 is about civil society. Block 6 is about climate and deforestation. I would like to point out that we had a long discussion on Monday about the importance of preserving the forest. Among other things, it was about deforestation. Block 7 is about support for business and the Trade Agenda. Block 8 is about international corporate social responsibility and sustainable production and trade. Block 9 is about trade policy. Block 10 I don't have yet, but that could be any other point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	I propose that there should be a maximum of eight questions per group. That's a lot. So try to be as short and concise as possible in the event of interruptions. Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Madam President. This cabinet started investing abroad three years ago, with investments in diplomacy, defence and development cooperation. We did this on the basis of the conviction that development cooperation and certainly the combination of aid and trade work. That's why we put a lot of bets on this wallet. As Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation Minister, I was able to do so myself with the new policy paper, which, according to this cabinet, can not only stand the tooth of four years, but also afterwards. We are working within the sustainable development goals to create an inclusive and sustainable world. The fact that policy has not yet achieved perfection is clear, but in a world where international cooperation is under pressure and sometimes the look is less outward than hoped, I am standing here with a budget that may exist. In economically difficult times, in which our economy and with us many other or almost all other countries in the world are suffering from the painful consequences of the corona crisis, we have opened up the coalition agreement to invest 500 million more in direct aid to the poorest. I will outline through the cubes the common thread that runs through all the blocks and in which the line of the cabinet comes back. I would like to begin with the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, which the world has recently considered. At that time, 75 years ago, the world chose cooperation over conflict and hope over despair. The same cooperation is still equally relevant. In January of this year, António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, warned the world of four riders of the Apocalypse. He referred to the four major challenges that stand in the way of progress in the 21st century: geopolitical tensions, the climate crisis, global decline in confidence and the dark sides of technology. These challenges are unabated, although the biggest threat this year came in the form of a fifth rider, the corona crisis. This shows us all the more how our fate is linked to that of others, all over the world. In recent years, this link has also clearly been the guiding principle of this cabinet. When I arrived three years ago, this was with clear goals in mind: to help provide perspective and opportunities for the most vulnerable people, and to strengthen and sustain the international economic position of the Netherlands. These principles have been developed in the Policy Paper Investing in Perspective, the foundation of my policy. The essence of this is that the Netherlands is allowed to assert itself in the world. We're an open country, connected to overseas. That's our strength, but it also makes us vulnerable. As an open trading country, this crisis is hitting us hard. A third of our gross national product is earned by international trade, 2.4 million jobs remain dependent on it and more than 180,000 entrepreneurs operate across borders. The crisis, this crisis, comes on top of a poor geopolitical climate, Brexit and a trade dispute between the US and China, at least during this period. Since the beginning of the crisis, therefore, the cabinet has been helping entrepreneurs with advice and deed. We have extended export credit insurance and relaxed conditions for working capital and payment periods, and we have quickly switched to digital trading missions among others. Madam President. The worst blows of the virus fall in the poorest countries with the weakest safety net. In those countries, debt is now rising rapidly and poverty is rising rapidly. We see figures we haven't seen in over 20 years. This year 115 million people are at risk of falling back into poverty, potentially increasing their total number to over 700 million. The number of people who are starving is rising sharply again, as is the number of children who do not go to school or who no longer go to school. Years of poverty reduction have been undone in one go. The world's damage is great, but so is our commitment. It aims to offer hope and a fair chance for a better future, with attention to mental health and psychosocial care, with combating sexual abuse in aid organisations and with attention to structural solutions for causes. An unprecedented economic downturn has put the budgets of developing countries under pressure, while their health systems have already creaked and are now often on the brink of collapse. That is why this cabinet supports the debt Moratorium of the G20 and the debt relief of the International Monetary Fund. Reliable resources can be invested in health care, social systems, jobs and education. It sounds abstract, but for the millions of households that are at risk of poverty or are unable to receive care, this is very concrete. Take the continent of Africa, where three quarters of the population are under 35 years of age. High youth unemployment has created a restless and disadvantaged generation. Corona has only made this situation worse. That is why this year's youth strategy Youth at Heart was launched by the cabinet. With this, the Netherlands invests in the next generation worldwide. With among others the Challenge Fund and the Prospects programme, i.e. the Challenge Fund and the Programme perspectives, the Netherlands in the Horn of Africa helps tens of thousands of vulnerable young people to work or better work. A few weeks ago we therefore also organised the Youth at Heart virtual forum, the first large virtual conference on and with young people from the regions who are the ultimate priority for this cabinet. And so we go together towards a better future. Speaking of the future, I would also like to talk about the climate crisis. Drought, flooding and changing precipitation patterns will have a major impact on food safety, instability and migration patterns. This affects all of us. That is why the Netherlands is combating climate change, for example by giving 10.5 million people in developing countries permanent access to renewable energy, as we have done in recent years. This is a considerable contribution, but it is not enough. Developing countries need our support to adapt to inevitable climate change. The cabinet therefore invests in sustainable agriculture in developing countries. And I also see opportunities in the international trading system. The corona crisis shows us the downside of dependence. If essential goods, such as medical devices and medicines, cannot be delivered, this requires systemic rethinking. This does not mean that we should restrict free trade, but that we should see how we can develop it further. Mr. Chairman. I'm finishing my introduction. Three years ago, this cabinet put the emphasis on Investing in Perspective. If we look around now, we can see the need for this. The challenges I have just outlined for your Chamber do not have any limits and will not disappear on their own, but it is in our interest and it is within our reach to help find solutions and contribute to them. I now turn to the first-term questions. The first block...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	Well, I would like to give Mr Alkaya the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	If you are positive, then you could see a change in the Minister's introduction, namely that she says: it is not really good that the Netherlands is dependent on other countries for the production of strategically important goods. At the same time, of course, this has to do with free trade policy, and the Minister does not want to interfere with that. But she's talking about "systemic rethinks." What are these systemic rethinks if we maintain free trade, which is at the root of this dependence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	In block nine, I will return to trade policy. But as a generic remark on a broad question, the cabinet, like previous Cabinets and I expect future Cabinets, will continue to stand for open, fair trade, which is based on conditions and has to meet requirements. You are also familiar with the non-paper of the Netherlands and France, in which we have also put the climate and sustainability goals at the heart of our work. There is also no doubt that improvements are needed, including in the agreements, and that the WTO, the World Trade Organisation, needs to be reformed. The need to work on the European Union's strategic autonomy for essential goods has already been a choice of this cabinet, and this is being worked on. We have exchanged views on this in the many trade AOs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then we wait for block nine, so we can discuss this further. But as an introduction, as the basis of the policy, it is important to note that this cabinet has finally come to the understanding that unbridled free trade has very negative consequences. And then, of course, we can still include it in word for the free market and so on, but the excesses are known; they have become obvious because of the corona crisis. And let's give the animal a name. Let us therefore honestly admit that we are going to set limits to free trade. The Cabinet doesn't do that. It is doing so, because the shore has turned the ship and we have to, but let's just admit this. Then the Netherlands will know where it is going too, and we will also know that we all have to do industrial policy again, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	When Mr. Alkaya talks about limits to free trade, he must first define what he means by that. We've been talking about globalisation for a long time. We are also talking about international corporate social responsibility. We'll have an AO on it next week. This cabinet has just taken the lead, including at European level, to ensure that quality requirements are introduced, that legislation may be introduced, that we are talking about fair and viable wages in the production countries, and, as well, and. But this is a completely different conversation, not for this introduction, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	Even if we are going to talk about these trade agreements in block nine, I have a question about it, because it is a general introduction. My question is this. In her introduction, the Minister said that the weakest countries are the most affected. She mentioned the climate crisis, the dependencies. If all this is so, then why does this Minister support all these free trade agreements? Let me make it concrete. Yesterday it became painfully clear that deforestation in the Amazon region increased to its highest point in 12 years in 2019. The Minister is working on a free trade agreement. Then I come to my specific question. How did Mercosur negotiations make a positive contribution to Bolsonaro's willingness to better follow up international agreements? Are there fewer woods being cut down now? Are indigenous people no longer being knocked off their land? That's all on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	I shall come back to trade policy anyway, but if you push it through to trade agreements... Mercosur has not yet been shared with this Chamber. We have not yet received the official version of the Commission. There will be a debate on Mercosur. You are right to say that there are questions about political governance in some of the countries with which we sign the treaty. Parliament still has to discuss it and possibly ratify it. That's very clear. This Parliament has already adopted a motion to vote on Mercosur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	Then let me go wider. Can the Minister refer to a trade treaty, an investment treaty, which has actually contributed to the improvement which the Minister claims to pursue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	In any case, of course, we are concluding trade agreements at European level. That's always taken on a wide scale. It shall be taken into account by the Commission in the mandate. This parliament, this Chamber, is always taken. It's being discussed extensively. There are many trade agreements that contribute to socio-economic development. These ensure, for example, that the latest open agreements of the world, of the International Labour Organisation, are also signed. But whether it goes from zero to 100 in absolute form: no. It is part of a broader framework of European Union instruments, including the Netherlands. This puts pressure on us, we outline opportunities and we trade, but we also want to increase the economy of the countries that are driven by trade. There's a wide range of ones I'd like to get back to in the second term, with a few specific examples of them, for example, to show contrast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	Since we are obviously dealing with block nine, I should like to join the rest of the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	Maybe it's useful to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	I'm gonna go ahead with block nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yeah, 'cause it doesn't really have to be like this. That might make the debate a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	It is in line with the previous issue, Mercosur. The minister says we still have to get the treaty. But I see that Germany, Belgium, France and the European Parliament have said that they do not want to ratify the Treaty. The Dutch Parliament has already made a ruling on it once. The cabinet remains rather behind, especially at this time, with the deforestation of the Amazon, et cetera. How much more proof do we have to get that this treaty shouldn't be ours?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	I think it's really a matter of trial. On the political side, from the cabinet, it is wise that we should still enter into the debate on the basis of the treaty as it has been received and read, with an appreciation. I have already told the European Commission, in European Councils, that the Dutch Parliament has already agreed and voted away this treaty and that there is little or perhaps none, but at least very little, support for this treaty within the Netherlands. I already gave it to you anyway. So thank you for the question. Then I'm sure I can explain that. The second is, of course, that with the Dutch commitment and in cooperation with the Commission and France, we are committed to improving the framework for these conventions. Think of CETA, for example. The new complaint mechanism launched by the European Commission really stems from the discussions we have had and the proposals I have made on behalf of the Dutch cabinet. The complaint mechanism is open to human rights representatives, trade unions, civil society and anyone who complains or feels negatively affected by a trade agreement. This is new and a big breakthrough. It is one of many elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u21	I understand you've classified all kinds of subjects. Everyone has questions about these trade agreements. Is it complicated to deal with it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yeah, I'll look it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u23	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u24	My budget is not necessarily about trade agreements, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u25	But apparently there is a need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u28	Another supplementary question. The Minister says it is an unfortunate treaty; I may not paraphrase it as well, but she says she also sees that there is opposition to the Treaty in the European Parliament. Then why should we be the last in line to be critical in the end and say: the way the treaty is now, the Netherlands doesn't really like it either? If France and other countries have already done so, why do we have to wait until we are the last?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u29	Because each cabinet is about its own process. We don't always have to imitate others directly. I understand the intention and that is why I have already told the Commission and the Council that there is little enthusiasm for this treaty in the Netherlands for perhaps political reasons, but that we still want to receive and discuss the treaty in the context of a good process and orderly administration, and we also want to send a cabinet juice valuation to this Chamber, as it should be. But we are putting pressure on the Commission together with the other Member States. That's another way of influencing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u30	What the Minister has just said about Mercosur and that this has been agreed is very important. It is good that the Minister also acknowledges that. In passing, she also mentioned an improvement in the dispute mechanism in relation to the CETA Convention. I would like to touch on that, because China wants a completely different dispute mechanism in the treaty that is currently being negotiated. I'm sure the Minister knows that. So I also assume that in the negotiations with China it is the commitment of the Netherlands to get that part off the table. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u31	We still have quite a long way to go. As regards the negotiations with China, we have said in the Council, and I believe that you have already received the report on this, that we are going for a high-quality treaty and that we are not in a hurry to complete it as quickly as possible. Despite the fact that China is a big market, there are a lot of hooks and eyes attached to it. So many Member States have supported the Netherlands in this, but you must have seen this in the reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u32	It is good to hear that the Netherlands is going for a quality treaty. Like you should go for something else. But the answer is too vague. China is proposing a dispute mechanism that is different from what Europe is proposing. Is that a hard negotiating point for this minister, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u33	In my reply I would like to address the questions that have been asked. I'll take additional questions. I have to check where we are in the round on the dispute mechanism in the second term, because I do not want to make statements here in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u35	I would like to make a few brief comments on the Commission's proposal. So I'll go into that first and then we'll come back to possible questions about trade agreements that play. A number of questions were asked about value chains and strategic dependencies in the first term of the Chamber. Mr Alkaya pointed to vulnerabilities revealed by COVID-19 in terms of production and delivery of essential goods, such as mouth caps, and asked for a strategic vision of the cabinet. I share his view that a number of structural vulnerabilities have come to light or have become even clearer in terms of the availability of, among other things, medical products. Dependence on one country or individual supplier of essential goods should be avoided as far as possible. And that, of course, is one of the lessons of this crisis. Security of supply is partly improved by strengthening national and European production, but also, of course, by the diversity within the value chains and the diversification to which trade agreements can contribute or to the creation of stocks. During the additional RBZ/Trade in April, we have already called on the Commission to explore the possibilities of an essential health goods agreement, supported by countries such as Sweden and France, so that trade in medical goods can be as open as possible at the time of a health crisis, but also so that distribution takes place in a fairer way. Right now you see that whoever has the deepest pockets can buy up the most. The Commission took up this proposal and launched and published ideas for an international initiative in June. This is further discussed within the framework of the World Trade Organisation with similar countries. The European Union's trade policy, which is also being reviewed at the moment, and you are familiar with the strategic review, should contribute to a sustainable socio-economic recovery for the post-corona period and promote a strategically resilient European Union. Mr Amhaouch asked how we deal with the recovery of production to the Netherlands. How do we make strategic choices in that? The cabinet is indeed investigating this important question. Through the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as requested in the Heerma c.s. motion, the cabinet has requested advice from the ESC on reshoring of the manufacturing industry. We expect the ESC opinion in December 2020 or January 2021. Then you will hear from us the cabinet vision on the manufacturing industry. We also take part in the discussion at EU level on the so-called open strategic autonomy, also as part of the strategic trade policy review. You were informed by letter of the cabinet's intention to do so. Mr Weverling asked about the direction of the cabinet with regard to strategic autonomy. He asked for a national study in addition to what is happening at EU level. The direction of the cabinet in this area is that more self-sufficiency is not an end in itself. In our view, strategic autonomy is one of the ways in which a resilient, economically competitive European Union can be created. That it is a priority and that speed is required, everyone will be clear. Other instruments that can contribute to a resilient, strategically autonomous EU are diversification of trading partners, other choices. Many companies themselves are already taking steps in............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The open trading system, which was perhaps also Mr Alkaya's question, will not be abandoned. On a case-by-case basis, it will be considered whether and to what extent intervention is useful and necessary. The question of a national inquiry into dependencies follows this year's motion, addressed to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, to myself. This motion asks to examine the vulnerabilities of the Dutch industry for disruptions of global value chains and to develop policy options. This motion has been left to the discretion of the Chamber and adopted. We're in the process of implementing this motion. This, of course, takes into account in particular the value chains and dependencies flowing through China. We are talking to the Central Bureau of Statistics for the analysis of the relevant data. We hope to send a letter to this Chamber in the next few weeks. Mr Weverling rightly points out that reducing strategic dependencies is not enough. I share the view that we need to look at it, and I think this Chamber shares it, although there may be other approaches to fairer trade and a more level playing field. Mr Weverling asked about the state of play with regard to the International Procurement Instrument. The cabinet remains committed to an effective International Procurement Instrument for reciprocal market access for public procurement. In doing so, we advocate the possibility of excluding certain tenderers. We are actively proposing and calling for a result. Of course, this takes place at EU level, but a level playing field is more than a comparable market access only through this instrument. So we are also looking at how we can strengthen the level playing field instrument ourselves. This has led to a European White Paper proposing an instrument allowing exclusion of tenderers receiving market-distorting State aid from third countries. You will be able to fill out what countries that might be, but it is a generic instrument. Of course, that should be possible. In this context, too, the cabinet is active in Europe to promote progress. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to take a moment for recent transatlantic developments. It was also discussed on Monday during the debate at the note-taking meeting on the conservation of the forest. Then I am talking about transatlantic developments. President-candidate Biden has indicated that he wants to bring the United States back to the heart of multilateral consultations. That is an opportunity for Europe to show leadership together with the US. It really is a reset of the global trading system in particular. So we are looking at an ambitious climate agenda that we can draw up, which also includes the US. The EU and the US can then work together in the World Trade Organisation, but also beyond, to establish new rules to shape the digital economy and improve labour rights, with the Netherlands as an important portal. The US can go with other allies to regulate improper industrial subsidies, because we really missed that. And, of course, there is a joint commitment within the framework of the World Trade Organisation to review China's status as a developing country once and for all. That is an important point of displeasure. Of course, realism is needed. There is an opening, and that is an important opening that we have not seen in years that we can use. Indeed, we can work with the US on the biggest problems of the 21st century and we can work on solving trade tensions, not only globally but also the trade tensions that have arisen between the EU and the US, which are actually distracting us from the core of the matter. I refer to an international system, a functioning system and a system in which the Climate Agenda can be very central. The President-in-Office has also been very clear about this. Then a number of questions were asked about China under the heading of trade policy. Mr Weverling asked me if I was willing to think about how a broad international coalition could be deployed to persuade China to give up improper benefits, to end the status of OS country. I've already mentioned the latter. We want to continue to do so actively. Especially if the US returns to the World Trade Organisation and wants to work together with the European Union, I see real opportunities there. It is true that this discussion should include the wider membership of the World Trade Organisation. It is also part of the reform of the World Trade Organisation. But I see an opening in that. We also want a timetable that is concrete for the phasing out of China's status as a developing country. This is also mentioned in the China note that was discussed with this Chamber last calendar year or early this year. Countermeasures such as tariffs can only be used after a ruling by the World Trade Organisation in a dispute. We attach great importance to the fact that, of course, the EU and ourselves will continue to act in accordance with the rules of the game, in other words, set by the WTO. Mr Van Haga asked about the prevention of unwanted Chinese takeovers due to the corona crisis, the commitment to reciprocity and an overview of companies in the danger zone. I think I have just made a number of these points on reciprocity with regard to China. When it comes to takeover risks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'd finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u37	There are, of course, risks, and we are aware of this, both within the Netherlands and at European level, of takeovers and selective strategic investments, for example, made by China. We really want to counter this. We also want balance and reciprocity in relations with China. At European level, efforts are being made to reach an investment agreement with China, which should, among other things, provide for equal market access. Furthermore, we have sector-specific investment tests in the energy domain and telecommunications. You also know that the European Union, also at the request of the Netherlands, is in the process of considering whether these sectors should be reviewed and extended in strategic terms, because, of course, it is not just about telecommunications and energy. Companies in affected sectors or sectors can contact the Department of Economic Affairs' Investment Review Office. They're at the bar for this. The ministers of EZK and Justice and Security are working on a broader investment test, also to look at our national security. Following the entry into force of the Act, acquisitions and investments made as from 2 June 2020 may be subject to retroactive review if this proves to be detrimental to national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u38	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have finished Mr Van Haga's question. Furthermore, I am almost done with international trade policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u40	Then I'd finish that first. That might make the interruptions a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u41	Then there was a question from Mr Van Haga about the implementation of the China Strategy and the measures taken. Mr Van Haga probably knows that there is a China task force. A knowledge network has been established with a number of relevant ministries and, of course, we have the postal network of our embassies. We are committed to achieving a unified position on China at EU level. Many of the items on the agenda in the China note are also high on the European agenda. For the issues that are relevant in the field of foreign trade and development cooperation, we have proposed that companies receiving discriminatory State aid within the EU should be subject to stricter supervision. This proposal has been accepted by the European Union. It's incorporated into a bidbook on foreign grants. That has been done since June 2020. The China capacity of the RVO has also been strengthened. So companies, local authorities and knowledge institutions can contact RVO with questions. There is also an online awareness tool that is going to be published, so that entrepreneurs know where they are and that even when they travel or have conversations they know exactly how to guarantee their own safety, but also to make business safety safer. The risks of doing business with China are discussed in detail. We are also looking at a fairer loan policy for the international financial institutions. The result is an interest-rate premium for loans to wealthy middle-income countries, so no developing countries so you can see again the difference in the system of "China" within the World Bank. Then there is one more question from Mr Stoffer in the block of trade policy. He asked if I was prepared to advocate an EU-Taiwan bilateral investment agreement. The cabinet believes that we already have good economic, cultural and scientific links with Taiwan. There is great mutual trust in the legal system and in the institutions. We do not see any need to insist at EU level on continuing with Taiwan on an investment agreement. It's all working out fine. This is it for this cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u42	I see Mrs Van den Hul, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u43	The cubes run a little through each other. I was going to ask this question later, but now that it's about China, I'm just gonna do it. We have seen horrible reports in the media this morning, really horrible reports, which I think we should really pay attention to today. It concerns the fact that ex-prisoners in Uighur camps indicate that their hair is shaved off upon entry and that these products now appear to have been processed in Dutch hair products, such as wigs or haircuts. Surely that's beyond comprehension. Last week, at our request and at the request of Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen of GroenLinks, we had hearings on chain responsibility in relation to China, with Xinjiang and wider. What came up is that it's not really possible to do business fairly with China. So when I hear the Minister now about personal safety and business safety, I would very much like to hear what the Minister's commitment is going to be to prevent this kind of horrible abuses and to prevent Dutch consumers from buying products that have preceded this tragedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u44	For the sake of clarity, under this heading, I have made an effort to answer the first-term questions. I didn't go into actuality right away. We have a heading of international corporate social responsibility. It'll come later. But I totally agree, and I share the horror. I believe that this should also be an important part of the mix of measures proposed by the cabinet when it comes to corporate social responsibility. Human rights are an important part of this. When the draft treaty was discussed with China, we were the only country that urged the European Commission to include the situation and the rights of the Uighurs in all talks with the Chinese. As far as we are concerned, this is an important part of weighing up whether you want to conclude a trade agreement at all. This is in order to be able to get the other Member States along with it. As far as special sectors are concerned, we need to consider whether the agreements that are under way can take even more account of what is expected. This is, of course, an important example of what we, as a government, should expect when it comes to companies that sign and subscribe to the OECD guidelines and are, of course, also part of the covenants. I must also read the article even more carefully, but it may well be that ending a business relationship is the only appropriate answer. I don't want to get ahead of myself. I would like to put another letter to it if it is desired, because this situation is so structural and poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u45	It's always a bit difficult with this minister, because if you walk forward too fast, all your questions will be answered as you walk forward. It's a bit of a search now. The minister says that the balance with China has been found. Well, I don't think so at all, because of course there are a lot of things that can be solved. Vestager's plan would contribute something to that. I am still curious whether Vestager's plan has been translated into a plan for the Netherlands, outside the China strategy, which was a kind of philosophical reflection and not really concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u46	I did not say that the balance was found, but that it is important that we find a balance. That is, of course, an ongoing search. There are a number of improvements. Furthermore, there is a great deal of power towards China at European level and not just in the Netherlands. Your question concerned in particular the prevention of unwanted Chinese takeovers as a result of the crisis and the commitment to reciprocity. That's what I was referring to. Of course, there is no such reciprocity, because we still suffer from state-funded companies, unfair competition and also qualitative demands. I do not want to return to the previous conversation, with Mrs van den Hul, but I also mention, of course, the poignant human rights situation. So there is still a great deal of work to be done. As far as your question is concerned, we are looking at sector-specific investment tests. The Ministries of EZK and Justice are presenting a broader investment test in relation to national risks. As far as the balance is concerned, we are still negotiating on this. This takes place at European level when it comes to the Treaty, access, supervision and combating unfair competition. It is a very difficult period, and I fully agree with you. There is a risk that companies that fall over will be bought up through the back door. That's why the investment test is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u47	That all sounds very encouraging, but we have been working on this for years, and in the meantime China is not complying with WTO rules, they are still using state aid, and that goes on and on. Is it not time that we said at some point: until here and no further; we are simply not going to do business with China until this is in balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u48	I think it would be very unwise for you to step out of a dialogue and close all the doors. President Trump couldn't do that either. But apart from that: companies make independent choices. We make demands on their behavior. We want to protect our companies. At the same time, if the Prime Minister and I are going on a trade mission, then everyone from the Dutch business community, big and small, will be knocking down the door for us to be on that mission, because the companies themselves want to go on. It is a question of guaranteeing rights, quality requirements and reciprocity. Nor will Mr Van Haga be surprised that this did not happen overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u49	Third question, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you for that answer. I don't think we're gonna get out of this. I had two more questions, namely the VAT limit and the import tax limit. I do not know if they are in this China block, but of course they are very much related to China. No import duties are paid under the €150. The question was whether it would be possible to reduce that threshold or at least examine what a realistic threshold is. At the moment, the shopkeepers are simply blown away by Ali Baba and similar online shopping companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u51	I have to come back to this briefly in second term, because this is really something for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. They're talking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u52	I am going to Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, then Mr Stoffer and then Mr Van Raan. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u53	I hear the Minister talking about reciprocity and the investment agreement with China. I think we agree that this must be balanced and that reciprocity must be good. But does the Minister agree with me that this should be broader than just economic interests, that it should also be about access for NGOs and journalists to both areas? In China, too, there must be free access for NGOs and journalists, as well as for human rights, employment and that sort of thing. Is that part of the commitment of the Netherlands and is that part of that package of reciprocity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u54	When it comes to trade agreements in that context, we had this discussion with China, a mandate was concluded a few years ago. Often it is not part of this, but this must be the subject of political dialogue with China. The problem, of course, is that, as in many other countries, people do not necessarily care about the EU's desire. But it's very important. When you talk about access to the new complaints mechanism that has just been launched, it is indeed about trade unions, human rights representatives, journalists and so on. I share that this is important, but I would like to confirm where it is included in the mandate so that I do not make false promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u55	I understand that, but I think we have come to the conclusion that the hearings or discussions we have had over the last few weeks on the situation around the Uighurs have also confirmed that this whole political human rights dialogue with China is not really going anywhere, that it is not going to go through or that we are actually just getting a middle finger on the EU, and that apart from that, our economic relationship is just being discussed every time. I am a bit searching how we can make a connection between them, because it cannot be that we, as Europe, as the Netherlands, are throwing human rights at economic interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u56	There is always a balance. Human rights are universal and ideally at the heart of everything we do. There is always in reality, in implementation there is a weighting of different interests. It's been like that for decades. That it needs to be sharper, I see, and I agree with it, but how it goes in the implementation is another matter. If we only look at the EU, you will soon see, for example, in the Hong Kong issue, that many countries are giving political statements, but at the same time, two days later, again launching a trade mission towards China. So that's one thing to say and do another thing. That is a great dilemma, and it is no wonder that China sees it like no other, of course. That we have to keep ourselves on that level constantly sharp, I fully share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u57	If I understood correctly, the Minister also answered my question about Taiwan. In fact, she said with so many words that the relationship between Taiwan and the Netherlands, or Taiwan and the EU, is fine, but I have the impression that this is particularly about the cultural aspect. My question was very specific as to whether our government within the EU would like to call for a bilateral investment agreement between the EU and Taiwan, i.e. genuinely trade-oriented. Could the Minister go into that a little more closely?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u58	My answer was, in fact, that we do not see the need on the part of the cabinet to do so, and that is why we will not go along with it, because this is a good way to proceed. The companies find each other. There are investments that are being made. The countries find each other not only culturally, but also economically and scientifically. So the added value of an investment agreement is not seen by the cabinet at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u59	There's a different view of that in Taiwan. I have the impression that that might be more possible. It's still a bit on the plain. Could the Minister clarify this a little further? How good is this business relationship now? What kind of trade comes out of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u60	Then I will return to that with numbers and numbers in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u61	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u62	It was also about the strength of the trade agreements; it was said that they contribute so much to the situation so desired by the Minister and also by the Animal Party, namely that it is getting better in the world. We can see that trade agreements or investment treaties do not actually do this. We've been talking about Mercosur. The Minister himself mentioned the Vietnam Agreement; well, there's a lot of things wrong there too. In Indonesia, things are also wrong. Those trade agreements really don't work. The treaty with China is an investment treaty. That's actually about protecting companies from investment. Then you can see that China is proposing an investment mechanism based on which companies can appeal to countries. Huawei will probably soon be an example of this. Human rights are being violated on an extremely large scale. Why doesn't this government get out of here? No, let me rephrase. Why is this government actually an accomplice, let me put it so clearly in order to maintain these abuses in China?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u63	I find that rather harsh language, "complaint to abuses in China." The cabinet is represented through the European Commission. Negotiations have been under way for a number of years. On the contrary, we insist on putting the importance of human rights at the heart of the matter. The Netherlands and France are looking at the sustainability agenda in new trade agreements. The complaints mechanism has been established thanks to strong Dutch pressure. There are a number of examples of continuous improvement. I don't see any accessory. I share the great concerns about effective influence and about being able to make changes. We must also simply recognise the limited scope for action that we have. But continuing, exerting pressure, trying to create opportunities: that is the commitment of this cabinet. That's about the whole width. No one's gonna deny it's hard. We shouldn't be naive about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u64	Your sixth question, Mr. Van Raan. I can't believe you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my view, there is no complaints mechanism in the Investment Treaty with China, which is being negotiated. So what the minister is saying here is actually wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u66	I'm talking about the general mechanism that was just launched last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u67	That is true, but that is not a mechanism that has now been negotiated out with the investment treaty with China. I do not want this to count as a question, Mr President, but can the Minister confirm that? It says something that is generally correct, but not in the situation with China. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yeah, but we're not particularly talking about that either. In the second term, I shall return to the specific details of the trade agreement with China. But I mentioned it in general terms, because these are all important improvements in trade agreements. Mr Van Raan also jumps from the general to the specific. I have said what the major improvements to trade agreements are and when it comes to influence. The case of China is still discussed in this Parliament when there is another update to share on progress, or lack of progress, in the negotiations with China on the trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u69	Oh, yeah. So at least we agree that this is not yet covered by the investment treaty with China. Fine. But that sixth question I'm asking is next. The Minister says: we are doing our best and these investment treaties contribute to this. But what exactly has improved in the situation with China during the process that is already under negotiation? Because it doesn't get better; it just gets worse there. What has actually improved in these negotiations with China?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u70	I think I need to repeat it even more. I shall, of course, deal first with the questions that have been asked. In the second term, I will come back to this briefly with an update on the trade agreement with China, with the details that are relevant. I can also outline what may have been improved. I don't think that can be concluded yet, because we're still in the middle of a tough negotiation. And the Netherlands has said: hasty haste is rarely good. A high-quality document is intended to be produced. So I think there are still a lot of steps to be taken. That's my appreciation. But I am now saying what I remember about this, and I will reconfirm this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u71	I see Mr Alkaya and Mr Voordewind at the interrupting microphone. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u72	I think it is very good that we started with the trade policy part. You see, after all, a cautious change in the naive trade policy of recent years, towards a somewhat fairer policy based on reciprocity, and yet also a policy that is somewhat more realistic given geopolitical relations. Those baby steps just cheer the Socialist Party on. My question concerns the investigation of strategic dependencies, based on the Segers/Heerma motion. Does the Minister share the view that research should cover the full breadth of the economy, and not just a few strategically important sectors such as care, food and energy? It can be about anything, including tomorrow's technologies, chips and the like. It could also be about all kinds of other things that we may not yet be able to think about, but which are important in our economy. Does the Minister share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u73	Perhaps Mr Alkaya means research on vulnerabilities. It is difficult to investigate the vulnerabilities of the future. But let me take his question as follows. We need to map out what we're gonna need. We see the trends we will need in terms of artificial intelligence, photonics, all new technologies and key technologies. There are, of course, the strategic opportunities, but also the potential vulnerabilities to takeovers and threats. If I may take his question this way, I would like to confirm the progress made by the colleagues from EZK and JenV. And, of course, there's our own investigation. I will set it as broad as possible, so that it is relevant for the future. I hope I understand Mr Alkaya's question so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u74	We understand that there will be a discussion next week with companies that are part of the textile agreement. I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to discuss with the companies in the covenant how she sees the BCI, so the Better Cotton Initiative. And what does she think of BCI's advice on getting textiles from China? I am deliberately not talking about Xinjiang but about China, because that is where 80% of the cotton comes from. Is the Minister prepared to point out to the companies that BCI says, "Don't you get textiles from China anymore?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u75	This could be very good. Indeed, as early as 18 November, the ESC held a dialogue with the parties in the textile agreement. Foreign Affairs has stressed that everyone must ensure that they operate in an intransparent and risky environment, including risks of unintentionally contributing directly or indirectly to human rights violations, which, of course, can never be the intention. The due diligence measures we expect, which are still voluntary at the moment, must therefore also be applied to the human rights lens. We have already done that, but we will of course come back to that, even in subsequent talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u76	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u77	Then I go back to the first block, Madam President, on Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation during this cabinet period. First, I would like to congratulate Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on his maiden speech. We have had the debate a few times, but once again we congratulate you; that is always nice. You asked me about my legacy. I actually answered that question at the beginning. The policy agenda, the results achieved, SDGs, Climate Agreement, education and healthcare, the proactive trade agenda, the new imvo appreciation, the mix of measures: there are many examples. There are two or three other points I want to take out. As the Netherlands, we have the access to psychosocial and mental health care, abbreviated MHPSS, internationally. It's being programmed for right now. It is seen as a priority and no longer as a bonus in terms of emergency aid. It has become a core task within the wider international system of Red Cross and Red Crescent and also the UN organisations and Dutch civil society organisations. This is also extremely important for reconstruction and peace-building. So this is a special role that the Netherlands has taken up. The second interesting thing to report is climate action, including climate diplomacy. We launched a climate diplomacy campaign in 2019 to encourage others to take action by making the right investments and making the right choices against climate change. On the EU side, we have argued for more ambitious climate targets. As co-chair of the Nationally Determined Contributions Partnership, the Netherlands, together with Costa Rica, is helping in a two-year period to meet the Paris climate goals. We do this through technical support, through access to money... not from the Netherlands, but by organising access to the right loans.... and by a lot of economic advice. Of course, we also work together with the Young Climate Movement. Another aspect is good governance. The Netherlands has chosen a clear line, also internationally, to combat sexual exploitation and abuse and sexualharassment by placing responsibility within organisations and linking them with consequences. And so there is a whole series of examples. You will find it all in the results report. Take the coalition agreement, too. In both the Development Agenda and the Trade Agenda, you see education and putting women and girls at the centre as a means of tackling the root causes. These are broad red lines that are consistently carried out at embassy level, but also internationally at political level throughout the cabinet, where that fits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u78	Have you answered all the questions relating to this section?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u79	Not yet, but I can do it very quickly. Mrs. Kuik asked about the risks of sexual abuse. She said it's unacceptable that aid workers take advantage of people in need in any way, leading to the risk of prostitution. We have pursued policies on this, and Mrs Kuik knows this better than anyone else. We've taken international action. We charge organizations and we also hold payments or ask for recovery. But money is one of the means. We want a system change, we just don't want it to happen anymore. We're still working from a zero tolerance policy. We get a lot of countries with us, which also makes the pressure on the system much greater and more effective. We have also been active in the EU and the UN. We stand on a political and programmatic level for the sexual rights and reproductive health rights of women and girls. There is still a very conservative wind blowing. I think things will be different with the new Biden administration. We also notice this in a number of choices that have been made. But it remains important to focus on this issue. Because many countries prefer to do less or increase the pressure to achieve a relapse in the situation for women and girls. The Netherlands is making its voice heard and also deploying resources where necessary, in particular through civil society. It has also proved to be a point in the negotiations on post-Cotonou. It has been very difficult, but we have been politically firm, and that has had the desired result. It remains very difficult with countries such as Poland and Hungary, which feel the representatives of the very conservative voice. Of course, we also notice this within the EU. But we stand on these important issues. It is also about information and access to support, contraception and health care. Safe abortion care is part of that. This was the point of development cooperation. I have one more point on trade. We've already said a few things. When you look back, you come to the next thing. I have delivered a package of measures in the field of international corporate social responsibility. We have already discussed the evaluation, the proposals and the direction taken at European level. We hope that the first quarter of legislation will be offered there. And then on Dutch level. We'll have an AO on this next week. We will also continue to develop options, including legislation. Of course, we keep companies to their obligations. The EU trade agenda was asked for. I have just mentioned the Dutch-French initiative as one of the examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u80	Salute to the minister for so well positioning mental health care, because I think that in recent decades has been one of the great blind spots in development aid and the way we deal with each other in this world. So the compliments for that. I'm just wondering how this has been secured towards the future. Isn't it a little too ad hoc right now? Is it not a little too much focused on emergency aid and a little too little on structural improvements in mental health care in developing countries? That feeling kind of creeps me out. When I look at the budget, I am afraid that funding is not structured either. That is necessary in order to remain that advocate from the Netherlands as well. Can you say anything about that, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u81	There are two things. We have deliberately chosen to have access to MHPSS in crisis situations, because it is totally lacking there. They are often refugees and displaced persons. They're outside a system. No one's talking for them and no one's thinking about them. They've been through the biggest traumas. So that was a conscious choice. There was a total gap in access to this type of care. The second is that we are indeed working to ensure that this is integrated into the budgets of finance ministers in developing countries. This should get a much bigger place in there. But we do that through the World Health Organization. This is a specific role that we have taken on because of the greatest needs and the greatest traumas. The fact that it needs to be broader actually comes back to Mrs Kuik's question. I think she was talking about a study on how to deal with the weaknesses that have been recognised in health systems elsewhere, also due to the corona crisis. Would the Netherlands make other choices? Let me take that question straight away, Madam President. Yeah, we're gonna start a study to map that well. In that we can also take this point back. It is well known that the pandemic of the 21st century is actually about mental health in the broad sense. That was confirmed by the WHO long before the start of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u83	Then I'll continue with heading 2, COVID-19, short-spoken corona. Of course, the impact is enormous. We also see this in our own relatively prosperous country. Mr Bouali referred to Yemen as a poignant example. 80% of the population already needed humanitarian aid for corona. That's only gotten worse. One in five children in Yemen under 5 years of age is severely malnourished. What do we do, you asked. We're pulling up at the political level. This is also in line with the Yemeni resolution, which was adopted several years ago in the Human Rights Council. We give money through the Dutch Relief Alliance. Furthermore, the corona package has been extended. In all countries, we always look at the most vulnerable. Of course, the first funds I have released have also served the most vulnerable people in countries like Yemen, but not only. Mrs Kuik asked if we also saw opportunities to do Build Back Better. It is indeed good to link crisis management and economic recovery, because that is how you create perspective. We want to see what the consequences are and what international recovery funding is needed. We are also looking at investments in climate and society and, of course, we are trying to ensure that inclusive funding systems can be built. In the end, it is often the World Bank and IMF support packages. That's the biggest money and there's the most expertise to do something right away. They look at climate mitigation and adaptation, but also at the whole corona emergency package. We're in, not just because we're a shareholder. We are also quite a driver of ideas and suggestions. I also believe that the World Bank should use more of its own resources and capital during this critical period, but the World Bank itself is reluctant to do so, as is often the case with banks, because it is concerned about its triple A rating. But we continue to work together politically with the British and a number of other countries. You asked for a health strategy. I think I just answered that question. Mrs Kuik also asked where the Dutch added value might be vis-à-vis the UN and, for example, the European Commission and other EU Member States. I emphasized that, too. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen asked in the block cash transfers in his maiden speech whether we want more work on cash transfers to strengthen the social safety net for the poorest. I have already told you that I think this is a very important instrument. They overcome poverty, combat inequality and give dignity, because people can make their own choices according to the situation of the family. We do this in Ethiopia and we do this in Mozambique. We want to see with other partners whether this instrument can indeed be used more widely. In fact, I am also looking at the European Union, because there is a great deal of the Dutch contribution there too, and we can do so together. We also urge other organisations to use cash transfers, from the World Bank to the UNHCR and to UNICEF. Some organisations already do it, sometimes with Dutch resources. Her Majesty Queen Máxima was a special advocate for inclusive financing of development. This also plays an important role in the wider framework of access to finance for those who would never get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u84	Let's just get back to the previous point. The corona crisis has shown us very clearly how important it is to have a sustainable health strategy. Germany already has such a health strategy. The minister says there's a study going on. Are we actually going to look at the roadmap, how we in the Netherlands can also use this health strategy sustainably, not just here in the Netherlands? We also depend on the countries around us. So is there also an explicit commitment to look at such a roadmap, as Germany does, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u85	It's a little early to say. I'm interested in the German model. I'm not aware of the details, but we can definitely take that with us. But I think we need to know what we want to do first. All these years, of course, we have invested very much in sexual rights and health rights. That really is a pillar of Dutch policy. That must also continue. We are not only good at this, we have a political voice in it and we are seen as such. But strengthening health systems in the broad... We need to evaluate where the needs are now highest, how and where the Dutch added value lies. Then a German example can be useful, but at the same time we are not Germany. And Germany is not so active on some themes where the Netherlands has really been playing a role for years. Madam President. Then I'd like to move on to the third block, the ODA budget. Several members called attention to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mrs van den Hul on the previous point. I also see Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u87	It suddenly happened very quickly at the end of the second block. I have another question about the channels. We've had a change of plans before. When we look at the budget and the corona measures, we see that this minister is particularly in favour of multilateral organisations. We share a warm heart for these multilateral organisations, which, as far as I am concerned, we cannot sufficiently support. We are seeing the IMF, the UN and the WHO, but I still miss the local organisations. If we see that they are under increasing pressure, is the Minister not prepared to reconsider our earlier plea, together with GroenLinks, for at least 25% for local organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u88	The choice of a number of channels in the first phase of the corona crisis was actually in line with all other donor countries. It was about speed, scale and accessibility. In that lockdown phase in many countries, local organisations did not have them either. So we looked purely at: how do we achieve the result? The second is a broader question. The cabinet always says that we send for results and we look for the organisations. I fully share the importance of civil society. Especially during this period we see how that will be under pressure. But we have also published a tender and awarded many contracts to civil society through Power of Voices, well known to Mrs Van den Hul. We always try to find a balance. Finally, at the end of the financial year, I shall say that it is about 19% or 20% again. I haven't been able to be higher in years. But to say "25% has to go to civil society" doesn't seem relevant to me, if you look at the direction of results. Eventually, it turns out to be a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u89	On the contrary, we believe that it is very important for the management of results, because it is precisely the most marginalised groups that are now in danger of being placed even further behind by corona, and precisely because we see that local organisations and grassroots organisations are best placed to reach them, for example those from the lhbt community or women who are, for example, sex workers or other groups that may not be easily reached by mainstream organisations. So I would like to support these organisations once again, because they are in danger of falling through the loopholes of the available infrastructure, and they deserve our support very much now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u90	I appreciate the warm plea. And I recognize it, too, but we still don't send organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u91	That corona block did go really fast. And I've been sitting in my chair for an hour and also the introduction of no less than ten minutes of U.N. advertising talk, so to speak, I'm going to put up with it. I had asked one very important question in the first term. Actually, that was the only point of the PVV: whether it can be reduced with development aid, given the exceptional situation we are now in. The Corona crisis has gripped the Netherlands; the financial and economic consequences are currently unseen. The Minister answered the question in writing, in no less than four sentences. Basically, no. Only, the argumentation is a bit linked to two thoughts, and that was also my question. Because she says: "To combat the consequences of the COVID-19 crisis in the Netherlands, significant financial provisions have been made. The cabinet sees no reason to add resources to combat the same crisis in other less prosperous countries." Now my question is, what does this mean? Does the cabinet believe that we have enough money to fight the crisis in the Netherlands, so can we miss it? Or is it: it doesn't matter whether we spend it there or here, because it's about the same crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u92	Well, I would come back to this point by Mrs Van Weerdenburg under the heading ODA budget anyway. That's what her question is about right now, but that was block three. But the question that was asked... She reads a part of the answer, but I do not have the literal question of the 200 questions that have been asked and answered in writing. But I think Mrs Van Weerdenburg belongs to the school that thinks development cooperation is a waste of money anyway and assumes the adage 'only in the Netherlands'. The cabinet has chosen, all successive Cabinets, including PVV-support, to invest in development cooperation and to work on stability and security. Not only for people elsewhere, because it is common human and smart to do, because at the same time this is also good for the Netherlands. So I guess we won't lose sight of that balance. And the resources available have, as you know, been preceded by a very long period of time to allocate additional resources, proportionately, to the commitment that the Netherlands used to make, and in particular to maintain this budget, because this is not a period in which you are going to cut short on the poorest. We just heard that children under 5 in Yemen are dying of famine. Then I think that a lot of Dutch people understand that Dutch taxpayers' money also goes to people who literally die of hunger, especially when it comes to children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u93	The Minister pretends that I'm asking something hugely bizarre or whatever, but it's just common sense. We need the money ourselves now. It's Dutch taxpayers' money. They're expecting a massive bankruptcy wave next year in the third quarter. A lot of people are gonna lose their jobs. Everyone is already thinking: how am I going to do it, how are we going to do it? You speak in your ten-minute introduction of offering hope, a good future, millions of households at risk of poverty. That's right here, Madam Secretary. And those people are watching now. Well, they've probably gone down by now. But we need it here, now. Of course, you can say that we do not choose to do so, but in England they choose to do so. The British Finance Minister has indicated that they are temporarily reducing the development aid budget by almost a third, in order to cope with the consequences of the corona crisis in Britain. So it's not that weird a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u94	It's the PVV's standard request. It's also a standard motion. This cabinet also believes in international cooperation with PVV-tolerance. I have deliberately started with defence, diplomacy, development cooperation and trade. It's an integral part of that. The British have temporarily reduced it. The Germans raised it by 3 billion. Well, who do you want to look like? The British economy is going very badly. The British have also chosen a Brexit, which will give them a huge financial noose. It's just the example you want to follow. This way we can do everything selectively. This is government policy. This is what we're doing. Fortunately, the coalition has also chosen to maintain this budget despite the harsh economic circumstances, and the coalition has chosen to make heavy intensifications available, naturally taking into account the needs of people. Poverty is very high in the Netherlands. 1,260,000 children live on the poverty line. We are all well aware of that. There are measures for this, but they do not fit into the external trade and development cooperation budget. There are other moments of discussion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u95	We have the same discussion here every year, the Minister and the PVV, but we are now in a completely different social reality. I do not know if the Minister can remember that in March, I believe, we sent a plane full of personal protective equipment, mouth caps and breathing equipment to China, because we had enough here anyway. Well, we were very sorry about that a month later. The Minister, this cabinet cannot see what the consequences will ultimately be for the Netherlands, because we are still in the middle of it. It's gonna turn out we couldn't miss it. And that's your fault. Then you can explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u96	Well, I'd be happy to. The whole cabinet will be happy to do that. After all, it also turns out that with the expansion of export credit instruments, which are also the subject of part of the budget, we have helped companies to stand still, so that they can act again when the time comes. If you want to do something about the root causes of poverty, climate change and, for example, terrorism, you have to invest in it. The costs are for the benefits, and the results are for them. It's an international agreement. There are expectations. I think the Netherlands is playing nicely in a way that can be done. It is not at the expense of people in the Netherlands. There are smart, sensible choices made and fellow humanity is also something that is worthwhile.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u98	Several members drew attention to the size of the ODA budget. Well, we've already made a nice start. Mr Voordewind called for an action plan towards 0.7%. That's a little different direction. There is no cover for such an action plan yet, but we can indeed calculate the amount that would be needed to get that 0.7%. The cabinet has made additional resources available to ensure that the Netherlands can move back a bit towards that 0.7%, which is the international standard. First of all, by stepping up the coalition agreement, correcting the cash slide of a previous government period and an additional 1 billion in intensification. In addition, the recent 500 million to compensate for the fall in GNI and to release funds for the fight against corona. As a result, we are expected to reach 0.61% of GNI by 2020. Without any action, we would have reached 0.48%. This maintains existing projects, planned policies and also expectations of many organisations, including the civil society organisations to which Mrs van den Hul referred. A possible follow-up step to work towards the ODA standard of 0.7% and thus the ODA budget, the cabinet looks at the right moments, but at the heart of the matter is the following. The budget we discussed last year took into account the growth of the budget, before corona, of course. You could say that the economic growth we expected before corona showed a rising graph. Seems like a long time ago. Economic growth and thus the ODA budget are lower due to the corona crisis. Without measures, we would have had to go down a downward path. But we've been able to maintain this and stabilize around 3 billion, being a horizontal line. We will thus remain at the level of the original planning for the 2020 budget. This will allow the budget to stabilise in the coming years. So running programs can continue. Fortunately, we do not have to open contracts either, because that would have been the order of the day, not even in the years after 2020. The budget for 2021 is indeed lower than was foreseen in the pre-corona time, but it does not go down compared to the budget for 2020. The increase of 500 million has been made available from the general resources to support the most vulnerable countries and people in the world. The 350 million was added to the current budget and the 150 million is for the corona-specific support package for additional measures, such as medicines, protective equipment and food packages. We also described this in a letter earlier. Because we could not fully cover the GNI reduction, we did indeed have to do a cash slide from later years for a total of EUR 464 million. And that's spicy, which is the first thing I have to say. That's not something some of us think of: what an achievement. But this can be addressed in a formation, as the cabinet did in a previous cabinet period with a larger cash drawer, also a period of crisis of that time. Mr Stoffer asked whether the budget for food security would remain the same. That is a clear yes. There will also be new agricultural programmes in countries such as Sudan, Nigeria and Jordan. Apart from the budgetary remarks, Mrs Van Weerdenburg had a number of questions or comments on abuses and possible situations of corruption. We have already discussed Mali in detail in a separate AO. That has been thoroughly investigated, as far as we can say. With regard to the scandal in Haiti, we have, of course, immediately demanded that SEA protocols be drawn up and strengthened. I indicated this earlier at the start of this discussion. We are fighting all wrongs as far as we can tell and hopefully we can prevent them further. We want this banned from the whole sector. But zero risk doesn't exist anywhere, not even in the Netherlands. In a complex context, therefore, we are working on combating poverty and preventing irregular migration and the negative consequences of climate change. The results will be recorded. Sometimes it's too easy to ignore. People do important work in extremely difficult circumstances. It may be small on the scale of a prosperous country like the Netherlands, but it is great in the lives of many people. In 1990, for example, there were almost 2 billion extremely poor people in the world. For corona, that's reduced to 700 million. Those are huge numbers, but that means something for people's lives. That means less pressure, less opportunity, and a chance of slightly greater prosperity. Under this heading, Mr Weverling asked about malpractices and checks-and-balances. I can assure Mr Weverling that even if there are suspicions of fraud, the embassy network The Hague and myself are on top of it. We're not running away from anything. We are also trying to learn from it and improve our own risk protocols, including in terms of financial management. We attach great importance to following up on all malpractices, because ultimately it is about tax money, and it is about being transparent. Of course, we also report annually on the number of proven malpractices. Sometimes there is also a suggestion of a malpractice. It's gonna be sorted out, and then it turns out there's nothing to worry about. That's what happens. But you will be provided with information and reporting on the proven malpractices. A comprehensive risk assessment is made prior to financing. As you know, we're being monitored. There are progress reports and audit reports. In the corona period, however, many of our embassy staff and our funded civil society organisations have often not been able to move themselves to the places where work is being carried out, so I think we should look even more closely in the next period to see if everything went well in the way we planned it and as we might expect it to be. That's what you see in the Netherlands. You have to be able to make big decisions. Large programmes are being implemented under difficult conditions. We do this in confidence with trusted partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u99	Where are you on this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u100	I'm almost there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u101	I'd finish, because you have five more topics to discuss. So I'd also like to see how much time you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u102	200 questions were also asked, Madam President. But I'll speed it up even more. I'll talk faster and sum up. A question about Lesbos, in particular about non-ODA expenditure and recent developments in Ethiopia. That was a question from Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Voordewind. There has been a great deal of debate and a motion has been adopted yesterday, I believe, in the discussion with the Secretary of State, Mrs Broekers-Knol. You know, also from previous debates, that I have exceptionally twice made funds available for shelter on the islands. We've done this through a number of organizations. I share the great concerns about the physical and mental health and the need for protection of those who are there. A new reception camp has been set up by the Greek authorities and the Commission in Lesbos, where 7,000 migrants and refugees are received. It appears to be wider and more structured than Moria. There are medical facilities again, but to a very limited extent, I think. As you know, the Netherlands has made an offer to Greece. The offer's been made. At the request of the Greek authorities, it has been agreed that the nomination should not be limited to persons residing on Lesbos and Moria at the time of the fires. So that could also be transferred amv's earlier. It turns out, but you all know this from the long debates that have taken place with the Secretary of State on this subject, that the relocation procedure still requires more time, including due diligence and delay by COVID-19. There was an expert mission last week to prepare for the arrival of selected candidates. The Secretary of State's commitment is still that all this can be completed before Christmas. The footage remains horrible. You also know from previous debates that the cabinet and the coalition have broken the coalition agreement on this issue. The intention is really that 100 vulnerable people, refugees, will be taken to the Netherlands. The motion has been passed. I know Secretary of State Broekers-Knol is working very hard. Well, I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr Voordewind and then Mrs Van den Hul. The questions must be brief, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr President, you are looking very closely at me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u105	No, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u106	Thank you for the comments on Lesbos. We had asked: what can the Minister do when it comes to the non-ODA? Because the ODA is tricky. I'll get an answer to that. My question is more about the 0.7. We have seen how, in the coalition, in particular, we had to clean away the 900 million cash-slide. That was a first battle in the cabinet negotiations. It's complicated, but it's possible. So I would make the call: if the Labour Party or the GroenLinks will be back at the table, brush away that cash slide. But I also ask the Minister: can she confirm that if the economy recovers, it can also evaporate? Of course, it's hard to look into a glass ball. We are now hardly using a cash drawer because we have had the 500 million. We use them mostly in the future. But it can evaporate. So I would ask the Minister to confirm that if the economy gets back on its feet, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u107	If the economy is attracting, then the ODA budget should in principle go up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u108	I have another question about Moria. The Minister says the coalition agreement has been broken. The ugly trade-off that lies behind that, let's leave it out of this debate today. I think one look at the situation there teaches us that we should all be very ashamed of ourselves here. We are getting signals that there are still no sanitary facilities, that in times of corona there are still very sad or hardly any medical facilities. The Minister referred earlier to the million it has made available. I would very much like to hear what has actually happened to that. What's better with that than it was?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u109	1 million is, of course, a drop on a glowing plate in this case. I also did it for reasons of principle. Billions of the Commission have gone to Greece for shelter. Part of the lack of care is indeed management, the situation itself. But money went to Movement on the Ground. That was about shelter, that was about tents, that was about emergency packages. Secretary of State Broekers-Knol had blankets delivered himself. I also sent money to the International Red Cross and the International Red Crescent to implement their programs, including access to mental health care and mental health care. But you never heard me say that I think this is a fantastic outcome. You know that. This is the situation in which we have been able to agree on this. Is this too poignant for a prosperous Europe? I couldn't agree more. Are there other solutions needed for the wider migration and refugee issues? Yeah, that too. That is what we want to do at European level. But the situation in Moria remains a great question for all of us. I'm willing to look again at the end of the year to see if we can do anything extra. Perhaps that was also the question that Mr Voordewind wanted to ask. However, the situation is such that half a million more will not change this situation. But we want these organisations to continue to function.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u110	We are getting reports that people are now washing in the sea, while temperatures are now falling. We're getting signals that kids with corona and healthy people are in tents. These are incredibly poignant situations, which this Minister could and should, in my view, do something about in the shorter term than at the end of the year. So my question to the Minister is: is she prepared to make an extra investment there in the short term to meet the enormous humanitarian needs? I call plumbing, WASH and caring for vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u111	I am prepared to examine this in the very short term at the end of the year, unfortunately, in a manner of speaking, within two weeks. I'll let you know. It remains that, unfortunately, it is not a lack of money. So we're really going to have to count on the NGOs here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u113	Then I move on to the heading gender equality, women's rights, sexual rights and health rights. There's been a change of plans, so hopefully I can cut it short. Mrs van den Hul rightly drew attention to the importance of the issue of violence against women. This is made possible by civil society through Leading from the South, the National Action Plan 1325, Funding Leadership and Opportunities for Women, and then through a number of UN organisations, including, of course, the UNFPA. We are looking at political action against violence against women at political level together with Canada and the United Kingdom. Minister Van Engelshoven and Mayor Marcouch van Arnhem kicked off the Orange the World campaign calling for violence against women to be combated. I participated virtually, because I couldn't go to Arnhem. I am also constantly talking to European counterparts about this. I also believe that this should be high on the agenda of the European Councils. It should also be an important part of the third EU Gender Action Plan. I therefore hope that the EU will comply with Mrs van den Hul's request. Mr Voordewind asked for the fund to be continued after 2022 to combat child prostitution. It just turns out to be a very important theme. You have also tabled amendments to release EUR 5 million per year to combat child prostitution. They've been executed. The grant framework has been adapted accordingly. A grant framework of EUR 5 million has been published for 2021. I can assure you from my position that a future minister will certainly continue to raise this issue and support it, because it is too important. It also says something about our commitment as the Netherlands. Then heading five, civil society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u115	I have one more question for the Minister about heading four, chapter gender. Thank you for her commitment to continue to work on gender-based violence at European level, which is a very important issue. My question was actually about the SDG test and the gender scan that we need to apply to policies and legislation. Research carried out by Building Change has shown that this SDG test has actually only been applied to one law. That is the budget we are discussing today. In the rest of the legislation, the SDG test is not yet specifically mentioned in the explanatory notes, although that is the intention. Also not by legislation from the Ministry of this Minister. My question is very simple: when are we going to see this in concrete terms in legislation? For example, on Invest International and conflict minerals. There is still some legislation. When are we going to see that again and what is this Minister going to do to promote transparency in it so that we can really see that coherence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u116	I shall come back to this very briefly in the second term. But recently, the cabinet has indeed adopted a more structured approach at my intercession. I recognise as no other that we have talked nicely about the SDGs, but if we do not implement it fully ourselves and test it, then we will not get much further and we too are subject to it. So I can make that commitment. But how easy that is, it's probably up to next Cabinets as well. One thing is certain: I do not think you should leave the SDG coordination with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. It might have to go to another ministry. I'll give this to the future reformers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u117	Please continue. First election, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u118	Absolutely, but I'm also free to look ahead. There are parties in this Chamber who may have opinions on that. Then civil society. You know better than anyone that civil society is alive. It comes from our society and has always been an important partner in the thought, in the implementation and, of course, in the implementation of development cooperation. Local NGOs are increasingly an important partner. That is actually also the spirit of Power of Voices, because we want to strengthen civil society and give Dutch civil society involved organisations who really want to build a partnership with local organisations there. But it's very important that we can support that shift, because local organizations know how it works like no other. They are also a source of political voice and vote against. So there are many southern alliances that can now start thanks to Power of Voices, 66%. That's really good. They work together with other local NGOs themselves. I share Mrs van den Hul's view that these organisations have again demonstrated their interest in the corona crisis. Mrs van den Hul is right to systematically ask what embassies can and can do, and whether they can do more for civil society, especially in countries where that space is restricted by authoritarian regimes. There is of course the toolkit. I myself speak when I travel, and I also think that Minister Blok and other ministers are systematically speaking with representatives of civil society. Round tables are organised. We also want to give them that political attention and a little protection, so that the governments with which we are talking know that we are watching. This is also what we expect at European level. If acute situations arise, such as the security of Dr Mukwege, Nobel Prize winner, then the Netherlands also takes a step and organises it. By the way, that was done by my predecessor, Minister Ploumen. Embassies continue to be important advocates and partners of these organisations and our special ambassadors, whether they are for human rights, for women's rights or for freedom of religion and belief. Mr Weverling was critical of the fact that the government gave civil society organisations public subsidies, on which these organisations took the liberty of criticising public policy. I think we have already had this debate in the Chamber. I just want to confirm that the cabinet sees and considers these kinds of choices of civil society as a fundamental part of the democratic system. It keeps us sharp. It can improve policy, and at least the debate is becoming more inclusive and I think more credible, because all sides are being highlighted and focused. This freedom of civil society, that is what we all stand for. Mr Van Haga asked whether a certain independence could be demanded from receiving organisations and how we check whether the money is being spent properly. In order to be eligible for a grant, the applicant must demonstrate that 25% of its total income is dependent on sources other than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is therefore a degree of financial independence. Furthermore, the monitoring of the use of funds is carried out by appropriate means: reports, audit reports and interviews with the organisations. We do that in accordance with the usual procedures. Furthermore, in the run-up to the Policy Framework for Strengthening Social Centre Field, we also want to see how we can introduce even better monitoring, evaluation and learning from experience into the dialogue with these organisations as well. That's what we're going to invest externally, to keep a sharp eye on ourselves as well. Mr Voordewind noted that we have actually just had a relative increase in resources through multilateral organisations and called for more balance. That is actually a bit of the point that Mrs van den Hul also made. I have said before that we do not send on channels, but look at themes and results and look for partners. But we always remember the importance of balance, absolutely. Madam President, I would have had the head of civil society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u119	I see Mr Voordewind, but I see Mrs Van den Hul first. This is your seventh question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u120	I know, Mr. Chairman. I would like to devote my seventh question to a very important issue, namely human rights defenders. We are seeing acute crises right now. Colleagues of ours have been detained in Hong Kong. Two weeks ago, human rights defenders were taken from their beds in Egypt. The situation is actually getting worse every day. Corona helps corrupt and authoritarian regimes. My question to the Minister is as follows. Can it do more than what is happening at European level? Does she have the impression that we are sufficiently in line with that? Can we therefore go a long way in this respect, including her colleague in the Foreign Office? Some of us are also dealing with a diplomatic issue, which, of course, also has a trade component. I would very much like to hear more from the Minister about our acute commitment, as we see this shrinking space shrinking ever further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u121	Yes, I certainly think that we can and must do much more at European level, including with the High Representative, because in the end that is the political voice most heard by a few large countries. We can do more, too. I'll act in every Council. It's true that you always fall back on the most like-minded countries. You can count them yourself on a few hands. It is only the implementation that is often lacking. The EU itself, the Commission, often has relations that I consider to be more of a programmer than the more political dimension of the voice and role of civil society, particularly in the broad framework of trade unions and also human rights representatives. There is, I think, still some ground to gain, and I am happy to commit myself to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u122	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u123	Then I come to climate and deforestation. I think some pieces of that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u124	Sorry, before you continue, Mr Voordewind has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u125	It's a bit of a sit and stand, but I'm waiting my turn nicely. We have just talked about supporting civil society. We talked about Power of Voices. But if you look at the breadth of the figures, you can see that, despite reducing the scope for civil society organisations, especially in the South, the funding of civil society goes to 17%. The funding of the multi's goes from 34% to 42% during this cabinet period. I know the Minister says, "We don't send on channels." But in these circumstances, we must sit in the capillaries of society. The capacity for this lies mainly with civil society organisations. We're thinking Ihbtis, journalists, etcetera. You'd have to use those civil society organisations, wouldn't you? So what's with the trend down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u126	We do, but like we said, we have chosen themes. We'll send it. Extra money went to the U.N. That is indeed part of the reversal in the first phase of the granting of the corona fees. Furthermore, we should not forget that many UN organisations that we support as executive partners only have NGOs. UNHCR is 70% dependent on NGOs for emergency aid. It's always been that way. So is the World Food Organization. So NGOs get involved in everything. The political presence of civil society is, of course, also on the side of Minister Blok. This is going to be done through other funds and through political consultation and the support we have. But I think we have made a good balance between the channels and the choices we have made at this stage. And of course Power of Voices still has to start. Let's be clear about that, too. This amounts to almost 1 billion for civil society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u127	It is true that civil society organisations also have sub-contracts with UN institutions. But we are often told: yes, but we have to go through whole processes. That overhead of about 20% to 30% will then remain with the organisations. Why not finance these organisations directly? Let me give you one more example, and I will stop talking about it. When we look at covid spending, we see that 10% goes to the NGOs and 90% to the multi's. I get the pace, so I get it for the most part. But we've also got DRA. I also understand that we are closing 60 million to that, but I would like to encourage the Minister to translate the 25% ambition we once agreed on here into emergency aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u128	At the end of the year, we are always looking at how the additional resources we have found may be allocated. Emergency aid is, of course, an important factor in this. They always look at who can do what where. Sometimes it is soft earmarking for countries, sometimes it is indeed a channel choice. I will actively consider the suggestion that we look again in the framework of emergency aid. A letter will be sent to the Chamber in about two weeks. But I'm not saying yes and I'm not saying no; I'm taking the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u129	Am I to understand that the heading of civil society has now been completely completed? Well, then I have one more question. In my first term, I took up the position of free journalism. I asked you to do that. We discussed this earlier, and you referred to the letter we were going to receive from Minister Blok. We have had them, and they were mainly concerned with emergency aid: 9 million and 1 million from the Human Rights Fund, for emergency emergency aid. But you're the Minister for Development Cooperation. Building independent, good journalism should be part of our programme. That's what it was all about. We had 70 million for five years. But for that, there's zero euro in the new budget. Are there any other things you can do to support journalism and to ensure that free journalism is allowed to develop, so that that free voice, that free information gathering and that coverage stays in order in developing countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr Van den Nieuwenhuizen referred to the subsidy framework for the tender for Power of Voices. This has been established on the basis of a number of criteria and objectives. Free press wasn't part of that. I also know that one or two submissions did not pass the official inspection. Then, of course, it is not up to us to vote in favour of it. But I understand the importance of building free journalism as a channel and as a voice for civil society, and to counterweight. I understand that Minister Blok has given extra money to close a possible hole that would arise again. So I do not know whether you mean looking for additional resources, or whether you want to see how we can build up the free press in a number of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u131	I'm gonna use an interruption to do that. Minister Blok has come up with a solution for a year. After that, it's actually falling out of our hands. And it's emergency aid, it's ad hoc, it's not structural and it's not building up. We've debated this before. I understand where your dilemma lies, with the tender and that story. But do you see the importance of capacity building? Do you see that in our focus countries we may have to do something through our embassies, through I don't know what? Could you please see where we can play a role in capacity building? That could be support, in all kinds of forms. Maybe it's money; that would be great. But if that is not the case, please do it in another way, because we can't drop the free press in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u132	I agree that this is important. Two. I believe that our posts and embassies, even without money, can indeed mean a lot when building up, when talking, when facilitating. I will look at that again with Minister Blok. But from my mandate, I will see what is needed. I think we're looking at capacity, not direct funding. Because that framework has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u133	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u134	Then I come to climate and deforestation. As I said, we discussed it extensively on Monday thanks to an initiative paper by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. But I will come back to the questions that have been asked about climate and deforestation. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen asked what I have done to reduce the share of fossil transactions in export credit insurance. I think it is indeed very important that we bet on greening the ekv. On 2 October last, Secretary of State Vijlbrief and I informed the Chamber about this. A number of changes have been made. We have now reached 20% of the transaction volume in 2019 that can be classified as really green. You were informed on 16 November of a number of additional measures taken by Secretary of State Vijlbrief to encourage exporting companies to come out of the crisis greener. And Secretary of State Vijlbrief undertook in the AO of 19 November on export credit insurance instruments to work internationally to reduce support for fossil projects through export credit insurance. In the EU and OECD context, we are committed to phasing out the ekv coverage on fossil transactions. Of course, it is also a question of building an international level playing field, but I do believe that the bar should be raised here. We should not use the argument of a level playing field to never do anything and postpone greening. Secretary of State Vijlbrief also announces that it will be the first to develop scenarios for the phasing out of fossil. It will address the question of how the Netherlands can align with the Paris climate targets and their impact on Dutch employment and exports. I would like to point out that I also see a great deal of opportunities here for Dutch exports and for those companies that have new technology to offer. Mr Van Raan asks to make ecocide criminal...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u135	Finish your sentence, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u136	Okay. I'll finish my block on climate and deforestation. Mr Van Raan is systematically calling for ecocide to be criminalised. So we also talked about this on Monday, during the note conference Keep the Forest. Only in a number of countries is ecocide punishable by law; Mr Van Raan will know better than I do. I think he was concerned with ecocide legislation. The question is whether such legislation has the desired effect, partly because enforcement is difficult. But there is currently insufficient international support to anchor it anywhere in international law. I made the comparison with genocide on Monday, which is included in the Rome Statute. There too, however, there is unfortunately no basis for acceptance, just to reflect the current priorities of international politics. So from this point of view, the cabinet is looking at effectiveness and our efforts. We are focusing in particular on preventing the destruction and damage of ecosystems, and on further combating the degradation of biodiversity. We can do this through development, but also through international agreements, of course. I have already mentioned a large number of the partnerships on Monday; I will not repeat them here. Mr Bouali asked how we could proceed to combat deforestation. He specifically asked what we could do at European level when it comes to the responsibility for accessing products to the European market. Can we exclude products based on the mode of production? That is almost unacceptable, in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation. I would like to point out that I think we should take a look at that as well. I'd be happy to bet on a start in Geneva. That's important. Other things are possible, such as doubling the funding of programmes to combat deforestation. You are all familiar with the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. We've intensified that, too. The ADP countries recently called on Brazil to cooperate to combat deforestation and to sustain agricultural trade chains. The dialogue on this issue has now begun. The Netherlands also wants the EU to provide an ambitious response to the EU communication on combating deforestation. If there is a regulation, you may be able to exclude products from the European market on that basis. That was all discussed on Monday. Then there's a separate block, but I'll leave that for a while, because that's not part of climate and deforestation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u137	This is still about export credit insurance. That's what I asked for. I'm pleased with the ambitions you have. In that context, I am actually very curious to see what you and Secretary of State Vijlbrief have been thinking about recently granting extensive export credit insurance to Dutch companies involved in major gas projects in North Mozambique. It indicates that this type of insurance is a commodity curse: affluent terrorism, environmental damage, risks to local ecosystems, risks to local residents, as well as socio-economic risks and problems. Mozambican experts even point to the link between mega-investments by Western countries of this nature and inflammatory Muslim terrorism. We understood in the AO last week that this was a difficult consideration and that you have thought a long time about it. I am very curious to know how you finally came to the conclusion that this is a good decision and that we do have to provide this export credit insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u138	I have to go back to the details in the second term. I don't have them so sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u139	By the way, the Minister said that she was prepared to raise with the World Trade Organisation in Geneva that production standards could be taken into account when banning or banning products from the internal market. Is she willing to include things such as living wages, so social aspects? Can they be taken into account, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u140	I did indeed address a general question. I'm gonna have to specify it a little bit. I think it is an important point. Mr Alkaya also knows that the Netherlands is funding the ILO to study a living wage in seven countries and not a minimum wage, because in many countries that is simply an insult to man. I think a wage should fit within that broad framework, but I would like to come back to this at another time. I'm gonna have to get it sorted out first. I'd like to have some discussions on that in Geneva. We need to see what could be part of that. This is something the Commission should actually do, but we have our own position in Geneva.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u141	And "later back on" isn't in the second term, but at another time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u142	That's not in the second term, no. Then I have no better answer than this. This is a bet. I'd like to come back to that in a follow-up meeting with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mr. Alkaya?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u144	I understand that this is an effort obligation. Still, I'd like to stay informed about this. Can the Minister promise to come forward with a letter at least before the elections on how she addressed this in Geneva, what the reactions were and what the follow-up steps are? This could, of course, be an important point for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u145	Yes, I personally do not want to associate this with the elections, perhaps unlike Mr Alkaya. I'll get back to you as soon as we get a better picture. That might be next month. If that is important, I would like to make a commitment to doing so before the elections, but I cannot promise how substantive the answer will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u146	At the middle interrupt microphone, the place is still clean, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u147	My last two questions. The first is also about export credit insurance. It has just been outlined that there will be a phasing-out. Can the Minister promise, either via File letter or directly, to come up with a letter in which that phasing-out path is also appointed in time? There has been talk for a long time about phasing out, but it would be nice if it were something more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u148	I will confirm in second term what that looks like. I do not know what details my colleague Mr Vijlbrief has already explained during the AO he had. It is good to know, because perhaps he has already confirmed that in his own committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u149	The last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u150	It's about ecocide, of course, Mr. Chairman. The Minister sketches the picture that there could not yet be enough support for this. History repeats itself. I am sorry to explain this, but it is perhaps good to report that in the 1990s the Netherlands also kept the criminalisation of ecocide active from the Rome Statute, together with illustrious partners such as the United States and Saudi Arabia. So there is a long history of stopping criminalisation. In fact, my question is: if there is no support for this, is the Minister prepared to cooperate in order to gain support in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u151	I'm gonna have to look at this more broadly. This is about treaties and international political and diplomatic commitment. I have already said that the cabinet itself makes the assessment that this is not the great priority of the day. We have made a different choice, and that is the active fight against deforestation and climate change, including through diplomatic means. There are a lot of jumps to make there. I myself estimate that the time is not yet ripe for this period, not even for a cabinet commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u152	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u153	Then I'll make a little bridge to the last two cubes. Mr Amhaouch asked how development cooperation and external trade now relate to each other and whether we should not talk about 'economic relations'. We have them anyway, whether they're good or bad, or need improvement. We always do. We do the same with developing countries, because everyone in this Chamber knows better than anyone that all countries want trade. All countries want to flourish internationally, and trade is one of the means to achieve that. They all want to get rid of the help somehow. So this is related to each other, but also to the construction of the economy. This in turn leads to a strengthening of economic relations. The EU does so, inter alia, through the SGP. Mr Weverling asked for opportunities to use our top sectors for development cooperation. He called it "connected help." We know, of course, officially international only tied and untied aid. The Netherlands has been a strong supporter of unbound aid for many years, but I myself have also used the word "connected" to indicate that there can often be a presorting in the execution because of knowledge and skills and the reputation of Dutch companies and knowledge institutions. In that I see a form of connectedness. I also see this in the commitment that many companies and people want to make to improve the lives of others. Knowledge and skills are essential. So yes, Dutch knowledge and skills are used, but it remains formally unbound help. Then I come to block seven, support for business and the Trade Agenda. As this Chamber knows, we have deployed early on a proactive Trade Agenda. It's been discussed, too. It is in fact an elaboration of the policy paper and the priorities of the coalition agreement. What happened? The RVO toolbox is even more focused on the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. That will always be a concern. We know that many entrepreneurs cannot find their way in the many portals and all the information they provide, but we are working hard to improve this continuously. There is also a very strong start-up ecosystem, which is developing further. They are also part of the trade missions. Hubs for start-ups have been strengthened in six of the major cities where start-ups really want to find their way. I refer here to Berlin, London, Paris, but of course also San Francisco, Los Angeles, Boston, New York City and Singapore. A number of start-up trading missions have been carried out. I have also identified female entrepreneurship as one of the priorities in the Trade Agenda. The emancipation of women, young girls, also takes place through economic autonomy. Trade in the formal economy is a good spearhead from the Netherlands, because we can still take a big step in this, but also, of course, in developing countries and middle-income countries. Through the public-private partnership, many business hubs have been established such as NLinBusiness, to better support Dutch entrepreneurs abroad. Of course, our embassies continue to do fantastic work when there are visits. That goes for the economic attachés and everyone there. Everyone's supported. Since the start of the implementation of the Trade Agenda there have been 23 outgoing trade missions. In accordance with the reports we have received and the polls we have made, it leads to an agreement in 75% of the cases, at least among the participants. That's a lot. Contacts actually lead to contracts. International corporate social responsibility as a spearhead, starting point and measuring tool remains very important in this regard. I also mentioned earlier that companies were excluded from participation because they did not want to endorse or report on the imvo policy or because, after they had been addressed on non-compliance, they themselves said that they do not participate in a trade mission. It is modest, but we will come back to this on 8 December when we discuss the measures proposed by the cabinet for the imvo. So much is happening. At the same time, of course, we also know that many companies have been affected during this period, but you are aware of the wide range of measures taken by the Cabinet. Of course, I have already mentioned what we have all done in the field of export promotion, support, postponement of payment and extension of the credit period, the instruments that I myself deal with with Mr Vijlbrief. Mr Weverling asked about support for small and medium-sized enterprises. That was also actively supported during the corona crisis. The public-private package to support exporting SMEs aims at gathering information, disseminating market information and market explorations. Today, we are doing everything virtually, which is also quite easy for many SMEs who do not want to make the first step yet and often back down on costs. Now that a trade mission or contacts can be organised virtually, we notice that many SMEs are participating and that demand is actually increasing. I have also spoken about the role of posts. Mr Weverling also asked how we could make business tools more transparent and accessible for the marketing of knowledge and services. I expect Invest International to make a big leap here. You will soon be fully informed and we will discuss this during the legislative consultation, which is scheduled for 14 December. In any case, it is intended that a department will be set up at Invest International to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, an important engine of the Dutch economy and increasingly relevant in many countries, including outside Europe. The financing arrangements are therefore placed behind one point of contact. This should also be easier for the customer, in this case also for SMEs. Through international strategic consultations, a public-private action plan will be drawn up to make SME funding even more accessible to international activities. Minister Wiebes and I are in that together from the cabinet side. We are a sort of observer there; we are not formal members. Mr Alkaya once asked questions about this and I replied in writing. Then I come to the African Task Force and Mr Amhaouch's questions. I hope that after AO Africa, where all Mr Amhaouch's questions have already been answered, he will know that the cabinet is indeed taking part. The Task Force is a network for tackling trade barriers to investment. There are five new opportunities that have been launched for our SMEs in healthcare, agrofood, waste and circular solutions, renewable energy and water. We are looking at pilot partnerships in Africa that could be important for trade and investment. African coalition companies are also served with the pilots from the recent public-private partnership for the cocoa chain. That is one example, but we are working very closely and the cabinet also really sees the value of the task force and the ideas that result from it. Mr Amhaouch asked me to agree to make Invest International a reality for this cabinet period. In July 2020, together with the Minister of Finance, I sent the bill for the creation of Invest International to the House of Representatives. We have the treatment on December 14th. We hope, of course, that, precisely in order to help entrepreneurs out of this crisis, there will be a lot of interest once the window is opened, because there are real opportunities here. I also see the mix of SDGs, climate action and opportunities for Dutch business as very hopeful. There is, of course, the possibility for SMEs to cooperate with regional development companies through Invest International. This offers very new opportunities, including for a number of regions in the Netherlands. Mr Weverling also asked about Invest International's maximum project size in relation to the level playing field. That maximum size isn't getting any bigger. concessional funding is available, but there are also the DRIVE and Develop2Build programmes for developing country governments for infrastructure projects. There is a maximum project size for DRIVE, precisely because there is an international financing niche for projects of this size. But Invest International also receives investment capital and project development funds, and no maximum project size has been set there. It is often about project development, the first phase, in which companies are reluctant to participate or not. There are the big cost items. One final question on this block, Madam President, and then I come to the latter. Mr Stoffer asked if there was good banking support, which we could promote for small and medium-sized enterprises. And he asked about compliance with the OECD guidelines. Well, on the OECD guidelines, I might come back to international corporate social responsibility. There is good cooperation with banks in supporting SMEs. That, of course, remains essential. And I just mentioned the International Strategic Consultation. There, too, we are looking with the banks at the public-private action plan to improve and facilitate SME funding. And Invest International, I'm hanging a lot on that right now, but that should make this all much easier and more insightful for everyone, and thus also provide more leverage in that area. Then I come to the last cup, Madam President. Admittedly, the AO that we'll be expanding here next week...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u154	It's a notebook meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u155	Yeah, that's right. We're working on sustainability. As this Chamber knows, the policy has been evaluated. We'll talk about that. Mr Weverling, Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Raan and Mr Alkaya made a number of comments. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen asked whether it was time to stop relying on the goodness of the companies. Well, yes and no. We have to be able to put our trust in it, but we also make directives and we make demands, and we measure and we talk when things go wrong. So it's not a question of naivety, but we still have a certain amount of demands and expect to be delivered to them, without just relying on the beautiful stories that might be told. We are also looking at how that relates to the results. But I think that the mix of measures that we have proposed as a cabinet is a much bigger step towards a framework, possible legislation, a number of instruments that we can steer towards, with clarity about expectations and demands. That will also give peace to many of the companies that really want to do the right thing, but are a bit lost and say: what bar am I going to be measured by? I hear that a lot from small and medium-sized enterprises. We are in favour of binding legislation. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mr Van Raan and Mr Voordewind also advocated this, with a reference to the Imvo note. And there was already the question, actually in anticipation of the consultation, whether we should not start at national level now, or whether we should wait for European legislation. Mr Weverling contrasted that and said: we should go only to international rules for international corporate social responsibility at European level, and not cut down on Dutch companies. Well, we'll discuss this next week. However, Madam President, this is just as a conclusion, because much has been said about it in the first term of the Chamber: the cabinet is ideally looking at a European approach, including legislation, but we are continuing to develop national measures in what I consider to be a smart mix: a degree of voluntaryity, information improvement and non-compliance legislation. Mrs Van den Hul asked whether subscription and compliance with the OECD guidelines were a harsh condition for subsidy. The answer is yes, when it comes to eligibility for support from the external trade and development cooperation budget. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u156	Thank you. I actually want to suspend for five minutes now, and then the second term. After that second term, we'll have lunch. Then perhaps the Minister may also have a little longer time to answer any motions and questions. Yeah? I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u157	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I conclude that in recent hours we have listened to a UN envoy who has been seconded to the Dutch cabinet. In any case, Mrs Kaag has no regard for the suffering of citizens within our borders. I have repeatedly referred to the uncertain future that we are facing because of the continuing corona crisis. It is very unwise to send billions of Dutch taxpayers' money abroad in crisis time. We need that money ourselves now, here in the Netherlands, for our own people and our own companies. Financial experts are expecting a bankruptcy wave next year. Unemployment will rise. No one knows what the financial and economic consequences will ultimately be, not even this cabinet. To say that we can miss these development billions, the PVV finds really unacceptable and irresponsible. We have all pledged our allegiance here to the Constitution, which instructs us to ensure the survival of the population. The Dutch people, something that is self-evident for the PVV, but not for this cabinet and this minister. Mr. Chairman. The British government is just doing it. It reduces the budget for development aid by almost one third, in order to cope with the effects of the corona crisis in its own country. The British Finance Minister called it a reflection of the people's priorities in this unprecedented economic state of emergency. If only our leaders had their priorities in order. If only this cabinet had such common sense. If only this minister had an eye for the suffering of the Dutch. Mr. Chairman. I hope that my colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber will see that this special time is crying out for special measures and that they will do what is necessary for the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in accordance with Article 20 (1) of the Constitution, public authorities should ensure the survival of the (Dutch) population;]] [[Considering that the corona crisis has a huge impact on the Dutch economy, employment and the financial position of citizens and businesses and that this economic and financial impact will increase as the corona crisis continues;]] [[calls on the Government not to enter into any new obligations or to make additional expenditure in the field of development cooperation and to suspend all non-legally compulsory expenditure during the corona crisis, i.e. as long as restrictive corona measures are in force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. However, the PVV believes that all public development aid should be stopped anyway. It's simply not of this time anymore. Let citizens decide whether they want to donate their hard-earned money and what to do. Trust their generosity. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch have traditionally been very generous and can very well decide for themselves whether and to what charity they want to donate their money to;]] [[calls on the government not to spend another penny on development aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u161	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For real emergency aid, for example after a disaster, the VVD always wants to raise money. In the case of emergency aid, too, there is a need to continue to innovate. Through the amendment with my name on it, we are releasing EUR 5 million for such an innovation, Wings For Aid. They develop unmanned, unarmed drones to get emergency relief in hard-to-reach places. The funds from this amendment provide support to get these drones into the air as soon as possible so that people in distress can be helped. In November 2015 it was my former colleague Teeven who, together with Mr Smaling, already tabled an amendment to give Wings For Aid a flying start. Today's amendment is a good follow-up to this. Can the Minister confirm that the EUR 5 million will also be made available to Wings For Aid in the short term? Then there are a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2019 an Africa Strategy was developed by a group of private sector parties for the Dutch business community;]] [[noting that the NABC as part of this group translated the Africa Strategy into a concrete plan of action, namely the 15/15 Action Plan;]] [[Whereas the 15/15 Action Plan is an initiative that builds 15 groups of Dutch companies (consortia) which then go on to the African markets for several years to do sustainable business with local partners and form partnerships;]] [[Whereas the objective of the Africa Task Force set up by the Minister is to encourage such opportunities to redeem concrete earning opportunities for the Netherlands and Africa and to encourage public-private partnerships;]] [[Calls on the Minister to contact NABC and the Africa Task Force to implement the 15/15 Action Plan;]] [[calls on the Minister to provide the necessary support to launch the first phase of the 15/15 action plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the post-Cotonou Convention is the EU's most comprehensive partnership agreement with developing countries in, inter alia, Africa;]] [[Whereas the post-Cotonou Convention should contain clear, binding agreements on tackling irregular migration and return cooperation;]] [[Whereas a mechanism for the effective return of outlawed nationals and the obligation of the parties to take their own nationals back without conditions are crucial in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to incorporate these mandatory migration arrangements, linked to the principle of more for more and less for less, into the post-Cotonou Convention and to make the support for this Convention depend on the extent to which this has been achieved in the final agreement, and to inform the Court explicitly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Court of Auditors has found that European development aid is spread across a wide range of sectors and that this increases the risk of not achieving significant results;]] [[noting that the European Court of Auditors has also found that European policies do not allow for linking development aid to progress in the fight against corruption, while corruption has a very negative impact on economic development;]] [[Considering that the European Union intends to spend more than EUR 70 billion on development cooperation over the next seven years, but that the effectiveness of these expenditures will be inadequate or will not be determined at all if a more focused policy is not chosen with a greater focus on combating corruption and accountability of expenditure;]] [[calls on the Government to insist that the European Union adopt the consistent recommendations of the European Court of Auditors on linking support to anti-corruption, focusing policies and improving the accountability and transparency of expenditure through more checks-and-balances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Weverling and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-15]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Weverling and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u163	Well, now two more, and I've got four minutes left, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u164	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u165	Good. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in a number of sectors of crucial importance for economic development, such as agriculture, horticulture, water management and maritime infrastructure, the Netherlands has exceptional expertise and expertise to assist developing countries;]] [[Whereas the policy of linking development cooperation to the use of this national expertise is much more common in other European OECD countries, such as Austria, Germany, Denmark, France and Sweden, but the Netherlands is relatively behind;]] [[calls on the government, on the basis of the experience of other OECD countries, to make better use of the knowledge and skills of Dutch companies in achieving development objectives by making them play a more central role in OS policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u166	Then there's a motion on China. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas China continues to enjoy improper benefits due to the status of developing country at the WTO and in other organisations, whereas this status is objectively no longer appropriate to Chinese development, economic influence and impact;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibilities of using economic market power in a broad international coalition with like-minded countries to achieve a concrete timetable for the phasing out of China's OS status in various international contexts and the benefits it enjoys,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u167	Finally, a question, through you, Mr President, to the Minister. The new US President Biden, together with Europe, wants to step up pressure against unfair Chinese commercial practices. In his strategy, he clings to the charges against China as a leverage, as he said in The New York Times this week. Does the Minister agree with Biden that these charges are a useful means of pressure? I'd like to hear the answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u168	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr. Chairman. The pandemic has hit the whole world hard, but as so often it is the poorest who suffer the most and also have the least possibility of getting back on their feet. An urgent issue is the availability of vaccines for developing countries. That has been the subject of fine words since March, but now that the poorest countries seem to be back in line again. Can the Minister explain what the Netherlands is doing in this area? How many extra vaccines have we bought? Who are we gonna share it with and when? Mr. Chairman. My group is disappointed that this Minister has not managed to keep OS expenditure up to date and to embrace the AIV opinion. That is a missed opportunity, because the Netherlands does a lot of excellent work through its OS policy. I would like to thank this Minister very much for that, but we could and should support so many more important things, for example the independent press. The Minister has just made a good commitment on this. Mr. Chairman. In fact, an independent civil society is of great importance in the broadest sense. In the first term of this debate, it was suggested that the cabinet should not finance NGOs criticising cabinet policy. That was a worrisome plea. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an independent civil society, with the full freedom to criticise public policies, is of the utmost importance in the functioning of a healthy democracy;]] [[Whereas contradiction is indispensable for effective checks-and-balances and hence for the quality of policy-making and policy implementation;]] [[points out that the funding of civil society organisations should be assessed on the quality of their programmes and never on the level of support for government policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Van Ojik and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mr. Chairman. NGOs that only talk about the government: that brings me to the situation in China. Last week, as a committee, we were able to question clothing companies about the terrible situation of the Uighurs in China. They are oppressed, discriminated against, thrown into criminal camps, brainwashed, tortured, exterminated. It's a human-rights disaster. We, in the Netherlands, contribute to this by buying clothes created with the help of forced labour. I don't want to launch an attack on business today. Many clothing and textiles companies have genuinely tried to avoid these abuses, but it appears to be virtually impossible to see the entire production chain. The Chinese government does not give access and sows fear by threatening with reprisals. And I do not want to launch the attack today on our Dutch consumer either. Over the last ten years, we have all become much more aware of the harmful effects of our clothing production, of child labour, of CO2 emissions and now of Uighur forced labour. Mr. Chairman. The nasty conclusion is: however conscious we are, it doesn't matter. Even companies that do very well say they can't guarantee that their clothes are clean. Meanwhile, dialogue with China on human rights is still impossible. For decades, no progress has been made and China continues to repeat the same message: Mind your own business. Enough is enough. We need to get out of there. Period! There is no other option, there is no more time or room for constructive solutions. It may be easy not to think about it, not to talk about it, but we have been contributing to atrocities in China for years. Unconsciously, unintentionally, but we'll do it. It's done now. The Netherlands can ensure that we no longer contribute to these violations by withdrawing and encouraging other European countries to follow us. In this way, we speak a language that China understands, that of economic motives and power. Business is important, but not at the expense of human rights. Today, together with the PvdA, D66 and the Christian Union, we presented the plan Stop Forced Labour Uighurs in the Dutch textile chains. The CDA has also received the plan sympathetically. I also have a copy here for this minister. I'll give it to her in a minute. Mr. Chairman. Let's hit China where it hurts. That's why I have two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas NGOs can monitor at the border where certain import products come from, at factory level, when they gain insight into customs data;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has a closed system of customs data and there is little uniformity between Member States at European level;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the Dutch customs data system, making full customs data on imports and exports, including the specific supplier, available to NGOs and researchers, and to promote a similar system within the EU for all Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u171	And finally, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the basis of discussions with the clothing and textile industry, no textile and clothing company active in China can guarantee not to contribute to human rights violations against Uighurs, including outside Xinjiang;]] [[calls on the government to urge companies to move from Xinjiang and, if necessary, China and to move supply chains to other countries, through our postal network, to urgently draw attention to OECD guidelines, to encourage Dutch textile and clothing companies to leave Xinjiang and, if necessary, to move supply chains to other countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Alkaya, Mr Voordewind and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u173	Thank you. What you want to give to the minister can be done through the messenger. The motions go to the clerk. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u174	Mr President, thank you. Thanks also to the Minister and the support for answering the questions and also thanks for her commitment in recent years. I started my story a few weeks ago with the deadliest infectious disease in the world, tuberculosis, which is now causing many more victims because of the consequences of covid. Covid is therefore much wider than just this infectious disease. It also shows the importance of strengthening global healthcare. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the COVID-19 pandemic demonstrates the need for a global health strategy;]] [[noting that there are different global initiatives to strengthen the coherence of health systems;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should take part in these initiatives where it has added value;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a study on the added value and potential of a Dutch Global Health Strategy, including:]] [[understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the global health infrastructure;]] [[suggestions to create cohesion within health issues in the Dutch OS policy;]] [[an overview of global initiatives and where the Netherlands has added value;]] [[on which themes, diseases and medical products should focus the Netherlands in order to maintain or acquire a Dutch global leadership position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u175	Research and development are also important, our knowledge. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the budget for Product Development Partnerships (PDPs) would expire this year, but was extended by one year;]] [[noting that PDPs are an important part of the OS-R&D agenda;]] [[Whereas the success of PDPs for, among other things, the fight against TB is significant;]] [[calls on the Minister to carry out the planned evaluation of PDPs as soon as possible and to focus on a new multiannual deployment of PDPs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u176	Mr. Chairman. My colleague Amhaouch spoke about Africa's strategy. On his behalf, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the African common market is developing and offers great opportunities for Dutch industry and that the EU is also taking concrete steps to promote the African internal market;]] [[Whereas the Africa Task Force has an important role to play in strengthening the Dutch trade agenda;]] [[Whereas the aim of the Africa Task Force is to identify and remove trade barriers for the Dutch business community in Africa and to make concrete recommendations for them;]] [[calls on the Minister to:]] [[identify pilot projects on the basis of which the Africa Task Force can make concrete recommendations;]] [[ensure that business and in particular SMEs are represented in the governance structure of the Africa Task Force;]] [[involve the Africa Task Force in the Government's European commitment to Africa;]] [[calls on the Minister to draw up an Africa strategy setting out a policy agenda for the next decade,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u177	Mr. Chairman. Finally. This is once again the last budgetary treatment, including my coalition friends, my coalition mates Bouali, Weverling and Voordewind. We've worked together really well over the past few years. I'm gonna miss you guys, but I'm gonna run into you guys somewhere else. Our nestor, thank you for your cooperation!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP. They're still here, Mrs. Kuik!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Let me begin with a general comment on the coalition amendment which seems to follow on Wings For Aid. I welcome the fact that the coalition is taking over that proposal from the SP and the VVD. Of course, I'll support that as soon as I see it coming in. I haven't seen it yet, but it's a good thing it's being taken over. Furthermore, I have three motions. I will do my best to submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hague Court stated on 9 September that an employee of the Dutch embassy in Nigeria was wrongly dismissed;]] [[noting that her resignation was due to her whistleblowers' notification of the leak of confidential information to Shell by the former Dutch ambassador, which led to benefits for this multinational;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a poor record of tackling corruption by companies abroad according to the Exporting Corruption report of Transparency International;]] [[Whereas it is unknown how many integrity violations exist due to such intertwinedness between Dutch embassies and Dutch multinationals;]] [[calls on the government to launch an independent investigation into the relationship between Dutch embassies and multinationals such as Shell, especially in countries with multinationals operating in the fossil industry, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands and other European countries were highly dependent on the production of certain essential goods, such as medical protective equipment, from one or only a few third countries;]] [[considers that, in addition to diversification of value chains, a more active European and Dutch industrial policy can remedy this type of dependency in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate strategic dependencies and vulnerabilities in the Netherlands, considering how they can be mitigated at national or European level, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35770-XVII-25]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u180	We have already briefly discussed the ongoing investigation on the basis of the Heerma/Segers motion, but that is specifically about a number of sectors. This is really about vulnerabilities and dependencies throughout the economy in the Netherlands. Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands plays an important role in the international approach to HIV and AIDS, including through the harm reduction approach to drug use;]] [[noting that the budget for "sexual and reproductive health and rights and HIV/AIDS" will decrease in the coming year;]] [[considers that the international efforts of the Netherlands to address COOVID-19 should not be at the expense of the fight against other deadly diseases;]] [[calls on the government not to cut back on HIV and AIDS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u181	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the written answers. I'm glad the minister came out of the quarantine in a healthy way. I would also like to wish Mr Amhaouch every success, because he is not here today because of illness. That is a pity in this last budget debate, and it is also a good colleague. D66 will table four motions on the subjects I spoke about earlier in the first term of this budget, namely the protection of the Amazon, the Holland Alumni network, the remittances and diversity of NGOs. We have also tabled an amendment together with colleagues to release 10 million extra for the pressing situation in which refugees are living, refugee education, children's rights in refugee camps and aid for efforts in the region. I'm going to file my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is committed to combating deforestation in the current policy;]] [[Whereas the Amazon as the Earth's lungs plays a crucial role in the fight against climate change;]] [[Whereas deforestation contributes to desertification, soil erosion and biodiversity loss;]] [[Calls on the Government to commit itself at European level to effective measures to ensure that products entering the European market are produced sustainably and without direct and indirect contributions to the deforestation of the Amazon;]] [[calls on the Government also to draw attention to the importance of implementing and holding a meeting with similar Member States in order to achieve such EU measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Holland Alumni network consisting of cooperation between international alumni, the Netherlands Alumni Associations, Dutch universities, embassies and other relevant organisations has built up a broad network since 2009;]] [[Whereas foreign students who have studied in the Netherlands are valuable ambassadors for the knowledge economy of the Netherlands and an important strengthening of our labour market;]] [[calls on the government to explore ways to maintain the Holland Alumni network,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch organisations, commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, operate in a large number of other countries and in almost all layers of these societies;]] [[believes that Dutch organisations should serve as an example of the pluralism and diversity of society;]] [[Whereas the Charter Diversity helps organisations to develop and implement effective diversity policies;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the signing of the Charter Diversity among organisations that receive grants from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and include in the progress reports of the organisations concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas migrants from low and middle income countries send money annually to their countries of origin with a combined value of more than three times the global expenditure on development cooperation;]] [[Whereas the transaction costs of these remittances are often high, which means that some migrants do not send the money or through informal channels;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how transaction costs of remittances in the Netherlands can be reduced and how access to formal financial services for migrants can be improved, and to inform the Court in spring 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include the promotion of digital financial services in developing countries in the Digital Agenda for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bouali, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-28]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Bouali. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bouali and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-30]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Bouali. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u182	Finally, Mr President. I mentioned in my first term the vulnerable position of refugee children, which has been aggravated by corona. D66 believes that education is essential for them at least, to offer children opportunities and not to let a generation be lost. We have therefore tabled an amendment together with the Christian Union, the CDA and the VVD. As I said earlier, it provides EUR 10 million for reception and protection in the region for the most vulnerable. I'm hoping for support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u183	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kirsten van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was a lot of motions. I don't have that many, even though I'm in opposition. That's special, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the United Nations announced that 40% more emergency aid is needed this year and that for the first time in 30 years extreme poverty is increasing. 270 million people are suffering from acute food shortages. That is why, together with GroenLinks and the SP, we have tabled an amendment to increase our emergency aid, which is urgently needed. Together with Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, I have tabled an amendment to reduce the amount for SRGR and HIV/AIDS at the current level. Because it's girls, women and Ihbti people who are getting hit extra hard right now. I have three motions, Mr. Chairman. The first concerns an action plan on gender-based violence. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that violence against girls and women has increased as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas girls and women are less protected, factors leading to increased violence and less opportunities for escape for girls and women, leading to a shadow pandemic;]] [[whereas the estimated additional 30 million sexual and gender-related violence offences are absolutely unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with organisations such as Amref Flying Doctors, the WHO and WWE=MEN, to come up with an action plan to protect girls and women as much as possible from sexual violence and partner violence, and to inform the Court within a timeframe appropriate to the urgent crisis in which many girls and women are living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u185	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis further limits the already shrinking space for local civil society organisations, human rights activists and social enterprises;]] [[Whereas the position of such organisations can be strengthened in particular locally by organisations operating daily in the specific context of that region;]] [[Considering that the allocation of budget for local civil society organisations can contribute to a strong civil society that can stand up for the most marginalised, including girls and women, lhbti individuals, people with disabilities and dissidents;]] [[calls on the government to allocate at least 25% of available funds to local civil society organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u186	Finally, I have a motion on Lesbos. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a humanitarian crisis in Lesbos;]] [[Whereas no vulnerable refugee has yet been admitted, as dictated the outcome of the exchange;]] [[calls on the government to reverse the exchange of vulnerable people, to include at least 500 children from Lesbos and at least as soon as possible to bring the promised 100 refugees to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van Raan, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, this is the last budget discussion for myself and for a number of others. Thank you for Mrs Kuik's kind words. I would also like to thank the Minister for his pleasant cooperation in recent years. I would also like to thank colleagues, both inside the coalition and outside the coalition. After all, we have also worked closely with the opposition. Together, we are facing the same goal, namely to support those who are in such a difficult situation. Mr. Chairman. I have heard the Minister right: she is going to see if there is any money available in the Autumn note. I see amounts of 28 million coming by. I'm not sure that's entirely available. I assume that an amount of this will have to be transferred to the next year. I would like to thank her for her willingness to look at this when it comes to the negative effects of the covid pandemic and, in particular, the poignant situation at Lesbos, which my colleague has just mentioned. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank her for the commitment to look at the Dutch aid organisations. I have just mentioned the Dutch Relief Alliance as a bundling of emergency services. I would also like to draw attention to the situation in Ethiopia, where people have been driven out of their homes. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to Nagorno-Karabakh and the Armenians who are imprisoned there. Houses, schools and hospitals have been destroyed. Would the Minister like to take a look at that, too? Mr. Chairman. Finally, two motions for resolutions which I shall shortly read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has committed itself for decades to the international UN agreement to devote 0.7% of GNI to development cooperation;]] [[calls on the government to identify, during this cabinet period, what is needed to grow to re-use 0.7% of GNI for development cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bouali and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u188	And then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister has set up a Children's Prostitution Fund 2020, but that this fund will also cease at the end of 2021;]] [[Whereas the fight against child prostitution requires a long-term commitment;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to support civil society organisations fighting child prostitution beyond 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u189	Mr Weverling on one of the motions tabled, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u190	Well, actually, about a sent tweet by Mr Voordewind today. He says: "Minister Kaag commits ChristianUnion and PvdA to release additional funds for humanitarian aid to the refugees on Lesbos within two weeks." I don't think I heard this today, so I'm asking him if he's referring to today. Or am I mistaken? What's he trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u191	That's why I don't think it's convenient that you're all sitting here with your phones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u192	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. The Minister mentioned this year's underspending. It is prepared to see if some of them can still be spent on humanitarian aid. I've heard that, but perhaps you've heard other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u193	Well, go and tweet about that, I'd say. Thank you, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u194	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u195	Good. Then I will go to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. During the notation consultation Maintaining the forest earlier this week I advocated the formulation of due diligence requirements for financial institutions. On the advice of the Minister, we have held this motion, precisely on the basis of the promise that it will be committed to this at European level in the near future. That's good, but it's also good to deal with things here in the Netherlands now. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas China and the EU intend to conclude an investment treaty in the short term;]] [[Considering China's commitment to the inclusion of an ISDS clause, which would mean that Chinese multinationals in Europe would be given far-reaching legal protection in addition to existing European legal protection;]] [[whereas this will significantly strengthen the dominant position of Chinese multinationals vis-à-vis EU Member States in, for example, the European energy and telecommunications sector;]] [[whereas Chinese multinationals are heavily controlled by the Chinese government;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear to the European Commission that the Netherlands is opposed to this Convention, inviting it to terminate negotiations on the EU-China Investment Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas women often have a weaker position in international value chains and suffer more human rights violations by companies than men;]] [[noting, for example, that this is reflected in ActionAid's report, which shows that palm oil producers in Guatemala continue to jeopardise the position of women and that the Netherlands contributes to this by importing 43% of all palm oil produced in Guatemala;]] [[Considering that the strengthening of the position of women and girls is one of the main priorities of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, but receiving little attention in the main thrust of the IMBO policy paper;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen and report to the Chamber on women's rights and gender equality in the further development of the imvo policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a few final remarks. In her written reply, the Minister acknowledges that there is a link between the reduction of biodiversity and the wildlife environment and the potential for the emergence of zoonoses, such as COOVID-19. The fact that the Minister also joins in what the Party for Animals has been telling us for years is gratifying. Mr. Chairman. This large-scale destruction of the living environment of both humans and animals is called ecocide. That's what we've been telling you for years. We therefore join the many who would like to criminalise ecocide. The fact that, according to the Minister, there is no international support seems to us to defy reality. Yesterday, for example, we saw a main editorial article in Trouw in which exactly that is stated. Countries like Vanuatu and the Maldives have been calling attention to this for years at the International Criminal Court, here in The Hague. Earlier this year, President Macron called for an international coalition to regulate the criminality of ecocide on a global scale. Belgium is working on it. If, despite these examples, she still does not see any support, then she can create it, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore high time the Netherlands responded to these urgent international calls. That is why we are voting on a motion which has been held and which calls on the Minister to carry out an inventory of ecocide. We will also vote on the motion to ban imports of deforestation products. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you. You need to pass on the numbers and the like of those held motions. Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I see you walk right past the clerk so that your motions can be numbered, copied and distributed. I now turn to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr. Chairman. I make three motions, but before that I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Given the time, I'll move on to filing my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the International Affairs Advisory Council recommended releasing EUR 1 billion for a global approach to COVID-19 without cutting the existing ODA budget;]] [[Considering that the Netherlands is releasing EUR 150 million for the global approach to COVID-19, that the reduction of the ODA budget in the short term is offset by a cash drawer of EUR 464 million, and that this represents a mortgage on the future;]] [[calls on the government to identify how and by what means the substantial cuts in the BH-OS budget for the longer term can be avoided, including the (possible) under-utilisation of the costs of first-year shelter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u201	Mr. Chairman. We think it is right to formalise the relationship between the EU and Taiwan. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that despite the one-China policy, there are intensive trade and investment relations between the EU and Taiwan and between the Netherlands and Taiwan;]] [[Whereas, in the light of geopolitical developments, many countries see a growing need for good and close relations with Taiwan;]] [[Whereas a bilateral investment agreement (BIA) between the EU and Taiwan can contribute to increased mutual investment, enhanced technological cooperation and improved investor protection;]] [[calls on the Government at EU level to make proposals for the establishment of a BIA between the EU and Taiwan and to inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u202	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the unrest in and around the Ethiopian Tigray region has serious consequences for the local population and for locally active NGOs;]] [[Calls on the Government to work to ensure the best possible continuation of regular development cooperation with Ethiopia, and to call on the Ethiopian authorities, where appropriate, to ensure safe humanitarian access in the Tigray region;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which existing emergency funds are sufficient to meet the acute humanitarian needs in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u203	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u204	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. I have to put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u205	Mr. Chairman. Global corona measures pose a huge threat to world trade, with all the consequences. It remains incomprehensible to the Democracy Forum that side-effects of the measures are not taken into account in any way in the adoption of the measures. In the Netherlands too, we remain naive about the consequences of the collapse of the economy, with many companies going bankrupt. 2 million entrepreneurs pay the price for the failing corona policy, which is still based on an outdated estimate of the mortality of the coronavirus. Unfortunately, no one wonders how it is now possible that China is corona-free again and can take over our companies uninhibited because these companies have been pushed into the abyss by our own government. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Commissioner Vestager has launched a plan to counter unfair competition from non-EU companies;]] [[calls on the government, in line with Commissioner Vestager's plan, to draw up a plan focusing on the Dutch market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u206	Mr. Chairman. Subsequently, there is no level playing field with regard to China. I do not feel that anyone here in the Chamber or in the cabinet is concerned about the Dutch business community, even though today the Minister has indicated that there is a lot of talk, both in the EU and in the Netherlands. As far as the Forum for Democracy is concerned, it is now time for action, however small. This is why a motion on the threshold for import charges of €150, which hopefully contributes a little to solving unfair competition from China. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that non-EU products with a value below €150 are not subject to import duties;]] [[noting that this has a negative impact on the competitive position of Dutch producers;]] [[whereas having a threshold amount is not necessarily bad;]] [[calls on the government to examine the optimal threshold for better balance of positive and negative effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u207	Mr. Chairman. The steel quotas and the steel bypass we are now in show the failure of the EU in optima forma. This is now threatened by the threat of a CO import tax. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the current import quota on European steel, the market has been seriously disrupted and has thereby been disproportionately affected by Dutch companies;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has tried in vain to increase the quota on wire rod steel;]] [[noting that a CO import tax on steel imports is now in the pipeline by the EU;]] [[Whereas this may lead to unfair competition because the import charge will not apply to finished products mostly made of steel;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with its European colleagues, to try to avoid any further unfair competition arising from the CO-import levy in the steel industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u208	Mr. Chairman. And then a lasting irritation over the millions we give to organizations that are going to sue with money against the government. That comes back every year, so this year too. Fortunately, I received unconditional support from Mr Weverling in the first term. So I also assume that my motion will in any case be supported by the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch taxpayers' money is used to subsidise different institutions;]] [[noting that several institutions receiving grants actively oppose democratic policies and in some cases even sue against the government that grants them;]] [[whereas freedom of expression applies to all, but subsidised activities should contribute to, or be in line with, government policy;]] [[considers that the public authorities have a duty to guarantee freedom of expression, but not to subsidise it;]] [[calls on the Government to stop subsidies to institutions actively litigating against government or otherwise opposing government policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u209	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u210	Mr Van Raan, with a question on one of the motions, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u211	We already knew that the VVD is seeing a little bit of the foundations of the rule of law. The Forum now supports this motion to withdraw subsidies in this way. But my question is actually another one; excuse for that. Did I hear Mr Van Haga from the Forum for Democracy say that there is a connection, or perhaps even that China has spread COOVID-19 as a kind of weapon against European business? Was there a connection between that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u212	You didn't hear me say that. It is just that in some countries it is being dealt with differently than in others. We are working on the most obnoxious and unprepared approach to corona, which is why we are incredibly bothering our own business. In a country like Taiwan, with 23 million inhabitants, I think they have seven dead and the economy is just going crazy. There are plenty of countries taking Sweden where they have a different approach and where the economy is just going crazy. In China, as I said in my first term, they achieved a growth rate of 5.7% in the third quarter. The overall growth rate in 2020 is positive. We're not gonna make it. That was my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u213	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u214	Then I'm glad that out of the wide range of conspiracy theories, at least this one doesn't belong to Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u215	I do not believe in any conspiracy theory, but I do believe in technical solutions and proper preparation, as well as the consideration of all data and of all collateral damage. If there is any technical theory, if I may give it to you, then it is that the collateral damage, both medically and economically, socially and culturally, is enormous and that it is many times greater than the damage we have prevented with covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u216	I see Mr. Alkaya. Not on this subject, because we have debated it extensively almost every two weeks, and there will be another corona debate. We also have the debate on the VWS budget. Mr Van Haga always participates in this. So don't do that again. You have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u217	I'm not gonna say anything about corona, Mr. Chairman. It concerns Mr Van Haga's motion. Does his motion on stopping subsidies or no longer subsidising organisations who then take action or sue against the government, also for companies? So should companies in the fossil industry not also be allowed to say anything to cabinet policy? Can VNO-NCW no longer publish against the cabinet, according to your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u218	Good question. In principle, I am opposed to any form of subsidy, because it distorts the market. So if you didn't already, you wouldn't have that problem. But if you do apply for a grant as a company and are being harassed by the government, then you can challenge it for your own good. That's not a problem. I'm talking about NGOs getting money to do something good and then using that money to sue the same government. I reject that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u219	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u220	I note that it is only about civil society organisations and that Mr Van Haga still allows companies to get money from the government and still have all the freedom, but not civil society organisations. That's a little unfair, but it's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u221	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u222	I note that Mr Alkaya is not listening. In principle, no one should receive such subsidies. But if you are affected in your interest, then of course you have the absolute freedom to do something about it. If an NGO is expropriated, perhaps it has a piece of land that is expropriated by the State, then they can of course sue about it. But they shouldn't get grant money to do something good and then go to court against the government about something else. That is, I think, perfectly clear. But we will not agree on this front. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u223	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-4.u224	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. We're gonna suspend for half an hour. Is that enough for you? Yeah? Fine.
