ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u1	In accordance with the Court's decision earlier today on the procedural proposal, a fourth deadline is now being discussed on the Environmental Law Introduction Act. I would like to inform the Chamber and the Minister that there is a registration for about 45 minutes. There will be any interruptions. At the end of this, I will ask the Minister whether she wishes to respond immediately or whether she needs time to prepare her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr President. For our group, the ILT report and the second letter from the Minister have not brought up any new facts that call into question the structure of the law itself. It confirms for us the need for proper implementation of the law and sufficient knowledge of it in the executive bodies, as promised by the Minister by maintaining the transition and aftercare teams. In our opinion, the implementation itself is also made easier by the reduced complexity of the Environmental Act and the integrated approach versus the fragmented approach in the past. So we have enough information for the vote at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. I call Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The investigation of the Inspection Environment &amp; Transport 2012-2017 and the............................................................................................................................................................................ The limited preparation time we've had now doesn't make that possible. In the debate on the Environment Act, we discussed with the Minister the relationship between the enormous challenges that lie in the area of climate, housing and nitrogen, and the role and scope of the municipalities, provinces and waterboards. For the Empire there is room for pre-direction, state rules, or for instructional rules; or afterwards, if the task is not met, or if at the time of realization I take as an example new homes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this search, it is essential for the PvdA to follow national rules. According to my group, the Inspectorate for the Environment and Transport has carried out a thorough and large-scale study, with some tough conclusions for the group: national spatial interests are getting in the way; the system does not work itself, with risks in terms of safety, health, finance and economy, culture and nature; and confidence in institutions. Well, what do you have left when you're talking about spatial planning? There are parties in this Chamber who say they expected it. For the PvdA group, that is different. We assume that local directors and water boards will abide by national rules, now and after the introduction of the Environment Act, should it ever come into force. And the PvdA puzzles with the question: how is it then and how is it that local authorities do not comply with the state rules? The Inspection Environment and Transport says that the causes lie among other things in the area of: the complex legislation and regulation; regulation that is not sufficiently explored; that many mistakes are made and who then oversees them; different interests and roles, which means that state rules are not complied with or continue to function. Some of these issues are addressed by the Minister in her letter. I would ask her, in her reply, to finish off all the elements. And the key question that is relevant to my group: is it the case that the Environment Act makes matters better or worse when you talk about the issues mentioned? Is the scope for local authorities now helping to improve matters in these areas? That is the question that is at the heart of this fourth term, which hopefully clarifies it. In substance, the Minister's letter, particularly in the annex, gives a clear indication of where the issues dealt with in the reports, with the recommendations made. I am therefore leaving that substantive piece behind for this debate, because we have not had the time to check it all and see what we think of it. The PvdA Group has a number of questions by process. When did the government take note of this report? So what's the way to practice? What is the way to politics? How is it that this report has not been actively sent to this Chamber with a substantive response? What is the frequency at which local authorities are normally monitored in a zoning plan, or the province in its regulation, to comply with the state rules? And how do municipalities and provinces react if it turns out that they do not comply with the national standards? I am particularly interested in the issue of role-conception. Is it clear to them that there can be no deviation from state rules, or do they see it as something of "pass and explain"? And then the bridge to the Surroundings Act. Is there a risk that, for example, the room for the dowry will give the impression to local authorities that there is "application or explanation," rather than state rules and rules of instruction of the province that cannot be deviated from in other areas, or limit values that cannot be exceeded? How does the Minister see this in relation to the report that is now before us and the previous debate that has taken place? And in the report, it's also about supervision. The Minister writes in her letter that there is a strategic agenda for the future of supervision. My group believes that discussing the report with a co-government is a lean answer in the letter. Has the inspection report not shown that supervision is not adequate? Why should this improve with the introduction of the Environment Act, and a strategic agenda is not a slim answer to the seriousness of not following state rules, we ask the Minister. The Minister states in her letter that steps have been taken regarding cooperation between environmental services and the more independent authorisation, supervision and enforcement, sometimes referred to as the "vth tasks." Can the Minister, in anticipation of the written information, indicate what this is about and what will result in the shortcomings raised in the report no longer being addressed? In any case, these are the questions that my group was able to raise in the short term. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We spent two days debating this bill intensively. We then received a letter from the Minister, just one day before the vote, listing the commitments she has made. In order to be able to test them against the debates, 50PLUS asked for a postponement of the vote last week in the interests of careful consideration. My group attaches great importance to the following specific commitments: the guarantee that full operation and accessibility for all of the DSO will be ready before entry into force; the launch of a national information campaign, so that citizens are aware of the coming and content of the Environment Act; that municipalities in need of it will receive at least one year's support from regional teams, at the expense of the Empire; and the inclusion of a duty of motivation, which requires public authorities to indicate to what extent participation policies have been met. My group regrets that the report published by nrc.next by the Inspectorate for Environment and Transport has not been able to form part of the treatment at first instance. In the meantime, we have taken note of the letter from the Minister this morning, in which she goes into the report in more detail. 50PLUS has the following questions in response to this letter. On page 2, the Minister states that the report of the ILT became public yesterday. Can my group deduce from this that this report was never intended to be made public? The Minister then says that she will discuss this report with the co-governments. This report covers the period 2012-2017. Why only now discuss the results with the co-governments, I ask the Minister. The Minister acknowledges that local authorities are not always familiar with the rules in force at present, which may affect the security of citizens. Where does the Minister base the expectation that by merging and transposing countless rules with the introduction of the Environmental Law, there will actually be an increase in awareness of the regulation among municipalities and provinces? Can the Minister explain once again how this more robust knowledge infrastructure is being implemented in practice, thus having the intended effect of providing adequate protection for citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u8	Thank you. I call Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. I have great hesitation about standing here, but I realized I'm not just here on my own. I am standing here on behalf of the citizens of the Netherlands, so I am going to do my best, just as Mrs Nooren has just done. I do give it a big, fat disclaimer, because I was listening to the debate on sound, I was preparing the second term for the debate on soil and there was also the IWO committee. It's not easy to do it carefully. I do not rule out asking questions that belong in the House of Representatives. The reason for this is that my colleagues across the street have asked questions, but I have not had time to look at them or assess them. We have therefore asked from GroenLinks to do this next week. I'll walk you through the letter. Thank you for this. I think it'll give you an overview. Among other things, the Minister writes that there will be specific areas of attention. It is about life-threatening consequences for people in buildings, so group risk in external security. That is where specific areas of attention come in. This makes dealing with those group risks tangible and ensures that this interest is directly taken into account in the planning process. In addition, there will be a register of external security. This is built into the development phase of the DSO. When will this be done? Then the Minister writes that a lot of things are getting clear, because there is much more clearly defined. Now we have already exchanged a lot of wordings during the debate, and the discussion is whether things are clearly defined. I have just asked a colleague to look up an example. He had a nice example: the process must take account of the interaction between land and sea. That seems quite difficult to do; with me the solution with the Environment Act is not immediately in sight. The Minister continues: in addition to the legal system, the implementation of supervision and enforcement is of great importance. Monitoring shall consist of inter-administrative supervision of the performance of tasks by co-governments and the functioning of the system of VTH. This report is, of course, part of that. What is the Minister's view of this? Here we see a concrete example of a report produced by official organizations to inform the Minister and the Chambers, but which did not reach us at a time when it should have been here. So how does this inter-administrative supervision work? And does that work well? You also write that you are going to discuss the report that became public yesterday with the fellow governments. That is very nice and I am pleased, but shouldn't that have happened already in 2018, when this report was delivered and it was known to your ministry as well as to the ILT? I see the Minister nodding. Wasn't it? I'd like to hear about it. I'm going to the last pages of the letter. In it you write that you have taken a number of measures in response to a signal report that you have offered to the House of Representatives, but which we have not been able to look at here. I couldn't do that. You do indicate that this implementation agenda will be shared with the House of Representatives for the summer of 2020. Can this also be shared with us for the royal decision? I think this might be the same report we asked for earlier, but I'm not quite sure about that. More specifically, the debate is still ongoing, but I am still asking for it. With regard to the table defence and military aerodromes, you indicate that there will be a change track. What the hell is that supposed to mean? Perhaps that is in the answer during the debate on sound; I would like to hear it. How's that change track gonna get a place? The same applies to regional airports. This is added by means of a change track; the system changes. I'd like an explanation of that. Does that happen today, during the debate, or can we expect it to happen later? Finally, groundwork water protection areas. The drinking water companies have asked for a mandatory operation to be introduced, so that municipalities could take over more easily. It is not quite clear to me whether or not this has been given a place. It sounds like it is in the provincial decree, but I'd like to get a confirmation from the minister. Then there are a few procedural questions. I find it very painful that this report should be on the table at the last minute. I imagine that's true for both of us. I think this is a subject for our Chamber, because it is also a question of whether information available in the organisations is being brought up and whether officials are not forced to go to the newspaper to get a report on the table of the right politicians. My question is whether the Minister would like to reflect on that. How does she judge it? Would she have wanted this report on her own? But maybe the minister had it, too. Finally. You get a little suspicious: perhaps more analyses have been made that focus on the transmission of national interests at municipal and provincial level. Would the Minister like to put a question to organisations, for example at the Ministry of LNV, the Ministry of EZK or perhaps also the VNG and the IPO? I can imagine that we may not have seen it yet either. Can we receive it then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u10	It has just been said that this report has been leaked by officials. I don't have that information at my disposal. Can you explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u11	It's a good thing you're asking for it, because it's wobbled by the NRC. So maybe it didn't leak. But if you wobt, you have to ask quite specifically, so I assume there were signs that this report was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u12	If you accept that, I'm glad you have evidence for that. Otherwise, I think it would be wise to leave that open, because there is a suggestion going from it to the officials I find uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u13	Yeah, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u14	Thank you. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. In between I tried to read and write something down and then make the scribbles full sentences. I'm just gonna try. This ILT report is a summary. Then it may be said that it was known before, but it was not in this Chamber. This room is new. The signals over the period 2012-2017 should simply have come to this Chamber in a proactive form. It could have been a perfect counterpart to the "pink clouds and jumping bunnies" approach we have had so far. I see it as a lack of transparency, but also as a lack of administrative sensitivity, that the proactive attitude has been lacking in this. I saw the Minister nodding the question if she had the report. My question is whether the report was officially known, whether it was discussed in any consultation and whether it was chosen not to bring it to the attention of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u16	Mr. Chairman. I wasn't surprised by this report. I was not surprised, because drivers who walk a little longer, especially in these domains, are often confronted with this. It's as simple as that. We sometimes see things come across here that we think: how is it possible? From my eight years ago, I must say that we will pass things by. Unfortunately, it was the day when we ran into cases that were simply not properly planned. Then you have to solve all the problems on the spot. There is a lack of coherence. But that also means that these kinds of signals need to be picked up more quickly. Inter-administrative supervision is then a poachy way, with those seven or eight steps that it knows before you get to anything at all. You'll be late. So my question is how to speed this up. Inter-administrative supervision sounds nice, but it's a very poachy, slow way to intervene in business. The Minister states that five lines of action were agreed at the end of 2018 and that she will now discuss the report with the co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u17	My group was surprised that if they read such a report, people would say: yes, we would have expected this. It doesn't matter what debate we have on the Environment Act, because there are national rules and rules of instruction. The legislator then puts all things into a system to make things run as intended. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, as I understand from the debate, attaches great importance to national rules. I am surprised that the House says here: yes, we would have expected fellow governments not to abide by rich rules. My group does not understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u18	Perhaps that's because Mrs Nooren says something different than what I said. I didn't say, "I didn't expect them to follow the rules." I said that I am not surprised that the ILT comes to these conclusions because I have encountered them in practice. That is different from the fact that I do not expect every government layer to comply with the rules, as we agreed with each other and abide by the laws and regulations, as they must be implemented. But unfortunately, the practice is different. That's why I talked about the pink clouds and the jumping bunnies. The practice is different from what we agreed on. The starting point must always be that every state layer, just every state layer, that is what we expect from citizens too, must comply with laws and regulations and simply carry out what needs to be done. That may be the opposite of what the Prime Minister says, but I can't fake that I don't have a memory of things I do have a memory of. So if this is my practice experience, I can't get rid of it. Then I can start to be very surprised, but I recognize these signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u19	Can Mr Janssen as a former director, not as a co-legislator, then answer this question for purity? My question is, given the Environment Act and knowing what the practice is, what makes the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u20	I'm trying with the Environment Act to close those holes I've seen in practice. I don't think the Environment Act is clear in that respect. That's why I'm so against making black and white. That black and white, which we have clear with laws and rules and which we have got black and white with case law, is being turned grey again, and that is why I am so opposed to it. The interim monitoring signals from the ILT. Are they discussed in any consultation in the official context? The ILT emits these kinds of monitoring signals. Is that also being discussed by the public authorities? If the Minister hears all this, what does that mean for one of the corks on which the Environment Act is based, namely confidence? There is a broader problem underneath, namely in culture. Governments must also dare to address each other. Is that one of the points the Minister wants to address? The Minister writes in her letter that the current legislation "the ILT" says that "the ILT" is sometimes perceived as complicated. I haven't met anyone who could read that Environment Act so easily. Is it gonna be so much simpler now? I'm just hearing from people that if they wanted to start a bakery or butcher shop in the past, they'd have a small, thin booklet that said what they had to stick to. That was nice and neat. That was easy, but now you have to ask for help somewhere, because you have to know where to be in the AMvBs. You need to start participation. That is all well and good, but it is not the case that it has become easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. I haven't met those people yet. The Minister also writes that she is committed to a more independent implementation of VTH. That's my last question. Can it indicate where, in its view, the implementation of the VTH tasks is not independent at the moment and where it sees improvement and with what measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u21	Thank you. Mrs Klip-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the letter she sent yesterday and for the letter she sent today. I am now responding to Mr Janssen. I do not think we can say that the texts of the Environment Act are all immediately attractive, but we do believe that the Environment Act makes the regulation simpler and more unambiguous, is better to find and thus facilitates better compliance. My group does not share Mr Janssen's metaphor of turning black and white into grey. In our opinion, the Environment Act responds to a large number of the problems identified, because the problems identified in the report date from before the introduction of the Environment Act, because that is what we are talking about today. In addition, the Minister has taken clear action on the problems identified, in particular in the implementation of the VTH tasks: a strategic agenda with co-governments, an independent committee to improve the VTH system and a stronger knowledge structure. That's all very procedural. We have confidence in it, but I would like to hear again from the Minister that this leads to real action. Municipalities can handle a lot, but they can't do it alone at first. In particular, support with knowledge, alongside the other two, is essential. I have said this many times when we talk about this issue. We call on the Minister to explicitly pay more attention to the whole of the knowledge pathway, especially with regard to the VTH tasks. I quote one of our former colleagues, Mr Rinnooy Kan. He once said, not as a senator: who thinks knowledge is expensive, doesn't know how much stupidity costs. I think this certainly applies to the Environment Act as well. As far as we are concerned, knowledge is a thick thread over the years to come. In conclusion, even after the publications in NRC, our vision of the Introduction Act has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u23	Thank you. Mr Rietkerk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for today's letter. It gives a better insight than yesterday's. In the first instance, the message in NRC yesterday and in Home Office today scares you, especially with the fireworks disaster in Enschede in my mind. Maybe I'll get a little mad, too. However, after deepening and thinking, I note that the signals in the media relate to problems of the current system, observed in 2012 to 2017. I have already said that a continuous improvement from then on to now and to the future remains necessary as far as we are concerned. The Environment Act responds to the signals on a number of points, contributes to better compliance with the rules through better awareness of the rules, more unambiguous wording and the addition of instructional rules to national interests. And that is crucial, for example, when deciding on the quality of the environment. This requires clarity and definition of national Spatial Interests, and this is necessary. Otherwise, you can draw up instructions, but first, Parliament and legislator have to formulate national interests. Then you can go through with it as a kingdom and go through with it as a province. The current legislation is also considered complicated by municipalities, provinces and water boards. That's kind of what you read back in that report. In my opinion, the wordings in the new system are simpler and more uniform. However, two examples set out in the Annex: storage of explosive substances for civil use from 2012, in the new legislation, as well as external safety devices. In addition to the legal system, the CDA considers implementation, monitoring and enforcement to be very important. With the minister, the professionals deserve support, we find. That remains essential. Finally, the CDA asks how the recommendations on ensuring knowledge sharing at the top regional and national levels will be followed up and how the Minister ensures a more robust knowledge infrastructure and knowledge exchange in relation to new developments. For the sake of clarity, I agree with the questions put by the groups of the VVD and 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u25	Thank you. I should like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SGP recognised itself particularly well in the final paragraphs of the Minister's last letter concerning the contested NRC article: Good implementation of the rules and the safeguarding of national interests continue to call for constant attention from all parties in the coming years. In other words, we're not here yet, we're in a process. That is, I think, also sung in all sorts of keys during our extensive debate. The ILT report makes another big deal of that. It is not obvious from the report that all national interests are protected and that citizens are adequately protected. In particular, let the report be an additional encouragement to the Minister to examine with the public authorities whether the system is working properly or whether improvements are needed to ensure proper implementation. My main question follows from this: how will the Minister ensure that the municipalities and provinces are able to play their role properly? After all, the Environment Act gives more room to deviate from national rules and also gives more room for more global environmental plans rather than more detailed planning plans. If, in current practice, it is already difficult to include certain safety zones in zoning plans, for example, how will the Minister, under the Environment Act, ensure that basic safety rules do not go under the radar? I would like to hear a further explanation from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I should like to give the floor to Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Our group does not feel fully taken seriously. From the beginning, we've been looking at the Environment Act with all the technical knowledge we have in the house. We have complained about the careless answer of questions. Other groups complained about this too. Now this report comes up in one go. That, and also the information contained in it, should have been given much earlier. I agree with GroenLinks and with the SP in this regard. I can hardly escape the impression that it seems that the Minister and the government parties, who are supported by the Forum for Democracy, who would have thought that? It is a race which has been won in advance and which has lost sight of the care that we have to exercise. Mr. Chairman. It's really about a very serious issue. All political groups are very concerned about whether the municipalities can handle it. I really mean I can say that. Whether you call it decentralisation or not, there will be a package of work anyway. To all the concerns was the answer of this minister "it comes well, the municipalities can handle it, believe us," even though a large part of the municipalities have indicated that they are not really ready for it yet. That's what the minister who has an ILT report we're talking about today says. That report shows that the safeguarding of national interests is not going well. In her response this morning, the Minister only addresses the various cases that have been investigated, and in the annex she tries to convince us that there will be improvements on these issues. It is also about the position of the ILT. Other groups have already addressed these questions. Mr. Chairman. Another question is important to us. For the discussion on the Environment Act, which we are now discussing again in this fourth term, another observation in the report is important, namely the analysis of why the problems arise. And what does it turn out to be? The rules to be applied are perceived as too complicated and municipalities do not feel sufficiently equipped. I saw that on page 4, on page 5, on page 11 and on page 12. If that is true for a small part of the national rules that had to be implemented under the old system, the current system, what about being set up when hundreds of national rules and instructions are fired on municipal authorities through the environmental law system that they all have to apply? On the one hand, how can the Minister maintain that municipalities will be able to handle it easily, if at the same time there is a report in the drawer showing that, if only part of the national rules are applied at the moment, municipalities are already stuck? A report the Minister has kept silent about. In this morning's letter, the Minister talks about better transparency and transparency of the regulation. Mr Rietkerk was just talking about this. I've been teaching board law students for 40 years. I've worked as an administrative lawyer for 30 years. I haven't seen a law as complicated as this law in my entire practice. That's what I'm saying from my professional point of view. You can either do it or you can't, but it's a situation that we're very concerned about. In the article in the Dutch Lawyers magazine in which top lawyers ask us to vote against this monstrum, it is already clearly stated that it is only about combining rules. Of course, there is a bit of simplification here and there, if you come across the same kind of rule in three different regulations and you're going to put it together. But it's about combining rules. It's not about changing rules. What I am saying here must also be true, because it has always been stated that everything is politically neutral. Those top lawyers warned that the complexity of the system is only increasing for those who have to apply it. It is just as different from what Mr Janssen said with the example of the baker. Because also for experts, professionals and top lawyers, spatial planning law and environmental law are intertwined. That just makes it more complicated. You can also find this in the piece in the Dutch Juristenblad. Mr. Chairman. Smaller municipalities wrestle. I quoted in the debate a response from one of those municipalities. I've turned to that congregation because I don't trust the information we've gotten in that area. I quote again: 'We are very concerned about the technical, legal and financial feasibility. The big problem is that we are expected to implement the biggest legislative change without additional resources." That's such a small town. He's gonna have to fix it all later. This concern is shared by our group and by many other groups, and the ILT report reinforces that concern. But the Minister has denied us the conclusions of that report. Even last night, the minister didn't send the report. Mr President, my questions. Why didn't the Minister send the report with her letter from last night? I really don't feel taken seriously. Second question. Does the Minister consider it relevant that municipalities are apparently not already sufficiently equipped to implement some of the national rules they must apply? Third question. Does the Minister consider it careful that, on the one hand, it states that municipalities can handle the application of the Environmental Law, including the treatment of the dowry, 400 articles or more, while, on the other hand, the ILT report, "A report" which we have just received today by looking up the dowry itself, shows that municipalities already have great difficulty in applying part of the state rules? Finally, the question... I would like to ask that again; I have the feeling that many groups attach importance to this. Is the Minister prepared to explicitly examine how many municipalities do not consider themselves sufficiently equipped for the implementation of the rule mass that the Environment Act puts on their plate and to inform the Chamber well before deciding on "go/no go"? That last question, I think, is essential for many groups. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. The well-known report gives a number of spicy questions. Even when you say it was known to us, it's always painful when you read this kind of conclusions. If you ask the question what this means for the Environment Act, then different frames are possible. But I dare say that the content of this report supports the idea that the Environment Act could help us. Why? I think that in the letter the Minister gives a number of examples in which the Environment Act makes the situation easier than the current one. I am also pleased that page 2 of the letter states that five lines of action are actually agreed upon in the context of inter-administrative supervision. And all lines of action are lines that are about culture. Mr President, that brings me to a very important point for me. In my opinion, the ILT report is not a structural story, but a cultural story. In all my contributions to this dossier, I have always stressed the importance of culture. I also asked the Minister to give this very explicit attention. I think this report reminds us once again how important culture is. We can change structures, but if the political-democratic culture in the government doesn't change, we won't move forward. The Minister therefore agrees that she will also discuss this report with the co-governments. I have asked in my contribution around bottom to engage in that conversation with the fellow governments also from that report Low thresholds, high dikes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u31	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u32	Yes, I do. That conversation must really be about political-democratic culture. I would like the Minister to be able to make a very explicit commitment to this. My last sentence is: the Environment Act is a process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u33	Thank you. The last speaker during this period is Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u34	Mr. Chairman. I have noticed in the past period that my contribution of 28 January on the unsavoury Environment Act has loosened quite a bit. I got a lot of support from several people who had seen my contribution in the first term on the internet or on the Facebook site of GO, and like GO wondering: what is the Upper Chamber doing? For what problem is this the solution? As we know, I was a lawyer for a while. Especially from a legal point of view I received many comments and e-mails from people who had seen my contribution and fully joined the questions of GO. Mr Nicolaï has already pointed it out. GO is against this Environmental Law and remains so. The leaked ILT report doesn't change that for us. I think it would have been political, courtesy if the Minister had also sent the report directly to the First Chamber, instead of sending us a letter stating that she did not recognize herself in the image outlined by NRC Handelsblad. This Environment Act facilitates an acceleration of the energy transition. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has therefore been extremely surprised that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) facilitates and facilitates the transition of the Environment Act, so that the Netherlands can be built even faster with windmills and solar fields, and is an ICT fiasco in the making. Apparently, Forum's urge to join the party cartel and join in North Brabant is so great, and the job hunger is so huge, that the fraction of FvD really jumps through all the hoops that VVD and CDA present for FvD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u35	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u36	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I have explained in detail in my previous term why GO considers the Environment Act to be a bad plan. We still think so. We will therefore vote against the law in the roll-call vote tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u37	Thank you. I understand the Minister needs some time to sort out the answers. I shall therefore suspend the sitting until 4.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u38	I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u39	Thank you, Mr President. The report in the NRC on the ILT's report on the safeguarding of national spatial interests has given rise to concern. I understand very well that you would like to have the debate with me on this. You have concerns about whether the spatial interests are well protected and whether municipalities know what to do and whether they are properly implementing the regulations. Before I go into the specific questions, I would like to take you into the next question that I actually heard coming back to you all. What exactly happened? I do attach myself to that, because the question here in your Chamber has also outlined a number of images which I do not always recognize. What I do recognize is the desire to have the report sent with the first letter last night. Sorry about that. I know it's always a point if you have to look for information yourself again. It had already been published, but it would have been good to send the report immediately. Then I'll go over the improvements to the Environment Act. Is the Environment Act in this imperfect world in which we live clearly the reporting of the ILT shows that things are not going the way we want them to or not? I have some answers to that. I will tell you immediately: there is no system that guarantees that nothing will ever go wrong anywhere. After that, I will go into the question of what supervision looks like. Mr. Chairman. Let's start with the ILT report. The article in the NRC states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has held back a report. Qualifications were added as "have had in the drawer" or "have kept behind." If there is one person here in the Chamber who would very much have liked this report to have been involved in the handling of the Environment Act last week, it certainly stands here behind the microphone. And you may be equal, but at least let me say that to the same extent. Of course, I have no interest in this report coming up at once just before the votes. I am glad, however, that I am still able to discuss some of the concerns with you before the votes. I'd like to give you a description of how it went. In March 2018, the Inspection Environment and Transport sent a draft annual report for an official check on inaccuracies to several departments, including the Ministry of BZK. The draft annual report referred to a report on the safeguarding of national spatial interests. That report was an internal report that was not presented to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the basis of the passage in the draft annual report, BZK asked substantive questions. At that time, the ILT independently decided to adapt the information contained in the internal reporting in the annual report. That's what you read in the letter. So the ILT itself decided to adjust the reference to the report in the annual report. So it wasn't offered to the Ministry. So I don't recognize myself in the image that some kind of pressure has been exerted. I will tell you that yesterday morning I also called the inspector-general directly, because I didn't just want that signal out of the official line; I just wanted to hear it from him myself. It's not someone we can accuse of weak knees, I can tell you. He told me he didn't recognize himself in the picture at all. Some of you have outlined how important it is for people to be able to do their jobs and how important it is for careful policy-making that any critical notes come forward early. This is also extremely important for a ministry, because then you can think about what to do with it. I will come back to the way in which monitoring signals are used in detail. The internal report on the safeguarding of national spatial interests, which we now know as "the report," is a bundling of signals that have largely been shared with the House of Representatives as supervisory signals. I will come back to that, too, but yes, it is crucial to discuss it. It is very often also a way for a ministry to stay in front of policy-making. It's very nice to have signals from the field early. Then you can think about what you can do with that. I will also mention a few examples later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u40	Mrs. Nooren has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u41	I haven't been able to prepare enough. We've talked enough about that. So this is a very large investigation report from the inspection. You say that you consider this large-scale investigation to be an internal report. Then I'm thinking, "Who for?" In other sectors, this type of large sector reporting is always offered to the Minister. Then I think: Who does such an inspection do it for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u42	That is a question we may have to ask the ILT again: why did they decide not to do so? I can only observe that it did not happen as a collection report. What has happened is that the various investigations have been offered as partial signals in other places. So it wasn't offered as a collection report. I would like to ask the ILT what the consideration was for that. I can only observe that it did not happen and because it did not happen, it could not have been presented to your Chamber as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u43	Just as sharp: who was the sponsor of this large-scale research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u44	That, I think, has been an initiative of the ILT. It was not commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. BZK read and asked about this in a draft annual report, but it was also an initiative of the ILT. It has also been its initiative to treat it as internal reporting, as far as the sum sum, the whole, the bundling was concerned. The partial reports did come back in the alerts. That's how the ILT indicated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u45	So I understand that it is not customary in the spatial domain to share it with the Minister when systematic analyses are carried out by the inspection? That is my conclusion from your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u46	No, it's about the bundling. The various substantive signals are indeed shared as a signal. It was not chosen to offer these bundled again separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u47	Sorry, Chairman, one more time. It was a report with a predecessor with generalistic conclusions. I have also put a number of questions to the Minister. Then I really don't understand for whom someone who does this research then writes the conclusions. Isn't that what you're addressing to someone? I'm really lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u48	As I mentioned earlier, I would like to ask the ILT about the consideration it has made on this point. It's a trade-off that was independently made by the ILT and not by me or the Ministry. It therefore seems complicated to me to speculate why that would have happened. I'd be happy to ask that question. I can only observe that it did not happen and, because it did not happen, the report could not lie with your Chamber as a bundled report. Of course, the individual monitoring signals, as I indicated in the letter, have been examined and dealt with. So that information is ultimately involved in the preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u49	Let's get to this point. Look, formally offering a report is one. I know that from reports. But: has this report been discussed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or has it remained entirely internal with the ILT? Didn't it leave the building?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u50	As far as I have been able to retrieve from the email changes that have been there, there has been an email exchange about the passage in the draft annual report, but not about the report itself. That is the information I have at my disposal. Colleague Knops has just indicated in the Lower House that we would like to share the email exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u51	Let's talk about that passage, because that'll integrate me. There has been a passage, namely that the investigation has been carried out. That has been said by the BZK: but that report has not been presented, so it is strange if there is a reference to the annual report. But I am curious to see to what extent that passage in the annual report has been amended, because that is something other than simply 'there was no reference, because the report is not offered'. Apparently, there has been a change in content. Or does the Minister say: no, this was the text already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u52	It might be good to stick to the statement that the inspection itself put out on that subject. That's the party that's talking about this report. No pressure has been experienced by the ILT from BZK or other departments not to publish the document or to modify the annual report. The decision not to publish the document as an independent report but to include the conclusion in the annual report was taken by the ILT itself. The reason for this is that most underlying signals and reports had been offered and/or published before. In the annual report 2018, the document has been briefly appointed as usual. It is customary to submit an annual report to interested parties prior to publication for a check on factual inaccuracies. This is what the ILT itself says about it. That is also what I told you yesterday in the letter on this subject. The ILT therefore made a trade-off. I have just told Mrs Nooren that I am quite prepared to ask the ILT for further information on this consideration. I can only conclude that that was the balance at the time and that it was therefore not a matter for the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u53	That's clear. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u54	Here's the thing. I don't care about the pressure. I'm gonna leave that point for a while. It matters to me that there's a report. If you don't want to refer to a report that others don't know, you leave that reference out. Here it was only chosen for the substantive conclusion that it is all okay, in my own words. You'd rather expect no reference to come in at all, otherwise I don't get it. If the report is not known by others, you refer to it or not. I am curious about the original text, because apparently something has changed in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u55	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u56	The question is what has been changed in the text. If the Ministry was offered to see if there were any inaccuracies in it, it was also assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u57	That is why we need to distinguish between the substantive report that has been presented and the annual report that has been presented for a factual check. The annual report is offered for a factual check. Questions were then asked about it, after which the text in the annual report was amended by the ILT. The ILT itself says about this: unfortunately, an amended text was subsequently published in the annual report, but it does not reflect the conclusions correctly. That's what the ILT says. Then she says: in a later publication, i.e. in the ILT-wide risk analysis, IBRA, a correct summary is included. The ILT says that we have amended our text in the annual report itself and indicate ourselves to find an unfortunate summary of it. It was then corrected, because the proper summary was shared with the Chambers, in the IBRA. Those conclusions were drawn at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u58	If I understand correctly, the civil servants at BZK did not see the underlying report on that annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u59	Yeah, that's how I figured it out. Once again, my colleague Knops has just said in the House of Representatives that he is prepared to share the e-mails with the Chamber. Then you can see for yourself what's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u60	The main point is that the annual report has been adapted from insufficient to sufficient. I might say that a little short, but it says 'insufficient' and 'in the annual report, something that was not entirely in line with that'. The officials of the Ministry were working on the Environment Act, which is about making national policies in a good place, so decentralised what can and should be central. They read these conclusions in the annual report. Why didn't they request the underlying report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u61	Questions have been asked about this passage in the annual report. On the basis of the questions, the ILT decided to amend the text in the annual report. She herself states that that was actually an unfortunate summary. Again, in bundled form, the report has never been presented, but the partial conclusions are simply offered. The full text is also included in IBRA. That information was not lost in the preparation of the Environment Act. I will come back to that later, because the question is whether the Environment Act is helping or not. Of course, we want to know whether a good follow-up has been given to the core of the concerns that have emerged in this report, where they have been shared with the Chamber and the Ministry on an individual basis. I have tried to outline the answer to this in the letter, namely that we have looked at the substantive signals. In addition, the complete summary, which, according to the ILT, was correct, is simply shared in the IBRA. So there is an unfortunate passage in the annual report, but the happy summary, so to speak, has not been missed. It was only in another document, which is also involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u62	I repeat that I am surprised that the officials of the Ministry or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not ask me about persons who are responsible for the underlying reporting. There's a meta-report that puts a prick through all sub-examinations, where worrying signals come out. We can see that in the draft annual report. Why has it not been ensured in the official organisation or the ministry that that report was available and that it was shared with the minister? That is the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u63	Mrs Kluit, I hear a conclusion and not a question. An interruption is a short question. It's up to you. I hear you making an argument now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u64	Why wasn't they asked for it? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u65	A number of questions have been asked. Then the ILT decided to consider this bundled signal as internal reporting. They have adapted a passage in the annual report accordingly. That has been an independent consideration of the ILT. It also indicates that this was actually an unfortunate summary because part of it had disappeared. What is at stake, of course, is whether or not the content of the criticism has been involved in the development of the system in recent years. Yes, he is involved, because all these substantive signals and monitoring signals are simply shared with the Ministry and the Chamber. Action has also been taken on this. The bundling as such is considered internal reporting by the ILT and therefore did not end up with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u66	We are standing here today discussing the Implementation Act of the Environment Act with the Minister. I hear the Minister referring to commitments from another minister that e-mails may still be available. In my speech just now, I have raised the fears and concerns of the local authorities. From the document in the NRC I deduce that one of the reasons for putting it in the drawer, I shall say, was that there should not be another reason for doubting whether municipalities could cope with the new environmental law system. Now I come to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u67	No, I have a question. What interest would the ILT have in this? The ILT has decided that it is an internal report. Mr Nicolaï now suggests that the ILT has had an interest in not sending out this report as a bundled signal because of a possible involvement in the debate on the Environment Act. That seems far-fetched to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u68	I'm not suggesting the ILT did. I'm gonna go to the play at the NRC. We talked about whether there were leaks, yes or no. The report isn't a leak, it's just a WOB request. There are only internal documents. I quote: if a draft of the annual report lands at Home Affairs, so not at ILT, there will still be a conflict. This is evident from an internal document available to the NRC journalist. Senior BZK officials inform the inspection that they did not request the report. Publication is not on the agenda. With the critical conclusion, BZK "does not agree."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u69	Mr. Nicolaï...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u70	Mr President, my question is: how can we end this debate today if we do not have the e-mail exchange that has apparently been promised in the House of Representatives? This e-mail exchange may indeed show that BZK was also concerned about under-equipped municipalities in relation to the Environment Act. That's my question. Can we have that e-mail exchange before we vote later? Does the Minister know more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u71	I can see what can be done. The question has been asked whether additional questions have been asked as a result of that passage. Yes. The conclusion of the ILT was: we modify the passage. That is the conclusion that has been reached. The ILT itself has also indicated: we think we have an unfortunate summary of that passage, but it is not that the information could have been involved in the whole treatment. In IBRA, so in another place, it has been published. Not in this piece, but in another place. There has been no lack of information and no information has been withheld. No signals have been tracked either. I also made it clear in the letter what has been done with the various signals. It just hasn't been on that spot in the annual report, but the information was just there and it's just been involved. They were all public documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u72	Finally. I am not talking about the annual report, I am talking about the exchange of e-mails where possible, but it shows that there were concerns in the Home Office about whether the system of the Environment Act could be implemented, as it had already been shown that municipalities with the state rules, to name but a few, could not get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u73	You and several members of the Chamber have questions about this. Then this is the place to ask those questions to me. So whether officials have any questions about this among themselves is not relevant to the assessment we are making here. For what we are saying here, it is relevant whether I can adequately answer your questions and whether the substantive signals have been properly followed, yes or no. In the letter I indicated how that was done. It is up to you to judge whether that is sufficient, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u74	I would like to give Mrs Nooren the opportunity to put a short question and then give the Minister the opportunity to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u75	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. If we continue, does the Minister intend to have another similar investigation carried out? It's kind of interesting to see if state rules are being implemented. And does she intend to agree with the inspection in advance that these results will end up in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u76	Mrs Nooren goes straight to the very last point that I wanted to give as a gift at the end of my reply. The answer is yes. And I'm also happy to include the inspection. Anyway, I must have told you. Here's what happened. Another example of how policy signals have been picked up in the meantime: Defence noise zones were one of the now legally secured signals. There was also a signal about fraud involving biofuels. That is now a whole policy process with the House of Representatives; that was one that I got myself. It shows how pleasant it is to have those signals in time, because then you can come to the front of that whole policy development, instead of just seeing it go wrong first. The question then is whether there is any decentralisation. Because the question is: does the Environment Act help, yes or no? This also depends, for part of your Chamber, on whether there is a decentralisation operation. We also discussed this last week, but perhaps it would be good to take that back in this context as well. Because this is not decentralisation as youth care and care were. In the field of the physical environment, the powers are largely decentralised. There are three minor instances of delegation of powers, which we have shared. But for the rest, it's about dropping state rules. The municipalities therefore had and must comply with this requirement. That doesn't always go well. Introduction guidance is one of the components. I will come back to the question that Mrs Nooren has just asked. How is the Minister going to ensure that local authorities are well able to implement the Environment Act, asked the SGP. Tasks and powers remain largely the same. Governments have been making environmental and space considerations for decades. Municipalities also have plenty of time to work with that environmental plan and are well supported. I will come back to the figures and figures that we are actually drawing for them. Through the External Security Register, all security contours are included. These can also be accessed through the DSO. That is a clear improvement in the awareness. The report states that regulation is often perceived as complicated or not sufficiently known, or that mistakes are made. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that mistakes will be made in every system, no matter how we set it up. We should try to avoid that as much as possible. But a 100% guarantee is of course never to be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u77	Can I just go back to the register for a second? 'Cause it was a little fast. It stands for expansion, but when will it be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u78	I'll get back to you on that. We attach great importance to securing national interests, such as electricity supply, primary quay, world heritage. This starts with clarity towards the co-governments, which they must meet. Under the Environmental Act, this clarity is improved along three ways. The instruction rules for the environmental plan come together in one chapter in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. Now they are spread over all kinds of laws, AMvBs, ministerial regulations and circulars. As a municipality, you know exactly what rules must be complied with through the environmental plan. An example just mentioned by the CDA was external security. Rules on this issue are currently fragmented over five pieces of legislation. By grouping together it becomes more insightful what is required of municipalities and provinces when establishing such an Environment Plan. The instructional rules are also clarified on parts, for example at the Nature Network Netherlands, on external security and on the rules for world heritage. Also, formulations are often simpler and more uniform. And we talked about it extensively last week: digital support needs to be improved. This will also improve accessibility. Under current law, municipalities sometimes have to overwrite contours in their zoning plans. Sometimes that is slow, and sometimes mistakes are made. With the arrival of the DSO that is no longer necessary. The areas of operation of rules for Rijk and local authorities are shown in conjunction with the DSO viewer. For example, it is immediately clear where the contours lie and therefore it is less easy to make mistakes. This kind of support will help to improve compliance. Mr Rietkerk asked about the recommendations, including the exchange of knowledge at above-regional and national levels. Because that knowledge component is, of course, extremely important. I will tell Mr Rinnooy Kan, if I speak to him again, that you have quoted him. I think we all share that conclusion. In my conversation with the other authorities, I will check whether the need for knowledge exchange is sufficient at the moment. Because we're already doing a lot of things. Introducing investment in the Empire amounts to some 63 million euros. We do that because we think that knowledge is so important. 18 million grants for support, through the VNG and the Union of Water Councils, 35 million national investment in deployment support, 10 million national investment in an information point. That is all meant to ensure that knowledge that is so important at a good level. Mrs Nooren also asked me whether I think that the rules of the state and the rules of instruction should be followed. Yes, of course. The starting point is, of course, that municipalities do the same. In terms of intergovernmental relations, we can in principle assume that we all follow the established rules. Then support is important and then, for example, facilitation through the DSO is important. Knowledge sharing is also extremely important, but you can in principle rely on trust between the levels of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u79	Is the small 70 million linked to the implementation agenda, licensing and enforcement and monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u80	This is the money that is made available at the time of the introduction of the Environment Act, i.e. in width. I'll come back later on to licensing, enforcement and supervision. In addition to that, there are also possibilities for questions. We ask the municipalities to contact and maintain government services that look specifically at interests, such as the National Cultural Heritage Agency, for culture and the National Real Estate Agency for Defence Areas. These services are actively looking at new plans of the municipalities. Besides, there can always be situations that we don't want. Furthermore, I am thinking of the possibilities for inter-administrative supervision. Anyway, I'll get back to you on that. To Mrs Nooren: the Environment Act improves the awareness of the rules. That makes compliance easier. The extra space for decentralised balancing does not change that, because it is actually part of the rules. We have precisely defined clear boundaries, which are also clear within which you may vary. So that also gives better expression. Mrs Baay of 50PLUS asked how this recognition would be improved. Because there's less fragmentation. Now all the rules are fragmented over a large number of laws and AMvBs. That's what the ILT's signaling. He actually says: that makes it harder to find. The awareness of the rules of instruction is improved by bringing all the rules together in one chapter. So you know exactly what the environmental plan has to comply with. It's actually just a package you can walk away from. That's how you avoid mistakes. In addition, I have set up the Information Point Environment Act. That point is intended to explain the content of the new rules. That info point is really about the knowledge infrastructure; that is literally a phone number that can just be called with questions. Then, of course, there is always the question of whether it will be simpler or not. One says this and the other writes it. It is always very difficult to assess what is the balance in the breadth of the system as a whole. That is precisely why I found it so crucial to have this consultative committee, which looked at the whole system in its entirety, and which consisted of professors in a variety of fields, involving all domes and local authorities. That committee has actually made a judgment on it now becomes simple and better under the Environment Act. The conclusion of the full, independent advisory committee on environmental law, sent to Parliament in early December: the legal structure is systematic and solid, while the new legal system is more insightful and user-friendly. I attach great importance to this opinion and the expertise of the advisory committee and fully endorse that conclusion. Does that make it bedtime-reading for everyone? No, of course not. But neither is the current legislative system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u81	I assume you've read the article of the two lawyers in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine. These are people who, in daily practice, apply the rules for entrepreneurs, among other things. They come to a very different conclusion from the committee you are talking about, where there are people who may be looking at things more abstractly and at the structures, whether they are solid and so on, but who do not have to do with the legal handicrafts. What's your verdict on that? Has sufficient attention been paid to the people who really have to work with the legal handicrafts with this regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u82	I think that Mr Nicolaï is very easily ignoring the expertise of the advisory committee and is not necessarily doing so. However, we will be paying close attention to this when it comes to implementation. That's why we're gonna monitor and evaluate. We keep following what's going on. In practice, things can sometimes turn out a little differently than they are meant to be. The advisory committee has looked closely at the workability and enforcement of the whole system. I have faith in their judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u83	That wasn't my question. I think there are very learned people on that advisory committee, but it's about the level you're at when you look at that regulation. I am concerned, for example, that people who work with these rules in everyday practice are already saying: one is at home in environmental law, the other is at home in regional planning law, and that is all being swept together now. We can almost no longer work with it. It's just getting more complicated. Has there been sufficient attention paid by that advisory committee, to that particular point, not in an abstract approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u84	I think we had that debate last week. I would just like to point out that it is not just about people who are very far from the practice. That advisory committee also includes a lawyer and a judge-alternate. They're both really standing with their feet in the clay. Their conclusion was, looking at the whole thing, that the legal structure is solid. You will find this less interesting for this point. In addition, they also say that the new legal system is more insightful and user-friendly, including people with their feet in the clay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u85	Last time, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u86	Finally. I also used the word "invisible" in my story just now, at least if the DSO succeeds. It is either the complexity of the regulation. You can take very insightful rules until you take them and then you don't know which way to go if you're going to apply them. We're not going to have this discussion again, but I came up with it because the minister said it was all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u87	I'd still like to respond to it. The question asked is: is it more user-friendly and has the committee looked into it? The answer to that is yes. The committee also looked at user-friendliness. The Committee concludes that the new legal system is more transparent and user-friendly. That conclusion has been drawn by a committee that has looked at both the separate traces and the whole and that includes not only people who look at abstraction levels but also people who stand with their feet in the clay, a lawyer and a judge. In that sense, I hope I can reassure you that, where you have these concerns, people have also looked at it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u88	Mrs. Kluit, would you like some more? If in doubt, I say don't cross. But you want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u89	I'm having second thoughts. In response to Mr Nicolaï's question, the independent committee now seems to be given the role of the Council of State, which judges the legal quality of the things we do. The Council of State was quite critical of the system of the Environment Act and I believe it is to this day. The Council for Justice is also and also coming from the field of work with heavy signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u90	Mrs Kluit, I have to say that you are beginning to repeat the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u91	The question is: can the Minister reflect on the position of the independent committee vis-à-vis the other bodies we have set up to assess the legal quality of legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u92	In any case, after the opinion of the Council of State, there will always be a further report. They can be followed up by critical points. In addition, the introduction law meets the objectives of the system. There have been modifications. This committee has looked at the whole thing once again. It is a step-by-step process: there is a proposal, then there is the Council of State, then adjustments are made and the committee has finally assessed the whole, both the separate tracks and the overall system. In addition to what I just said, that there are people on that committee with their feet in the clay, there are also bone tests done. It's been tested how this works out in practice. All this information together supports the committee's conclusion that it has become more insightful and user-friendly. The ILT report, which is actually the reason for this deadline, indicates that mistakes are also made in the current system. So we can see that it is important to pay attention in practice to the different levels of government, how this fits in well with each other and whether we are good at it. We are now setting up a very comprehensive implementation support. There is an information point that can be called when there are questions. It is precisely with this introduction that there is every support to further address this type of problem in practical implementation. We're gonna monitor and evaluate, so we're gonna be there all the time. That is the best guarantee for the future. Sometimes things work out differently or the world changes. I'll come back to that later on at the bottom block. That's where the world turned out to be changed at once. We thought we were almost done with soil remodeling, but then there turned out to be another problem. That's the kind of signals you get from practice, and you have to keep reacting to it. Then there is Mrs Nooren's question about how the municipalities will deal with the dowry. The dowry contains rules, the appropriate rule of which is mainly related to the local situation. It's gonna be in the environmental plan. Municipalities will not soon overlook them, because they are all in one environmental plan. That's all in one chapter of the BKL. That's different now. The instructions for the zoning plan are fragmented over ten laws and AMvBs. So that makes it more clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u93	Thank you. That wasn't my question. You bring fellow governments into a situation where on the one hand you say "this is the rule of the kingdom, you have to do this" while on the other hand you say "this is the norm in the dowry and you may deviate within conditions." At the same time, we ask officials to think according to the principle of equality. The question I tried to ask was: I know how difficult it is when the same employee says "here's the limit and you can't get over it" and the next moment says "why are you not creative." We're gonna put him in a bigger bowl. Mr Nicolaï mentions 400 places where they need to be creative. I'm surprised by it, but if people already don't follow rich rules, how complicated are we in the new system when one minute someone says "this is what it is, zero movement space" and half an hour later, for example, an alderman says "now I expect you to get creative"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u94	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u95	That's the essence of where we're going in the Environment Act. We give a standard value and it is clear that you can focus on that in principle, but also clearly defined what the movement space is. That can't be a surprise. There are bandwidths and you can ask whether we think there is enough or too much space in those burn widths, but the substantive standard has been taken into account. It often comes from European regulations. That has been transformed into a poor policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u96	I'm gonna give it a little try. One of the reasons why the inspection thought it wasn't good was the role view. That's what I'm talking about, not facts, because I can read them. Then I'm going to repeat what the Minister himself said. My point is that the dilemma with the Environment Act is that you require different roles of the same people. The question is whether there is sufficient attention to that. Mr Verkerk also asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u97	The cultural aspect. Then I understand your question better. Last week, when we discussed this, we said that this really is a process. We create with that dowry that's also a wish... more room for that local customization. That does indeed require a slightly different role. That's right. There are all kinds of rules about how to deal with that. The discussion we have had about participation is very important in this, to include people in the cultural change that is about to take place and to ensure that interests are well protected in this cultural change. That is why the whole process of monitoring is very important in following that process. I'm sorry. I wouldn't have understood the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u98	Minister, let me take a look at the time. I don't know how much longer you'll need to answer the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u99	I've got a few more, Mr. Chairman. I will try to do justice to that and not read unnecessarily long texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u100	Then let me give you some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u101	Mrs Kluit had asked when a particular register would be ready. That answer has now disappeared in the pile. I shall return to that bilaterally if necessary. I need to find that answer in the pile. Mrs Kluit also asked about the areas of focus on group risks. They make it clear in which area there can still be life-threatening consequences in the event of an incident. That makes it tangible. The calculated focus areas shall be included in the existing external security register. They're so digitally accessible. This can already be done via Riskkaart.nl. During the development phase this is also unlocked in the DSO. Then there's supervision. This is divided into inter-administrative monitoring of the performance of space and environment tasks on the one hand and VTH, licensing, monitoring and enforcement on the other. Inter-administrative supervision was adapted in 2012 with the Revitalisation Act generic supervision. Since then, the province has been supervising the implementation by municipalities and you know this and the Empire is monitoring it again. The implementation of that law was evaluated externally and independently in 2017. The general picture is that the system works, but that improvement is possible. That is why the strategic agenda for the future has been agreed. What's in it? That agenda was offered to the Chamber at the end of 2018. Five lines of action have been agreed: strengthening, linking, horizontal control and vertical monitoring, improving dialogue and learning through supervision, standardising the implementation of supervision, and monitoring focuses on shared risks rather than paper reality. That trajectory is now underway. The ILT report can of course also serve as a case. Together with the VNG and the IPO, we are now discussing the development of the agenda. In addition to the further development of these lines of action, I will also really discuss the report of the ILT, which has now become public, with the provinces and the municipalities. They asked why it hadn't been discussed before. That's because it hasn't become public before, but now that it's there, we have to discuss it, of course, also in its context and looking at the sum total. The planning is that a progress letter will be sent to the House of Representatives in the near future. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions about VTH and inter-administrative supervision. At the moment I invest, among other things, through knowledge tables, the website Getting started with the Environment Act and meetings in knowledge development. Mrs. Klip asked for that. In the implementation agenda VTH, I focus, among other things, on improving the exchange of knowledge and information between environmental services and between local authorities. In addition, I explicitly look at the building up of knowledge in the environmental services in the field of new developments such as very worrying substances and the energy transition. Mr Janssen asked whether intergovernmental supervision could be faster and less viscous. The question is whether this is always viscous, but the new set-up of inter-administrative supervision is that it is more risk-oriented at the front, so that inter-administrative intervention is not necessary. Of course, you hope with each other that you can organize it in such a way that it is not necessary. Mrs Nooren asked about enforcement under the Environment Act. It is linked to the instruments of inter-administrative supervision. That system was built in good consultation. We must, of course, continue to follow that. The Environment Act provides clear regulations. This will promote compliance, but we will of course see if this report will give rise to further tightening up. Every two years I investigate the quality of the performance of the VTH tasks. I have already said in the debate what I want to do with it. On 29 November this research was offered to the House of Representatives. I have also had specific cases examined. Some of these cases were simply related to things that have been in the media in recent years. How'd it go there? There were really questions about that at the Chamber. So we have really had specific cases going on. The research concludes that the system has developed and that it actually stands, but that there is room for improvement. Actions to improve a concrete implementation agenda VTH. I'll inform the House of Representatives about this before the summer of 2020. I'll be happy to send that information to your room as well. Then you can take note of that. In addition, an independent committee will look specifically at how we can strengthen and improve the VTH system. I told you before. I will, of course, include this report by the ILT. Then there was Mr Janssen's question, where I see improvements in the independent implementation of the VTH, particularly in the area of independence. This is one of those things that get picked up at some point and you want something with. Research and signals show that there is tension between an independent exercise of supervision and enforcement and the position of environmental services vis-à-vis the competent authority. This has to do, for example, with the mandating of the environmental services, but also sometimes with the administrative connection with the implementation. In the implementation agenda, I would like to discuss this with those parties and ensure independent implementation of monitoring and enforcement. On the other hand, that must of course be balanced with administrative responsibility. Within the framework of the competent authority, the supervisory authority should be able to exercise and maintain completely independent supervision where necessary. Concrete actions will be included in the implementation agenda planned for the summer. Mrs Kluit asked a question about the register of external security. That's almost finished. That's definitely ready for 2021. Through a link in the DSO it becomes clear. In the development of the DSO, the contours become visible in the viewer of the DSO. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of points. National interests with instructional rules remain well included in the Environmental Act. However, we are making some important improvements in order to increase awareness and visibility. I think that's gonna help with that. I think that all the money that is now being put into the introduction guidance is extremely important and that this is just going to help. I would also like to work on strengthening the supervisory system both through the VTH rail system and through the inter-administrative rail system. Let me say again: the report that has now become public, of course, is also explicitly included in this report. We have to learn from it. When you get a report like this and these signals, you always have to want to learn from it. After all, we can make the system stronger with each other. That is absolutely my commitment. So I am going to consult the municipalities, the provinces and the state services to see if there are any points in this report that still require further reflection. I am also prepared to re-assess national interests in the environmental plans following the entry into force of the Environment Act. That was actually Mrs Nooren's question. Municipalities will grow into a full environmental plan in the coming years. It will therefore require a little consultation with the domes on how to do this properly, but I would be happy to include you in that. Then there was Mr Nicolaï's question as to whether I would be willing to explicitly examine how many municipalities feel ready to start working for the go/no go. I'm doing another monitoring this six months. I'll get you that information. Ms Baay mentioned a number of commitments that were of interest to her in the Environment Act. She asked me to confirm the following commitments: to ensure access to the DSO for all, a national information campaign, after the entry into force for at least one year sufficient support with regional teams at the expense of the government and a legal obligation to justify the extent to which participation policies have been applied. I'm gonna do all that. Then Mrs Kluit had a specific question on the quality of groundwater production areas. How's that taken care of? I should like to suggest that I return to this point in the discussion of the soil bill. Mr President, I hope that I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u102	I note that there is still a single question, of at least five people. I'm gonna give you some room for that right now. I shall begin with Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u103	You answered the question about the implementation programme authorisation, supervision and enforcement in terms of process, but my question was: can the Minister address the investment needed for authorisation, supervision and enforcement in good time before we deal with the KB framework? I would really like an answer to that. I want to have a look at the investments made by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u104	The implementation agenda will come up for 2020. It is not just a question of additional resources, in addition to the money already available for implementation support. It is also about agreements being made. But the implementation agenda is coming up for the summer. If the conversations show that there is a need for this, we will take it with us in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u105	The CDA Group needs to understand the need for enforcement, authorisation and supervision not to be a closing point, but really a closing point, in which state investment is also made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u106	Let me just take that point into account in the letter that comes before the summer, because the conclusion may also be that the resources are sufficient and that it is about cooperation. In any case, I shall come back to the financial aspect in the letter and to the question whether we feel that there is sufficient resources available for this, because that is how I interpret your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u107	Shortly, in close reading. Sometimes you have to read what it says and sometimes what it doesn't say. The Minister said a few times about the report 'yes, but it was all known'. That's not what the ILT's statement says. The ILT statement states that most underlying signals and reports had already been published and/or offered. So there was indeed new information in this report. Yet it has been chosen not to share it. I'm surprised. The second is that no pressure has been experienced. No, in a good, friendly, peer relationship, you don't have to experience it as crowded when someone asks to adapt. You don't have to do that with pressure. If BZK's reaction to the annual report and the draft text which had been "no comments', would something have been changed in the text? There's got to be a comment somewhere. The Minister said in his comments to Mr Nicolaï that she would do her best to see if this e-mail exchange could still be available for the votes. That's what I like to hear, because I'm interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u108	With if-dan questions you should always be careful, especially when it comes to other settings. Questions have been asked, as I have said, and if Mr Janssen says'most information', then I think it is important to see the whole report in the sum of all signals, because sometimes the sum of parts is also relevant in itself. That is why I have said that I will certainly discuss it with all parties. If that leads to points that we want to include in the further implementation, we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u109	What about the e-mail exchange?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u110	I didn't make a promise that that would work. I just said I'd watch. The honourable Member has already made a statement on this. I'm sticking to that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u111	Mr. Janssen, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u112	Finally. I would like to make it clear that this is not about what you are going to discuss, but about the fact that there was new information in this report. It wasn't just the sum of the parts, it was an addition. Otherwise, the ILT does not use the word "most" in "most had already been published."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u113	That wasn't a question. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u114	I welcome the commitment to my fourth question. Maybe I didn't quite get it right at all speed. I had asked if the Minister would be willing to explicitly examine how many municipalities do not consider themselves sufficiently equipped for implementation. That's the question. Is the commitment focused on that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u115	We have noted the question in this way: Is the Minister prepared to investigate explicitly how many municipalities feel ready to get to work? The answer to that question is yes, because I am monitoring again this six months. I hope you will allow me to formulate the question myself, but this is what we are prepared to do. That gives you an idea of how many municipalities feel ready to get started. I think that is the essence of what we are looking for here together before we have to make a go/no go decision. Is the city ready, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u116	I suggest that Mr. Nicolaï let that come to him for a moment and let it settle for a moment. In the meantime, Mrs Kluit can ask her question. Maybe Mr. Nicolaï will come to the conclusion that he wants something else or maybe he's too much and then he can take the microphone one time. Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u117	In any case, I agree with the CDA and the comments on the VTH. I had also asked questions about regional airports and military airports. It's fine to do this in the sound debate, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u118	I think I have already replied to these two points in the first period. I see your colleagues nodding too. So that has already been addressed in the answer in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u119	Thank you for the commitment to have a further check on how the state regime is being dealt with in the future. The Minister also made a comment about risk-based inter-administrative supervision. Is it common for such monitoring reports to become public?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u120	I'm gonna have to check it out. That's your request?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u121	It seems logical to me that when an inspection looks at whether something is going well, this is being done for all of us. Then I would very much like to share the results and where it is relevant to the Environment Act with us as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u122	It just seems logical to me, but I'll check the exact status of it. I believe that we share the importance of transparency and early identification of the signals. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u123	Will you come back to this term or will you come back to it later by a short note?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u124	We'll talk about soil later. Perhaps I can come back to this at the beginning of the answer. Unless it can be done very quickly now, but the officials may have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u125	We have votes for soil, so it would be nice if we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u126	I'll do my best to get a quick answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u127	Exactly. It may also be taken shortly before the votes. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Nooren? Yeah, just before the vote is good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u128	I can see a couple of people running for the answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u129	Mr Verkerk has a final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u130	In my response I paid a lot of attention to culture. You have said a few words about it, especially with regard to role-conception, taking responsibility, making customization etc. etc. However, I would be grateful if you would give an explicit undertaking that all governments will discuss this matter with us. Because if you don't discuss culture, structural changes won't help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u131	I'd be happy to admit it. In the debate on the Introduction Act, we discussed culture extensively with each other and the importance of continuing to follow that path of cultural change and to work together in it. So I'm happy to say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u132	Thank you. I look around and conclude that there are no further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-12.u133	The votes will take place immediately after the dinner break, which ended at 7.15 p.m. I'll see you all back here at 7:15.
