ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome Mr Wilders, who is standing at the interrupting microphone. I see Mr. Klaver, too. I actually wanted to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Medical Care, yes, it will take a while, Mr Wilders, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. Of course, I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament. I was actually about to start, but I see Mr Wilders standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr President, I would also like to welcome you. I would like to begin with a point of order. I see a lot of rulers sitting in trade union K, but it's not exactly the one ruler I'd like to see. That's Secretary of State Keijzer for Economic Affairs. As you know, there was a secret note yesterday. The media first announced that, and because the Chamber then asked for it, it was sent to the Chamber. It is a note full of truths, which is too useful not to discuss it with the person in charge. My proposal would therefore be to invite the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Mrs Keijzer. I made that proposal yesterday, and I'm doing it again now. As far as I'm concerned, Minister Wiebes may do something else this afternoon. So there don't have to be more people in V-K. So my proposal is Mr Wiebes to go home today and Mrs Keijzer to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u3	I very much support it, because I really do not have any questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs, but I do have them for the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I was just thinking about someone who really knows business. I thought we'd invite the Secretary of State this afternoon. It's a shame if the minister has to sit here all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u4	You're listening, too. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u5	I thought that was the subject of the regulation yesterday, and that was when the conclusion was that she did not need to be there. We have joined the Chamber. I did not follow the scheme literally yesterday, but I was informed from AZ that that was the conclusion of the scheme. On that basis, we have put together this delegation. I can tell you that Mr Wiebes does more than just the cafés. He is, of course, fully involved in the support package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u6	In other words?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u7	So his presence is very pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber is, of course, about the arrangement and not the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister can be a bit lighthearted about it, but this is a very important piece. It is about a lot of people in the hospitality industry whose business is going down and whose employees are threatened with dismissal. There's one secretary of state who's just got the catering company in her package. That is an important part of the debate today. Majorities or not, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to run his team; he is the first of his peers to meet the opposition, at least two members and two groups of the opposition, by asking if the Secretary of State can be present. That can always be done with blunt majorities. That can also be a reasonable request to the Prime Minister, who then says: it is an important issue, it is reasonable; I invite her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr President, on the basis of the arrangement yesterday, this delegation was constituted, unless I have been misinformed as to what came out of the arrangement. But I think it came from the fact that the request for the Secretary of State's presence did not have a majority, if I have analysed that correctly. I see a number of members nodding. On that basis, agendas have been emptied and I would like to stick to this delegation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u10	The scheme is also literally defeated. It is always up to the cabinet to put together its own delegation. I think the message is clear. In the end, it is up to the cabinet to see whether or not the Minister of State is here. Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u11	Yeah, finally. Of course, the cabinet is about its own delegation, but the Prime Minister is calling for this to be not a majority in the Chamber. Mr Wilders has made a request to have the Secretary of State present. In any case, I support that, but it is also a question for colleagues. We would very much like to be able to put a question to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. If colleagues support us in this, the Prime Minister's argument will lapse and there will suddenly be a majority in favour of inviting the Secretary of State. So it is also a question for colleagues. We would like to have the opportunity to ask the Secretary of State as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u12	I can't force anyone to walk to the interrupting microphone, so there's no need to support this request, if I can judge it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u13	You can't force them. I can do that. Then I want a vote on this. According to the Rules of Procedure, I can now ask for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u14	About an order proposal? Well, I'll take a look. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u15	I would like to step forward and say that I am very comfortable with this representation and that I do not need an additional representative of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u16	I support the proposal, Mr President. If I'm right, it seemed to be a misunderstanding. If it's a communication misunderstand, can't it be arranged differently if there's a request?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u17	I agree with what Mr Segers said. We can have the debate with this minister, including on the catering industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u18	I support the request made by Mr Wilders and Mr Klaver. I think the Secretary of State can speak more specifically on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u19	If there are colleagues here who would like to ask questions to the Secretary of State, I think it would be good if she were there, otherwise I think it would be very complicated to have them answered. So support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u20	Support for Mr Wilders' request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u21	Support for the request. After all, it is the Secretary of State himself who caused quite a fuss yesterday. It is perhaps also a good thing that she explains this herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u22	Support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten and Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u24	I didn't see a signature from the Secretary of State under the letter. It's about a note that we make a lot of, but which, I believe, isn't even from a ruler, from any ruler. I think it's up to the Cabinet to assess who's making it answer questions. I don't have any questions for either of you, but it's up to the cabinet who it comes with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u25	So no support for asking the Secretary of State to join us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u26	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr Jetten and then Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u28	I can also put my questions to this delegation of the cabinet on the basis of the letter sent, so no support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u29	In view of the State Secretary's interview on the issue of this debate, I do not think it is unreasonable that she should be present for a moment. I therefore support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u30	I'll take a look at Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u31	We supported the request yesterday, but it is up to the cabinet itself to deal with its delegation. It would be a credit to the cabinet if it were to respond to the request, but if it is different, we can live with it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u32	Yes. Mr. Stoffer, it is important...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u33	Was that for or against?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u34	I was just about to ask Mr Stoffer. I'm just counting, 'cause if we don't, we're just gonna have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u35	As far as I am concerned, the cabinet is about its own delegation. If the cabinet thinks this is the right delegation, we can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u36	Then there's no majority for the request, Mr. Wilders. Yes, I have to count well, because the proportions have been a bit unclear lately, let me add. I shall then give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u37	Mr. Chairman. We had hoped for more space for Christmas. But unfortunately, the virus is still outsmarting us or we're all not acting smart enough, it's just how you look at it. If we continue to do so, the measures must be stricter than more flexible, with all the damage that this entails. Damage to health care, where the pressure is rising, where absenteeism has risen to 20% and where nurses have no choice but to be a coronamoe. They're tired, they're out, too, but they have to go on and on. Damage to entrepreneurs, especially in the catering, cultural and event industries that have to be close longer and may not make it, because we all give the virus too much space because we went into the city on Black Friday for a few tens discount and made it a real black Friday. Mr. Chairman. We have three ways to get out of the situation: stick to the measures, test and vaccinate. But it's only gonna work if we do all three at once. Sometimes it seems as if, with the finish in sight, the announcement of the vaccine, it is even more difficult to keep to the measures and limit ourselves. It's great that there's a vaccine coming up, that we're already talking about who we're gonna inoculate when and that we might be able to do anything again in the summer. But that news can also make us think that we are already there, that we are slacking down and that we unconsciously have the idea that in January everyone is about to be vaccinated, everything can again and that we can't really get sick anymore or can transfer the virus. And that's devastating. It reminds me a bit of Sven Kramer in Vancouver 2010: on course for gold, but in the end picking the wrong track. To make sure that we all take the right job, the coach must also be sharp. Just now that rapid tests and vaccines seem within reach and bear the promise of more space, the cabinet must be keen on the execution and on the way we communicate about it. What about the roll-out of quick tests? Is that still being worked on, or has the focus shifted all the way to vaccination? What I understand is that there is not so much a lack of rapid tests or PCR tests as of its validation. Then the question is: if this validation is complete, can we get started right away? Are we gonna have logistics ready to roll it out? Do we have a way for people to show that they have been vaccinated or have had a recent test that was negative? Maybe next to the CoronaMelder app we'll have some kind of corona-free app? I understand that there are all kinds of companies offering their help from all sides. I get that there might be a cowboy in there who's more focused on money than on real help. But we also hear from people who we think can and want to help, that they don't really get through. It would all be a lot at the same time in the cabinet and in the ministry. Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister say that he is busy preparing the vaccination of the Netherlands. I'd be happy to take that from him. But are practice situations also being created so that we can see how things are going? Can we get an impression that shows more than just data, numbers and the news reports that take over each other every day? And if the vaccine itself is there, do we have everything in order? Can we keep it in a good way? It may be very flat, but has there been a practical situation somewhere, literally at a general practitioner's practice, put down such a bucket of dry ice with a thermometer in it to see how long it stays at the right temperature? So not in a lab, but in real life. That kind of little thing seems to me useful information, especially now that the vaccine is delivered with 975 at the same time. If we don't know exactly, it's gonna look a little like the size of the box determines who's gonna be vaccinated first. I understand that we want to inoculate the most vulnerable in society, in nursing homes and health care institutions, first. But the fact that older people and vulnerable people who don't live there have to go through the GP, I don't quite understand. If someone can go to the GP, they should be able to go to a sports hall, for example. Let us not try to stuff the reality that we are going to have in the coming months into existing structures. This is not the same as the existing vaccination programmes. This isn't about one year of birth that you have to vaccinate in 2021. You have to vaccinate about 100 years of birth in 2021 at once. You don't make it through normal channels, because it'll take too long. Mr. Chairman. The economic side and the support package. It is good that the package has been enlarged. We shouldn't let go of each other in front of the finish line. I read that there are doubts as to whether it is the most sensible macroeconomic. Honestly, I don't think that's the most important thing right now. It's the most honest way to deal with each other. It is not so much about the tables, but about the families who are in uncertainty and also reading and seeing that there is light at the end of the tunnel. We shouldn't let them go bankrupt now, especially in the catering industry. What about the hospitality experiments? Can the cabinet go into that? Are these experiments being prepared now, is it ready? Are we going to distinguish between that crowded bar with loud music and screaming people and a restaurant where you can quietly eat a bite at a sufficient distance? If these field labs show positive methods, are we ready to roll them out very quickly and offer an opening to those entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u38	The VVD lets the catering business go bankrupt. What do I hear now? That the group chairman of the VVD says to stand up for the catering industry? You're not doing that at all! You're not doing that at all! The catering industry could just open up. There's a secret note, which is now public, from the Ministry. It says that opening up the catering industry leads to fewer infections. If you didn't believe that already, if you believed in the story of RIVM and not in the story of the ministry, then you could now responsibly open the catering industry. Why don't you? You say to the catering industry: fat middle finger, you close up and look at it. Why do you do that? Why don't you stand up for those people in the hospitality business? The water doesn't just stand on people's lips, drowning people. The companies are going down, the families are going into poverty. And I'm not exaggerating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u39	It's very poignant. There's nothing I'd like more than to have them open. But because these people are sometimes driven to despair, I find it even worse if we are going to offer them false hope. That note has been leaked and has given hope again with a lot of bombs. But when you read that note, you can see it's not an analysis. If a student had come along when I was still in college, I would have asked where the rest of them were. It is a starting point for a hypothesis, without any evidence whatsoever. It is of the level: in that week it rained, then there were more infections, in that week it was sunny and then there were fewer infections, so when it rains, we get sick. It's not an analysis. It is not Mr Wilders' fault that that memo is there and is on the street. But then we can all, including Mr Wilders, choose what we do with it. Are we going to use that memo for a political cart and are we going to give the people something that is not valid and not the proof that Mr Wilders is making it now, besides the shit they already have, to offer false hope? Or do we honestly say that there is no reason to believe that the catering industry can be opened up safely? We have experienced that many clusters of contamination came from the catering industry and that people took the contamination home and to work. It's just annoying and shit that we can't get it under control and that you need to close it, we're offering you more support for.. billions more in aid..... but we can't give you false hope by telling you that it would be justified to open up again. You can't stack that on top of that suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u40	I didn't make that note. I don't think that note was made by a student either. It's a note from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Just the official ministry. Many people in the Netherlands think: well, who works at the ministry, then there is an official piece, which was also officially sent to the Chamber yesterday. Then there's a piece of the coalition, at least from the Ministry, the Ministry makes that. Then you shouldn't pretend a student made that. That is not the case. And do you know why it makes sense? 'Cause those caterers have already been squealed like hell. Do you know how to page them? Why don't you go to a mall? Why don't you go to a shopping street on a Saturday or on a sale night? And you can see that all the shops are open. All of them. People sometimes line up, from the Bijenkorf to the Sligro, I know where they're all going. Only the catering business is closed. How can you explain that to that catering company? Everything's open, only the catering business is closed. And why? Is that important intelligent note correct? Because that's the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the official Ministry of Economic Affairs? It's crystal clear, everyone gets that at home, that if you're not allowed to go to the pub and if you're not allowed to go to the restaurant, then after that shopping you've been to all the shops, except at the restaurant, because it's close together on the coffee, or have a drink or a beer at each other's house. And then there is no one at home, like a staff member in a restaurant or the bar boss, who says: beware, one and a half meters, beware, there must be a screen here. No. So the movements, you can see from the numbers, only grow in people's homes. The number of infections in the people's home is double or tripled. And that's because the hospitality business is closed, so that's a very stupid measure. Now be smart and tell me that intelligent note from that intelligence official from the Ministry of EZ is just logical, that that's right, and that the catering industry needs to be open. They're going bankrupt. You're gonna choke on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u41	Mr President, I find this sad. Mr Wilders didn't write that note, but he can read it. I understand that he is about the level of the election programme we are used to from Mr Wilders, in which false promises to people who are in the shit are offered easy things that simply cannot be done. I think that's even worse. Those people are having a hard time. You can offer them support, but you don't have to fool them into thinking it's justified to open up. Like there were no infections in the hospitality industry. Like the RIVM didn't take a careful look at that. It's like there's people at the Catshuis who say in some kind of conspiracy, "Who are we gonna bully this week?" It's like they don't look at it properly. And there really are catering entrepreneurs who are watching and thinking, this Dijkhoff snooping and this Wilders guy is a hero, he's right, we should be able to open up. But I'm sure there are more catering entrepreneurs who are already in the shit, who saw that note yesterday and thought with a shock: maybe it really can. They have read what it was about and have seen: yes, but this is not it, this is not working; this is not proof in an intelligent note. They've seen that it still can't be done. They also know that we must all behave better and stick to the measures. That's the way the catering industry can open up again. With quick tests, with vaccines, but above all by sticking to the measures. Not by wishful thinking and by using the misery in which people are in, to push them a little for your political cart, as Mr Wilders is doing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u42	It is quite clear that the VVD is now miles away from the catering industry. She's miles away from the catering industry, while she first pretended to represent those entrepreneurs. You have just completely forgotten that the chairman of their largest trade association, the Royal Horeca Netherlands, has been calling for the catering industry to be open for some time. I'm not saying that; that's not my election program. No, that's what the representative of the largest trade association in the catering industry, the Royal Horeca Netherlands. He has been calling for weeks, for months, that the catering industry can be opened responsibly and says that it is now being held hostage by this cabinet. Those aren't a couple of catering entrepreneurs. That's the president of the biggest hospitality association. You're gonna choke him! You're gonna drop him because you're just gonna tell them to shut their doors. All shops in the shopping streets are open. All of them. Except for the catering industry. Thanks to the VVD. Madam President, one final question. If you are ill-advised not to support this, then at least have the guts to leave them, through the TVL scheme, and to support wage costs for their staff not 80% or 85% or 70%, but at least 100%. Or let them open responsibly. Again, it can be justified; the chairman of the Royal Horeca Netherlands says so. Or support them at this time. Maybe not at first, but now, after a year of pain and misery. There are catering entrepreneurs calling the relief line because they have suicidal tendencies. That's just the truth. They call because they have suicidal tendencies, because they can't handle it. You're making it a political game. You shouldn't do that. If you do not let the catering industry open, 100% of the costs of these people will be paid for, otherwise we will have hardly any more catering companies in the Netherlands. You can't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u43	Precisely because there are indeed catering entrepreneurs who are close to despair, you have to deal with this carefully and not take those things and blow them up to give them false hope. We have billions in support, but that's not gonna be enough for everyone. And in the meantime, the suffering is still great when you have a catering company. Then of course you cling to everything. And then such a message as yesterday's is only an extra damper, if it turns out that it is not the way to opening. We need to find our way to opening. That would be the quickest thing to do if we all just stick to the rules, so that not so many people get infected. Another route is to find out together with the Royal Horeca Netherlands and the entrepreneurs exactly how to sort out the questions I have just asked.The catering industry can be opened in a responsible way and to roll out as soon as possible as soon as you have found a way that has been validated and you know it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mr Van Haga, Mr Krol and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u45	Then let's leave that note for a minute. We have of course also had the technical briefings of the RIVM. It just showed that before we put these measures in place, 2.6% of the infections took place in the hospitality industry. That was negligible. 60% took place in the home situation, 11% on family visits and 2.6% in the catering industry. And yet the catering industry has closed, with catastrophic consequences. Do you understand that there is an incredibly bad sentiment about this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u46	That's what's happening to me. I understand. I've got it myself. Like I like it all and like it all. Only, you have to keep looking at what the numbers say responsibly. About half of the infections that can be traced can be traced back by 2.6%. You can see that there are cluster effects: someone puts it on somewhere and then it is spread out at work and at home. Of course, you could have chosen a whole lockdown. You could have closed everything and it would have gone down even harder. And if we carry on like this with all of us and it keeps going up, we're gonna have to face that choice, too. You could have also said 'the catering industry remains open and the shops are closing' or 'the schools are closing'. It continues to make a choice in space that you can still offer, because it adds up or doesn't add up. The painful choice you make then is to close the catering and offer them support packages. It may feel fairer to change it on certain dates: then the catering industry opens and then the retail trade closes. But I do not think that many people have been helped and I think that the economic damage is even greater. It's just miserable right now. It's choosing between what annoying things you have to do and what things you can still offer space for. Next, the amount of space you can offer and distribute is determined mainly by how we behave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u47	I just think this is a weird answer. You can do all kinds of things. You can close the shops, you can opt for a total lockdown, you can all commit harakiri. I don't care about all that, but the decision that has been made is that we shut down the catering business, while only 2.6% of the infections took place there. So, again, my question: isn't that a weird decision when you know that the infections are taking place somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u48	No, because Mr Van Haga is now giving that 2.6% a whole colour of his own and that is what is happening. Of course, most infections occur in the home situation. If you walk up to it here, or had gotten into the catering business, or at sports, or at a Van der Valk in Tiel, to name any place at all, at a cozy dinner, where political harakiri is committed, and then you go home, you will probably infect all your roommates. Then you've infected four times as many people at home as the infection you've contracted. So you're also dealing with cluster effects, with movements, with contact moments. And it is not the intention of the closure of the restaurant that the same contact moments then take place elsewhere, so that you would sit in the coffee corner of the supermarket. That's why they're often closed. The point is that you have fewer contact moments and fewer movements, reducing the chance of the virus spreading. The biggest factor in this is our own behavior, and you try to influence it by taking measures that dampen it, like that you can only drop your children off at the front door after exercising and then stand in a parking lot. Those are also the measures we are taking to limit this. And the closure of the catering industry is one of them, and not an insignificant one, even if you look at the figures in Europe. So I think we should be very real about that. That doesn't make it any less miserable and that certainly doesn't make it fun, but I would have liked our behavior to have given us more space, so that the catering industry could have gotten some air now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u49	Finally, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u50	Yeah, finally. This is still a bit of a misdemeanor. It is 2.6% in the catering industry, so if you go home from the church in Breda via the pub and have a 2.6% chance of infection in that pub, or you close that pub and go home, then of course that doesn't matter so much. So the closure of the catering industry has been totally unnecessary in that respect. But we clearly disagree on that. You think that 2.6% really made a difference, and now you can see in the figures that it didn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u51	Anyway, if you find that out of the number of infections that there is, about half of them can't be traced, and the traceable 2.6% is verifiable from the catering industry, it's not the same as having a 2.6% chance of getting infected in the hospitality industry, as Mr Van Haga just said. So there goes that reasoning anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u52	I'm not gonna try to find differences, I'm just gonna try to find similarities. We're talking about the catering business here. That's not really a good concept, because 'ho' stands for 'hotels','re' stands for'restaurants', 'ca' stands for 'cafes'. The hotels are open and the hotels' restaurants are open. My question is: those restaurants that can guarantee sufficient distance, which have taken measures so that it can be safe there, why not at least give that group the opportunity to keep their heads above water?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u53	I hope that will be possible as soon as those field labs show us how that can be justified. And that's why I think they should start as soon as possible. And they should have started from me, but apparently they didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u54	As you can see, we are beginning to reach some sort of agreement, and I welcome it. Then you have those restaurants that must be closed, but are allowed to have take-away meals delivered or picked up. That also causes movements; that is where people go with their children, with their wives, to get that meal. So I ask you to join me in arguing that at least those restaurants can be opened. It's a lot safer. That's where fewer people are infected than you and my house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u55	There hasn't been any contamination at my house yet. And I always pick up the food on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u56	Mr Azarkan, Mr Asscher, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u57	To be honest, I didn't think it was such a high-profile note myself. But what I did find very painful is that those catering entrepreneurs, who sometimes get one, two or three customers one day, and get very depressed about it, if they're already open... Most of them aren't even open; you can't even pay the constant costs. We'll see that the other retail is advertising. They say, "Come to us, Black Friday!" Of this, Mr Dijkhoff says: well, the people should not do that for those two tens; you are actually a little crazy that you go to those shops for those two tens off. But that's a bit of a double signal, isn't it? Shouldn't we have expected the coaches, a bit like coach Kemkers, to say: boys, shouldn't we have done that with each other? Wouldn't that have been much wiser?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u58	I think that's what they said. Only they may have been overwhelmed by advertising from the stands to stay in the metaphor, which is always risky. Then the violence of advertising, of 'come anyway', the sense of people and the collective feeling of 'one time must be possible', have won it out of common sense. Because for the discount you could have ordered it online. Nothing Dutch is weird to me. I did it, too, but at home. So it was more than just the discount, because for the discount you could also go online. It was also about a sense of fun shopping, of hanging around and of 'we all collectively give ourselves a day'. As a result, shops had to close earlier and mayors had to intervene. There were also municipalities where things went quietly. That's what I'm supposed to say, but you don't see it on the news. I think that's true. I think we have already taken some significant steps, I say from the reflection of a liberal party, in not fully relying on common sense and calling on people not to do so. But there's another limit to what you can determine and enforce. People go back to finding their own way. I get that people are tired of it. I'm tired of it, too. But you gotta hang in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u59	It's been a while, Mr. Dijkhoff. I understand you're tired of it. But I'm talking about the catering business. You talk... you know, we have a responsibility here. Surely the cabinet has a responsibility. I see that the people in the hospitality industry really do destroy many of them. I don't have to explain that to you. If we meet... you're some kind of half-liberal. We think the catering industry is so dangerous, so no one's gonna be there. But then we say: the retail trade can be reasonable. There are also mayors who have contacted the cabinet, but the cabinet did not give home. Aboutaleb wanted to ban Black Friday, but the cabinet just didn't give home. What are we gonna do? We are very strict on one part of society, the catering companies: you do not open, because that is too dangerous. But for the other part, we're totally liberal. That's where people have to figure it out themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u60	No, I think there have also been a lot of municipalities where things went well. So before that, you didn't have to abolish it nationwide. Mayors may also take local decisions at their discretion, on grounds of public policy and other reasons. They did. As a catering entrepreneur, you first see Black Friday. If you haven't smashed your TV yet, when you see that footage, you'll do it when you see the discussion between mayors or between mayors and the cabinet about who stopped a closure. As mayor, if you think it's going too far, you're gonna step in. I don't think you need the cabinet for that. You'll hear another mayor say, "Well, that call isn't done so clearly." Honestly, I left it for what it was then. I think you can just intervene as mayor. That's also, when they thought it went too far, the closing times happened. We shouldn't shift our behavior to others all the time. Not that you do, but I wonder why you even went to that city at first, especially when you hear it's busy. It happened the next day. A mayor who finds it too busy in his city can take action. I think that's more effective than saying: I mumbled something in a meeting once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mr. Azarkan. Don't you have to? No. I shall go to Mr Asscher and then to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u62	Mr Dijkhoff compares the cabinet with the skating coach who sent Sven Kramer in the wrong direction during his almost golden race. I get that. The cabinet closes the libraries for two weeks and then does nothing about Black Friday. That's what happened. Then he acts like it's all Sven Kramer's fault that he's skating in the wrong direction. But we see that what happened has some serious consequences, maybe worse than no gold medal. More people sick, seriously ill. More exhausted care workers. Longer closed bars, theatres, events. Shouldn't we, with what we know now, ensure that the cabinet, together with the mayors, at the Christmas purchases that are coming now, doesn't make it happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u63	My equations were about from now on. In circles so far, I had not seen any wrong clues, but there is a risk that if we communicate with vaccines in sight, only about how fast and how beautiful that is and we do not continue to warn that it is not the solution right away, we will be able to choose the wrong job. I think it would be wise to use the lessons of Black Friday to do the Christmas shopping more widely and perhaps to intervene before it gets too crowded in the city. My impression is that many cities are already doing that. My impression is also that many cities and villages of course didn't have a problem with Black Friday. But it always doesn't stand out until it goes wrong. If the mayors indicated that they could use the cabinet or need help in doing so, it would be a good idea for them to hold that discussion, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u64	I don't know if it's liberal or whatever it is, but you're putting the cabinet down very passively and laconically. Eventually, it's something we're all about. We can see it's going south. The OMT is worried about those busy shopping streets. It's in the opinion. They see it as one of the causes of the rise, an increase that costs us hugely. And you put the cabinet like some kind of ice-skating coach waiting over each other's hands and thinking, "If the mayors want something, they'll have to say it." No, it can't be. We can't afford that. You can't make it to that owner of that closed café who sees the drommen walking to the Kalverstraat. You can't do it to those care workers either. So it's not: if anyone needs it, we have to do something about it. No, the cabinet is responsible for the biggest crisis in decades, responsible for the right policy. We can see that not enough has been done to prevent that Black Friday crowd. We know people are going to buy turkey next week. The question is: will we also call on the cabinet to actually do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u65	Mr Asscher has now opposed his own interpretation of what I said, but let me not go into that now. I think you need to take measures to prevent that fuss from repeating itself. I myself do not have any concrete ideas about this right now, perhaps Mr Asscher has that one at all how to do that generic before now, nationwide. Where I live, nobody walks to the Kalverstraat, but you can already check on an app how busy it is. There is already an early intervention and said 'don't come'. Crowd management is therefore carried out. Then activities are not carried out or relocated to ensure that there is not an all-time migration to the city. So it will also depend on where you live and what your image of it is. So my impression is that it takes very good customization locally. Hence my appeal that if they say 'this is going too far, we really need national policy for this', you have to jump in. If there are any good proposals that you say you can roll them out across the country... I can always see that when one mayor says 'the cabinet should have done this' the other mayor says 'well, I find that weird because we were fine'. Of course, the country consists of more than a few big cities that are often in the news. That is why I am not reluctant in the role of the cabinet, but in the idea that the same policy is needed everywhere in the country. I'd like to take that class you're taking from Black Friday first, see what's needed right now. It's also the way the Netherlands is run. There is no place in the Netherlands that does not fall into a municipality. If the result is that you also want to announce or suspend national measures or that we are inventing something here that we think is wise anywhere, I am of course open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u66	I actually have a question about the section on catering, because Mr Dijkhoff puts it away as a piece that could also have been written by a student, which at least is not very good. No, that's right, but the fact is that I find that sad and that's what my question is about, that's how selective disinformation is being leaked from circles of the cabinet. What does Mr Dijkhoff think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u67	First, I made the comparison with what I would think if I received this as a lecturer from a student. That does not mean that it is a disqualification of the intentions, because there are very good students of course. It's just, it's not finished, it's a start. It's more like: are there any leads? If you want to build up a reasoning that it isn't that bad, then you have to start with such a gross comparison, but then there is no basis, an analysis or a causal relationship that has been proven. I think you should have the space and the security to think out loud and to put forward official alternative views, in the safest sense that there are checks and that eventually someone decides whether it's right or not and whether it's policy. So that's not supposed to be leaked. The fact that it leaked is the invention of a lot of misery. The worst thing that bothers me most is that an entrepreneur first sees a headline which makes him think that there might be hope, which turns out not to be there. That's a sparrow, but it was dead. I'm very sorry that that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u68	That is exactly why I am asking the question, especially for the people in the catering companies, for the people who have those catering companies. It's bad for those people. They are made happy with a dead sparrow. But I do think that Mr Dijkhoff is playing down too much of what seems to be happening in the cabinet. Because this is not the only piece that has now come out in an inexplicable way and shows that there is controversy within the cabinet. In the other piece, three ministers from the cabinet actually state that it does not make much sense to give the virus the so-called hard blow, the real limit, because the test policy and the source and contact research are not sufficiently organized. Doesn't that mean there's all kinds of discussion in the cabinet? You can say: fine, thought must be free, discussion must be possible. But doesn't that mean that the measures are now very unclear for people? A full IKEA, but the catering industry needs to stay closed. No one can tie a rope to it anymore. What does Mr Dijkhoff think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u69	I don't know about the latter. I think the criteria are still clear. It's okay that there's an internal difference of opinion. It is a bit like in the group: you can change all the arguments, you can strongly disagree with each other and have discussions, but at the end you take a position as a group. When you go outside, you all share the group's point of view; then you don't put your own note or plea in the newspaper, so you can list it and say it at home: you see, I said it nicely. But in a company so big, I don't know who does what exactly. I'd rather I didn't have to ask myself that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u70	I think it's very dangerous to put all kinds of conclusions on the hospitality note. I support Mr Dijkhoff in that. We cannot say now: hallelujah, we are out, the catering can open. What I find extremely interesting is the reasoning that is being built up. It is said that there are a lot of infections in the home. When I think about that, I think that's interesting. What would happen if the past catering industry was given more room under controlled conditions? That may mean that we would be able to receive even fewer people at home. I think it's important to think through that kind of thought. You can say that it hasn't been proven yet, but what disappoints me is that the note is dismissed as incomplete and that it is said that the RIVM didn't look at it. On the contrary, I would like RIVM to look at all these scenarios. In my opinion, we must continue to think about whether we are on the right path, especially when you see that the number of infections is not decreasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u71	If Mr Klaver means the hypothesis that the hospitality visits and social contacts have been moved to home, where they are less safe, you should first examine whether that is the case. Then you should focus in communication that that doesn't happen, that people don't look up all the edges of the rules to have at home in a more unsafe way than in the catering industry those social contacts and those dinners. You shouldn't do that at home. But that is no reason to say: if the infections are there, let them take place elsewhere. If, after research, it turns out that that hypothesis is correct, then you need to pursue a policy so that those infections don't happen anymore. I don't think it's true in the case of corona control that contamination in one place is less bad than contamination in another place; you have to make sure that those infections don't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u72	The latter is not entirely true, because we constantly make choices. We'll leave shops open because we're risk-weighting the number of infections there. They're in there, aren't they? There are also infections in schools, but with each other we make the political choice that education is very important. So we make that choice all the time. We now see the impact on the catering industry, for example. The same can be said for the cultural sector. I am not saying that we have to go that way, but it is scenarios that you have to go constantly and the cabinet constantly has to look at. If there's a note like that, you can say it's unbearable, but what's next? Then investigate it further and see what possibilities there might be. Because yes, I really like the support that is coming for the catering industry, but it is even more beautiful if as many entrepreneurs as possible can earn their own money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u73	Sure, you make choices in which things you allow and then add them up. So if you add up what you allow to find that at one point, namely the home visit, the rules are not being complied with, which would result in more contaminations, it is dangerous to swim in hypotheses, then you have to make policy to reduce that, because otherwise it would exceed what you could accept with your estimations of the package of infections. Because indeed, you can also close schools and do other things, but then it's about trading numbers and not saying: it's not a big deal if there are extra infections, as long as they take place in another place. I fully agree with the second thing Mr Klaver said. That's why I was asking about those field labs. I have heard the word too many times without seeing any result, and that is not good. This has to prove, validated with research, with facts, how to get into a theatre with quick tests and all kinds of other ways in a safer way, into a restaurant, into a football stadium. That is why, at a time when part of society is very vulnerable or susceptible and part of society has already been vaccinated or has just been able to demonstrate that they are corona-free, have an infrastructure and agreements on how to do so. Soon there'll be just........................................................................................................................................................................................................ I probably do; that costs money, but then you have more security before you receive someone, within the rules and not more than three, certainly not. But in a few months, it's gonna be even faster. Then someone says, "I'd be happy to pay a few more tens if I've been tested." Then we have to have agreements, then the government must have guided that, to say, okay, we accept it as some kind of proof that you were tested negative yesterday, or that you were vaccinated. Then you have to be able to do more with it, and slowly also open up that society. These next few weeks you should actually use to make those arrangements and prepare those scenarios. I fully agree with Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u74	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u75	We are indeed in complete agreement on that. That is where the cabinet has to take greater steps to ensure that this test society really gets there and that we can open society in that way. The point, therefore, that I interrupted Mr Dijkhoff, is that there must be constant reflection, including in a cabinet. I hope there are many more of these kinds of notes, unbearable but interesting. Let's look at that further, because the measure trail we're on doesn't get us where we need to be. The only reaction I heard from Mr Dijkhoff was: we simply need to follow the rules better. I also think it is important to check whether the measures we are taking are the most effective and whether we can perhaps do other things that are also economically less harmful. That question constantly keeps asking, just finishing these kind of unfinished notes to see if it's true or if it's complete nonsense. I hope that there are many more of these kinds of notes and that this is the way to think about them. My fear is, finally, that this is not happening, that we are in some kind of tube and that there is only one way and that is all that has been decided. I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u76	I agree. I don't think the writer of the note thinks, "What's happening to me now?" I don't want to disqualify them either; he probably thinks: yes hello, I had just started, I lay it out to check and it's suddenly on the street. That writer himself wouldn't have thought it was finished either. That's not disqualification from that person, it's disqualification from whoever leaks it. Then it's about the responsibility we have how we deal with it. So I very much agree with what Mr Klaver said about this. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like a reaction from the cabinet to the event plan, which also refers to the German model. Because if we can do more in June or July through a combination of rapid tests, vaccination and perhaps more, then they should start organizing business in February. If that space is there, then we're going to celebrate; that's how people are put together. Then you better make sure it's organized, that you can also guarantee that people are vaccinated or corona-free in the way I already indicated before they participate. And then you have to have a backstop that, if things are going very badly, what we all don't hope for is a guarantee under a canceled event, in the form of a loan, as they suggest, not a gift. I think that is a reasonable proposal and I am curious about the reaction of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. We also hear a lot of poignant stories about start-ups that are just outside everything. Who opened a catering store just before the corona crisis and didn't have any reference months to fall back on to get support. No NOW, no TVL; they're out of the boat. What can we do to help them, perhaps in the form of loans? I understand that interest-free seems to be difficult in Brussels, as if someone in Brussels is now concerned about this kind of mini-potential state aid in a crisis situation. I think there's bigger fish to fry, but still, if necessary, a low interest rate that passes the test so we can help them anyway. Because I do see attempts in the letter, but I do not see any measure that I can point to which they can actually make use as start-ups; I said that with all appreciation for what has been achieved. Mr President, I will conclude. It's gonna be another Christmas. Let's move on quickly and hope for better times. Let us not look up the edges, do not secretly invite more people and do not try to make more of them than is possible, because others are the victims. I hope that with the confidence that we are ready for rapid testing and vaccination, we will be able to enter the new year. I'd like to hear from the cabinet about the situation. Despite the fact that Christmas is the time for beautiful stories, I hope for a fair and realistic story and not an overly optimistic story that we cannot deliver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u78	Madam President. What the Netherlands needs now is a health minister with authority. Someone with vision, who cuts the buttons and doesn't have to waste time and energy fighting in the coalition or in his own party. Like with all those CDA prominents who anonymously are a bit cowardly of course tell De Telegraaf that it's not going to work out with Hugo. That they're going down the ravine with him. A fellow minister of his own CDA blamed him for 'bokito behavior'. Even within his own party, his authority is openly questioned. Minister De Jonge mentioned last week for the cameras, which he loved so much, the date of January 4th as the date when vaccination would start. We were supposed to get at least 1 million vaccines by the end of December. Yesterday there wasn't much left of that. The vaccines aren't coming until January and we're not getting a million, we're getting half a million vaccines. Meanwhile, half of the Netherlands thinks that we will start vaccination on January 4th and will not be released from the virus much later. What a mess, Madam President. Many people in the Netherlands are coronamoe. They're sick of it. They're sick and tired of the government's measures. The last thing the Netherlands needs now is yet another shot ahead of Minister De Jonge. The Netherlands doesn't want smooth talk. The Netherlands wants a perspective. In fact, the Netherlands craves a perspective and for clarity. Of course, it's not a good thing that the number of infections is increasing, but most people who are infected, fortunately, never see the hospital inside. The situation is, of course, serious, but we do have to tell the whole story. The number of hospital and ICU admissions is decreasing, especially since November. Today's cabinet letter states that the important signal value of 10 ic recordings per day will be reached at the beginning of January. I'm not saying that; that's what the cabinet says. That is a very different picture from yesterday's press conference, where Prime Minister Rutte threatened to introduce additional measures for Christmas. I ask the Prime Minister: why did you create such a one-sided image at the press conference yesterday? Your letter today is much more nuanced. Of course we have to be careful and of course it can go either way. But if you give too one-sided a picture at the press conference, the support for the measures will only be reduced. It's good news that the vaccines are finally coming. A lot of people can't wait to get one. But there are also a lot of people who shouldn't have any of it. So it must always remain a free choice and I am pleased that my motion, which states that there will never be a vaccination obligation and therefore no urge or coercion, has been adopted by the Chamber. I ask the Prime Minister to communicate clearly on this matter. People should also hear from your mouth that they will never and never be forced into vaccination, not even on a detour. When it comes to the people who do want to be vaccinated, there is a new dilemma surrounding the question: who first? The choice of the cabinet is now to start with the care workers. These heroes, who have been on the front line for a year, deserve that. I therefore wholeheartedly support this choice, but there are also many other people who belong to risk groups. For example, the 70-year-olds and over. A risk group, which is also unlucky to make excessive use of hospital care. Wouldn't it be helpful to treat that group with preference, if possible in terms of the number of vaccines? This would mean that the pressure on hospitals would decrease, that we would be able to scale down the measures, perhaps rather than normally, which would also bring our freedom and businesses back. At least our mailbox is packed with people asking when it's their turn. Many people are following this debate. I would therefore like to ask the Minister or the Prime Minister: be clear! Please indicate now, today, who, if they so wish, will be eligible for vaccination. Mr. Chairman. Scaling off regular care. Last week, the shocking news came that thousands of Dutch people might be walking around with a serious disease that has not yet been discovered, as the chairman of the Dutch Association for Pathology reported, because no diagnosis has been made by scaling down the care. It's about serious diseases like cancer. Research shows that the delays in the first corona wave have still not been overtaken. I want to know from the Cabinet how they're gonna solve this problem. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the catering industry. The day before yesterday I was present here in The Hague at two Black Monday events of catering entrepreneurs. The water isn't on their lips, they're drowning. It is a disgrace how the cabinet has dealt with the catering industry over the past year. Also yesterday during the press conference: not one word about the catering industry! The whole industry goes to the Philistines. It's killing families. Helpdesk employees report that entrepreneurs are thinking of suicide. The suffering is invisible. It can't be that the cabinet doesn't care, can it? And now there appears to be a secret note that only became public after the press saw him and got it, probably leaked from EZ, and the Chamber asked for it. Unlike RIVM, the note states that contamination cannot be linked to the catering industry and that it is quite conceivable that opening up the catering industry will lead to fewer infections. But Rutte pretends he didn't see it and it's laconically about it. And that, Madam President, is a shameful display. A piece that is beneficial for the catering industry is placed under the carpet, then leaked and then downplayed. You'll just be a catering entrepreneur. Mr. Chairman. What's in that note makes sense. The truth, too. When you close the catering business, people of course get together more often on coffee and drinks and there's no one there to point out the rules to them. So closing down the catering business is the dumbest thing you can do. So open up the catering, Mr. Prime Minister. Finally, Mr President. If the Prime Minister does not do so, for whatever reason: at least pay the fixed costs and personnel costs of the catering entrepreneurs by 100%! Otherwise, we won't have any hospitality left in this country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u79	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Bad news you see coming still doesn't feel right. I think a lot of people had that yesterday when they saw the press conference. I think that everyone has been preparing for holidays that would be different from normal for the past few months. But with the figures from the last few weeks, I also think that a lot of people have already felt that there was no relaxation. At the same time, I think a lot of people have the stomach for that. And yet we have to stick with each other, because it can only be that the virus is kept underneath because we are together, Mr Dijkhoff said it is sticking to the measures and also testing and the vaccine. Those are the three tracks we need to see. The reality is also very harsh for the catering industry. They've had hard months and hard weeks, and now they've got them too. That is why it is right that the emergency package should not be phased out, but that it should be developed, as it was presented this morning: billions more should be allocated to support in fixed costs and otherwise. When it comes to the field labs and the perspective, Mr Dijkhoff was already talking about them, I can see in the letter that those field labs will be there from January anyway. That's good, because that was linked to the status of the virus before. But I see there called culture, sport and events, and not the catering industry. Now the OMT opinion also contains all the necessary information about restaurants. Nevertheless, I ask the cabinet: are there not going to be field labs in the hospitality industry, for example by using rapid tests as soon as they are available? I miss that in the letter; please explain. The debate between Mr Asscher and Mr Dijkhoff, among others, was about Black Friday. At the end of the long letter of 74 pages I see something with a hashtag 'how then?'. The cabinet wants to make agreements with the retail sector, with trade associations, but also with municipalities to prevent the images we have seen around Black Friday. Can the cabinet, just for catering entrepreneurs who feel 'but why they do?', more than it says in that letter explaining what will happen in the context of that 'how then?' And what are the consequences in municipalities in which this image has occurred? Are Mayors going to maintain more? And what does the Cabinet do in this regard with regard to Christmas shopping? In the letter on the economic package you also see that what is now called the 'TONK' is being implemented, a temporary support for necessary costs. I believe that both my colleague Palland and I and Mr Asscher have raised questions in various debates about flex workers who need to be quarantined. It is now referred to in the letter, but it is also said that it is precisely those who lose income. Can the Minister for Social Affairs indicate how the TONK is going to lead people with a zero-hour contract and payrollers to actually be supported and not get in trouble when they have to go into quarantine? I think there's only one sentence in the letter. The vaccination plan is a lot of attention in the letter. That's good. When you read that letter, you think: so, that logistics is going to be a giant operation! Mr Dijkhoff already asked a number of questions about this, but I also received a great deal of attention when reading the letter. Because the Pfizer vaccine, which will be the first available in early January, has to be kept at -70°C and will only last for a few days. In this crisis, staff shortages have almost always been the bottleneck across the board, whether it is about care hotels, testing capacity, capacity in hospitals or on ic's. Is there enough staff available to put those vaccines in those five days? Because I understand that the letter says that vaccines will also be lost, but if this is going to be a huge bulk because of staff shortages, that is not to be explained to all those people who are waiting for it. I understand from the letter that part of it is used on people from the GGD. Then I think: but are those the people on the left side of a test street not taking a test because they are putting a vaccine there? Is the use of the vaccine at the expense of testing capacity? How is that prevented? Are those other people? I also read one sentence again about arborists. Are there massive numbers of workers used to vaccinate, so that there is staff capacity and that is not the bottleneck? I found in the letter somewhat worrying that about two thirds of the care staff do not yet know whether they want the vaccine or say they do not want it. Don't your logistics run a huge risk that if you write to people that they can come, it turns out at the end of the week that a lot of them didn't come and that those vaccines still have to be discarded? And is the vaccination strategy now, for example, setting up a register so that people can indicate that they want it? So that you can effectively plan and use the pizza boxes that are spoken of, at the end of that week? And so that all those vaccines are used as much as possible for people who want the vaccine as soon as possible? I would also like to hear about the corona courts, because that has now suddenly shifted to before Christmas. I think we would have liked to have heard about this first for the Social Affairs budget. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude, because unfortunately I am through my time with one final point. I think it is very good that the cabinet is spending money on young people, because it is precisely in the coming period that young people will suffer in part. The Dutch Youth Institute, which is also referred to in the letter, indicates that precisely activities in the field of sport and culture can help young people to comply more with measures. So you have twice a profit: it is good for the mental and physical condition, but it is also good for complying with the measures. However, during the press conference it seemed to be mainly about: 'in January via Cruyff Courts'. But what can happen to the money that is now being made available, already in the Christmas holidays locally for those children so that those useful, coronaproof activities are there to prevent it from going wrong? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u81	Thank you. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u82	It is not my custom to interfere in party matters of other parties. That's not my intention. I see Mr Heerma laughing now and maybe it's fun, but actually it's not. The border is a little bit when one CDA minister starts comparing the other with one monkey. I don't know if Mr. Heerma is smiling anymore. I certainly don't. And that is the Minister who has a huge portfolio. You can either agree with him or you can't. The Minister knows that I often disagree with him, but I've never compared him to a monkey, and I never will. And what isn't in the paper about Mr. De Jonge? When is that gonna end? That's my question. Because what you do with your party, you have to know for yourself, but it touches, it affects the functioning of this minister. I see that every day and I see it in policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u83	I laughed at Mr Wilders' question because after the first three words I realized it was a 'I-do-it-normal-not-but-I-go-it-now-do question'. Reality is next. The task facing this cabinet is enormous. I have already congratulated this Prime Minister and this Minister for Health. I think we should have deep respect for everything they've done over the past few months. Look at how the Netherlands has changed, what has been harnessed to test capacity and now again for that vaccination. I don't have a lot of anonymous sources calling for anything. That's in my personal history, too. I think, on the contrary, that incredibly good work has been done and that incredibly hard work has been done. I think I'd have fallen three times myself if I had that responsibility. This applies both to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for Health. They stand there, and they stand there. I think the Netherlands will be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u84	This is an interesting story, but not an answer to my question. You don't have your party in order. Your party leader is also Minister of Health. That's okay, and that's not up to me. Your party leader has had to do a lot of things in the past year, and there are a lot of things to do in the coming year, at least while he is still there. Think vaccines, test them. Whether he's doing that right or wrong is not the issue right now. But in the meantime, some CDAs are comparing him to a monkey, saying that we're going into the ravine with him, that it's not gonna work out with Hugo. That affects the functioning of this minister. You can say that it is not, but it is. Look at that example of those 1 million vaccines, which turns out to be half a million. Pfizer says he should have known by now. He's got something else on his mind. The man is stabbed in his own club with ten knives in his back by all... Well, I'm not even gonna name names. So again, what you're doing with the CDA is your business, but it affects the functioning of this minister in his struggle to tackle the coronavirus that you stick those knives in his back every day. So my question is, when is that gonna stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u85	I agree with one half of what Mr Wilders says more than with the other half. I've just indicated that I don't have much of anonymous resources calling for anything. That is also true from my personal history. That's what I experienced with my father in the 1990s. I can't do anything with that. But is Mr Wilders here to say that it affects its functioning? I think that's bullshit. I have just indicated how huge a lot of work has been done in recent months. It is Mr Wilders' role to say in the opposition here at every debate what did not go well. He never forgot that part. But in an incredible way, in my opinion, the Netherlands, the care, the society, everything has been rebuilt. This was led by this cabinet, by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. I think that when we see that later, we are going to look back very differently on everything that has been achieved, then now it is clear from the few easy sentences that Mr Wilders is throwing out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u86	I understand that it's annoying for you. You're just gonna stand there and have to defend this. I'm not saying you're sticking those knives in his back. But I have said many times that the Minister has dropped, and I am not alone in that. Think about the source and contact research, think about testing. I also said in a debate earlier that the Minister looked bad. During the entire period of the candidacy, he was sitting here white and white next to the prime minister in box K. You see it in a lot of ways. Once again, I do not want the Minister to do that, but you really have to come up with a better answer than you are doing now. Because you're not saying that anonymous sources were lying to De Telegraaf when it was written that those people said that to the newspaper? Probably right, unfortunately. And it affects the functioning of the minister. It's not like I'm gonna stand up for him and you're gonna waltz over it. They are your party mates in the cabinet; in trade-K is a minister who compares him to a monkey. I've been through a lot in Dutch politics, but I've never seen one minister compare one minister to another. Then the level has dropped very deeply. You can hardly expect a man like that to practice his profession, can you? What makes you say that? Are you gonna make up for that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u87	If Mr Wilders indicates that he is going to stand up for the Minister with these interruptions, I hope that he will not ever stand up for me. That is the type of support I am not waiting for, and it does not fit in with this debate either. But again, I do not agree with Mr Wilders. Because I don't have anything to do with anonymous sources calling out all sorts of things. And I have by no means suggested that journalists write that down, so Mr Wilders should not put that in my mouth either. What I do say is that after everything that has been done to keep the Dutch economy alive, there will be a lot of appreciation at the end of the song for the cabinet that has done a lot, and not for people who stand by the side screaming that nothing is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u88	Last question, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u89	But they are people of your party. That's not me, that's nobody here, that's people from your party. Once again, at the moment when a CDA executive is anonymously involved, I agree with you that that is cowardly and that no one has anything to do with it, but it has happened, because the newspaper will indeed not lie to another CDA executive compares with a monkey, then the end, you will agree with me, at the CDA very far-fetched.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u90	Mr Wilders' interruptions were aimed at indicating that it has an effect on the way this minister does his job. I'm far from it. I do not hear Mr Wilders repeat that here either. Then the last question he asks shows what the real reason for his interruptions was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u92	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague Heerma for his reaction to those last interruptions by Mr Wilders. Many people hoped to have a family dinner during the past few weeks or to be able to blow out with friends this year on 31 December. But it was hopeless against better knowledge, because the number of infections is increasing, as is the number of hospitalizations. Anyone who saw the images of bargain hunters in the Kalverstraat or the crowd in Magisch Maastricht knew: we are not doing a good service to our collective hope. It turned out to be vain hope. The persistent second wave is coming hard. With care workers who still have a high workload and with families who experience difficult times due to illness or deaths. However, the extension of the corona measures is also hard on entrepreneurs, especially those who are closed down by the government and have little turnover. And that is sometimes difficult to prove that catering, culture and events lead to large contamination sites. D66 therefore considers it more than logical that the cabinet has today announced new support measures. There will be a higher reduction in fixed charges and additional aid with retroactive effect, even for this quarter. In the new year, it remains possible for entrepreneurs to postpone paying taxes, so that as a hardworking SME, you don't have to take a deeper interest in your own assets. And this package of support does justice to the companies that make the greatest sacrifice in the fight against corona. However, I am concerned about their fate, if the current situation continues with considerable limitations. The cabinet must therefore keep a finger on the wrist, for example with the extra support via customization for zzp'ers and flex workers. Can the Minister explain what that customization is gonna look like? What will he do if municipalities fail to provide a solution for these people? I agree with Mr Dijkhoff's questions about start-ups. Because a government infusion is not a sustainable existence. The pub owner, the restaurant owner, the theater director need more. They want perspective on a responsible opening. I call on the Cabinet to stop black and white thinking, whether everything is open or everything is closed. We need to see what's smart and safe. Yesterday at the press conference and in the letter was pre-sorted on field labs from January: test gardens in a safe setting. The House of Representatives already asked for it this autumn, so that we can get more insight into how we can re-open the economy little by little, so that we can go back to a sports competition, a café or a full theatre. How many test gardens will start in January? How does the cabinet plan to scale up quickly after that? Mr. Chairman. Many entrepreneurs already have detailed plans on how they can safely open up with small measures, so do the restaurants. Why can't you do that now? That is what I am asking for in view of yesterday's leaked note from EZK. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In January, the vaccination campaign starts in the Netherlands. Minister De Jonge sometimes sketches that first vaccination a bit like a day of liberation on which the light is reached at the end of the tunnel. But he does paint a wrong picture, I think. Because that light is farther away than he suggests. Contrary to the information we received from the Minister last week, we are initially getting less vaccines than we thought and we are not starting vaccination on 4 January. This means that the expectations raised must be readjusted. What explanation does the Minister have for this state of affairs? Why didn't he know before that fewer vaccines are coming to the Netherlands? And more importantly, what options does he have to get extra deliveries this way? I agree with Mr Heerma's question on logistics: is it in order? Mr. Chairman. That vaccination strategy brings me to my main point. The cabinet's corona strategy aims to protect the most vulnerable and to keep the pressure on hospitals more manageable. If we manage to vaccinate the most vulnerable and those taking care of them in the course of 2021, what does that mean for the overall strategy? Do we then fall back on the previous choice of steering on group immunity? When is the time when enough people have been vaccinated and you can say: yes, now we can reverse corona measures? I'd like an explanation from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, young people and students. Today, the cabinet has not only strengthened and increased a support package for entrepreneurs, but also earmarked around €60 million for activities for young people. That is extremely important, because young people and students are having a hard time. This crisis also hits them hard. They don't get everything out of their education because a lot is happening online. Students have lost their jobs because of the closed catering industry. Many young people feel lonelier because of a lack of social life. In addition to the support released by the government and the municipalities, D66 proposes to offer a perspective on the gradual reopening of educational institutions, for example by combining rapid testing with distanceless education and by increasing the capacity of educational institutions by introducing mouth caps and splash screens in lecture halls and looking smartly at walkways in educational buildings, so that more students can return to them. I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u93	Nothing about opening the restaurant?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u94	Well, I asked when those field labs, those labs with events, culture and catering, start and why restaurants can't open yet. I'd like to hear an explanation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u95	I think a few days ago, last week, I saw Mr Jetten prominently on television and also in the newspaper with a story of 'listen, it is not to be explained that all shops in the shopping streets in the Netherlands are open, while the catering shops are closed?'; Kind of the story I kept, too. It really appealed to me. You really said at the time: the catering industry must be open. Okay, maybe with tasting, but it has to be. You are asking now, but may I understand your question in such a way that you are a representative of a government party simply demands this? That you put on big pants for television and in the newspaper and say 'it is not to be explained; those tests must begin, the catering industry must open partially and naturally responsible............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Or is that something you, as an important coalition party, demand from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u96	That is indeed what I propose, so to begin with those tests. The difference between Mr. Wilders and me... I think we're gonna say together: I can't explain that Black Friday to that bar owner or restaurant owner who's all closed up right now. I also visited a number of catering entrepreneurs who had made all kinds of adjustments during the summer so that they could now be open in a safe and responsible way. They've been closed for three months anyway. They're getting into their fortunes. The water is up to their lips. They're dealing with depressed personnel sitting at home. It's a very caring situation. The OMT has already advised the cabinet at the beginning of October: not only will you open everything or close everything, but see what is possible. In October, the House of Representatives adopted a motion to launch these experiments. They have not yet started, despite the fact that the Royal Horeca Netherlands and the SMEs that have experiments are ready. As far as I am concerned, they are indeed starting in January and we are not going to take months to do so. If we then see within a few weeks that reopening in a controlled setting does not lead to additional infections and that the thought we had turns out not to be right, we can also quickly open up more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u97	I want to go more and faster and further, but at least I am glad that Mr Jetten already wants to take a step here. I have one more question about this. You know as well as I do that you have said for television and in the newspaper that it has not only been prepared long ago, but that the people in the catering industry are craving to do it. Why wait till January? Why can't they start the experiments next Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u98	That seems to me to be a very good question to the Minister: why do we need those weeks now and can we not start earlier if that is already prepared from SMEs and others?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u99	I have the same question as Mr Wilders. I saw that happen on TV and in the paper, of course. Usually when Mr Jetten demands something, it is agreed in the coalition just before that. So you're counting on that to happen. Now it seems like a different scenario. This makes a lot of people who are in huge trouble, yet happy with what seems to be a dead sparrow. My question to Mr Jetten is: what are you going to do now? Whether you're demanding it and it's going to happen, it's very much the question of whether it's wise, but that's the impression you've created yourself, or maybe it's so fancy to say sorry to those catering entrepreneurs, who are already falling from one uncertainty to another. They've already seen a lockdown extend between the nose and the lips for a month. This morning they heard Van Dissel say: maybe it will be July. You're contributing to that now. It wasn't an announcement in the paper, so maybe I'm gonna ask a question about it. At least I didn't understand it that way, and neither did those catering companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u100	If you talk to catering entrepreneurs, there's a few things they'll give you. First of all, many catering entrepreneurs say: as a catering entrepreneur I prefer to know that I have to stay completely closed until 1 February and that I get a decent package of support, than that I have to live from press conference to press conference and every time I don't know how many weeks the closure will be extended. That's also a bit of clarity: knowing what you're up to. In addition, many catering entrepreneurs but also theatre directors or cinema directors, who are now allowed to leave only 30 men in their room: let me with smart walking routes, with splash screens, with reservations and all of them, allow more people in my theatre in a responsible way, so that I can earn a little money and not have to claim such a large amount of support from the government. I repeated that call last week, in the light of the experiences I had during all these work visits. I said: do not create that clarity by extending the closure for a while, but be clear about what those entrepreneurs should expect from the corona measures over the next few weeks and work with us on those test areas, to put those field labs in the scaffolding. I made that call last week. I heard yesterday at the press conference and read in the letter today that those field labs will be there in January. That's really good. The Chamber asked for this in a motion by VVD and D66 in October. The sooner we start with that and the sooner we can scale up afterwards, the more perspective that will give those entrepreneurs and also for all those who are now just looking forward to that evening so that we can continue these difficult times a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u101	I think that's too easy. Mr Jetten is now saying: I hear that from those catering entrepreneurs, and that is what I am getting across. Of course, there was no cabinet member who could have found out that the catering industry preferred to open up and that they wanted to experiment. That was indeed a sound that no one had reached yet. But it wasn't like that. The headline was: D66 will. You're suggesting it. You're defending it. We know that you are not an ordinary MP: you are the leader of a coalition party. Again, usually if you want to or suggest something, it's decided right before that. That's a trend. That's a pattern. I didn't just see that, everyone sees that. So when D66 says, "We want the catering industry to open up now, with experiments," then your expectations are created. Now you're making it sound like you were just trying to pass on an idea. No, it wasn't like that. So again, either you bite and force it, or, and I'd say that's chic, you say you thought you could do it, but you didn't. This is another dead sparrow for those catering entrepreneurs. It can't be both.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u102	That's bullshit. It is our job as representatives of the people to pick things up in society and fight for them. That's what you do when you're in a coalition in a coalition meeting, and that's what you do when you're in debates here. I insist that the cabinet should not only take restrictive measures, but also see how the perspective can be outlined. How do I see what is possible and how do I do it in a smart way? That is why I am once again pleading for these test areas; as far as I am concerned, they begin as soon as possible. I read in the paper that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs said, "Jetten talks about it, I'll take care of it." I'd say good luck! Then arrange it, because that chamber motion is from October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u103	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u104	Finally. Two things are happening here. Mr Jetten says 'it's bullshit' and gives me a lesson about what a people's representative should do and then he says 'it's the Secretary of State'. That's exactly what kills a little brother. That's totally wrong. We're not crazy! We can see that in the coalition there are all those who say: I am for the catering industry, they are not. You're doing it again: the Secretary of State didn't do it and we wanted it back in October. You sit in that coalition, you sit at the table on Monday and you go into the newspapers with the proposal: the pubs must open. There are a lot of catering entrepreneurs who may know it's too good to be true, but they still hope and believe that something is going to happen. I don't think that's fair. I don't think that's fair. I think you're making your own position too small by pretending you're just picking up noises in society as a people's representative. That's not a sound in society, it's a cry for help from the catering entrepreneurs and you have to deal with it carefully. That's why I'm not going to dance over that note. It's not fair. Dijkhoff was right about that. It is not fair to give false hope to people with sand in their eyes, and you do it yourself. I don't like that. I dare to defend here that unfortunately the catering industry cannot open, because the figures are bad. It's not funny. People get sick, people go to intensive care, people die. You can't say at the same time "I'm just passing on a little noise" and go in the paper and say, "It has to be open about D66."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u105	Mr Asscher and I are simply not in agreement on this either. I didn't say the pub could open tomorrow. I have just said: with the current figures, with the current infections, it is not real that the catering industry can open up again at Christmas. We should not offer that perspective to people, because that is giving false hope. That's what I said in those interviews. So what we need to do at the same time is to look with the catering companies to see how it can be done in a safe and responsible way. That's what I advocated. I don't think the catering industry should stay closed right now because of the high levels of contamination. We need to see how we can do it responsibly with them. If you do do do those test areas, you can also determine whether there are indeed infections in those safe test areas or whether it is not that bad and then you can see on that basis how to open up that economy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u106	I have a question about mouth caps. I see Mr Jetten walking up with his mouth cap neatly, after all, it is now law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u107	Yeah, for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u108	Yeah, me too. With great reluctance, I must say, but lex dura sed lex, so I do put it on. Mr Jetten is the leader of a liberal party, so I wonder if he thinks that there should have been a thorough investigation before we made those masks mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u109	We have waited a long time in the Netherlands for the advice of the mouth cap and now for the duty that will apply from this month on. This has also been done on the basis of experience in other countries and the advice of the World Health Organisation. Even though it is a very small contribution to reducing the spread of the virus, that small contribution can be useful, and that is why my group first supported the oral mask advice there, too, so that we do not have to expect entrepreneurs or others to play police officers and it is just for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u110	I understand that, but RIVM and the VWS Department have been saying for nine months that it has no effect. Later there were studies that said that it also has a negative effect on public health. Do you still think it is right that there should be an obligation to protect your mouth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u111	I stand by the advice of the World Health Organisation, which shows that experience in many countries shows that it can make a small contribution to reducing the number of infections. There are people who, for various reasons, cannot wear a mask. I hear a lot from people who have to use sign language: I can't wear that mouth cap, because I need that lip reading. We'll make an exception for that. That's what the law says. This also applies to people with lung problems who do not want to wear it. These are exceptions that we need to understand. But most people in the Netherlands are perfectly capable of fulfilling that duty and fortunately do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u112	I understand that, but of course it's about the effect. With the voluntary wearing of mouth caps 80% of the people already wore it. The difference between the voluntary wearing and the oral cap has not been investigated. If the studies show that it is a danger to public health, do you not think that the 20% extra was actually completely unnecessary and a little contrary to your liberal principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u113	From the start of the corona crisis we have to deal with a multitude of freedom-limiting measures. That is why I have already tabled a motion with Mr Van der Staaij in the beginning. We have to take a critical look at its proportionality every time, especially when it comes to the mouth caps. I myself have experienced in the supermarket that there are really unpleasant situations, because people have to go and talk to each other about that and maintain it. That is why the mayors also asked for a duty to be given so that it could be done better in practice. That is what we must listen to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u114	Mr Jetten is talking about a possible exception for people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons. Does Mr. Jetten have any ideas on how these people can prove that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u115	That's a very good question. I also get it back from a lot of people, especially from people who, because of the sign language, cannot wear that mask themselves or find it unpleasant when someone else wears it. They e-mail me that they're all day explaining why they don't have the mask on or why they don't want someone else to put it on. Maybe you have a solution for how that could be easy. I'm afraid I don't have one right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u116	Unfortunately, I don't have the solution either. I did buy a ticket for €5 plus €0,90 shipping costs that say: excluding oral cap duty. But there is no question at all: why not? I don't think that has any legal effect. That is why I asked Mr Jetten because this is a really difficult problem that many people are struggling with. I had hoped that Mr Jetten might know something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u117	I think it would be helpful for Mrs Sazias to ask this question. Many people are looking at this debate and perhaps they will hear for the first time that there are people who, for very good reasons, cannot wear that mask. I hope that will be more widely known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u118	Thank you, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u120	I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not going well, and that's worrying. It is worrying for everyone who works in care and actually has it too hard. It is worrying for all those people with vulnerable health who have to fear. It is also worrying for all those entrepreneurs who cannot undertake now. An image that comes to mind every time is that of the owner of my favourite Italian restaurant, where I picked up food last week. That was right after Black Friday. This entrepreneur is really doing everything in his power to get through this crisis as well as possible. He's not whining, he's got the takeout, he's started a shop in the store, and he's got a hell of a lot less sales. When you see how many people walk on the street, it hits you. Damn it, we all did this, didn't we? I think that we have reached a point in this crisis that is a great danger and that we also need to address it: the feeling that we do this together as a country that sometimes seems to fade away. And if I'm talking about Black Friday or IKEA or the Primark, that's nothing to the detriment of any store, but we all have to do this. On the note from the catering industry that it was about, I would not claim that it has now been proved that it can be opened. But the search we have to do with this sector and also with the cultural sector, which has been so close to other sectors for so long, is important to give them hope and perspective and to maintain that solidarity, that the price is not paid by a few. Mr. Chairman. It's a quack lockdown, you might say. It's just not fast enough. When you hear the briefing this morning, you're scared. It might take till July. July. That's the ultimate scenario, but for the time being, no prediction has been made. It's always been a bit off. July. This shows that the strategy we have now is not working, and that an appeal like yesterday's, 'let's stick to the measures better', however understandable, is not enough. Last week, my group wrote, or at least handed in, an own-initiative paper, in which we are talking about the importance of that test society. We've talked about that before. We are seeing more and more massive testing initiatives in countries. Not that you can open your society with that. At the moment there are a lot of infections, like in the Netherlands, you can use population tests to regain control of the virus, to at least, as we have had calculations made, make sure that we get back into safe water and that we can shorten the lockdown time. My question to the Minister is: does he want to make that kind of calculations? What could population tests do, so we can get the R down so we don't have to spend so long in that lockdown? Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with the support package that exists. It's necessary. I think there's zero discussion that the money should be there. We very much support that. Just for a second. The ease with which another 3.5 billion is put into a support package and that there is almost no discussion about it is also very worrying. We need to make sure that these entrepreneurs can take action again. And the testing is still out of order. Yes, there are enough tests for if you are ill or have complaints and you want to be tested quickly; then you can. But with the economic deployment of testing, and making it possible to re-open more sectors, we are not far enough. Not enough has been done. And if there's going to be a few tests in January, a few tests, that's nice, but it's too late and we need to go faster. The calculations have also been made by my group. The cabinet says very proudly: we're heading for 175.000 tests. That's not enough. If you want to make sure that you can open up society again with quick tests, then you shouldn't let people do a quick test once a month. You'll need two to three tests a week for all kinds of sectors. Soon you'll go to a million tests a day. That's a lot more than the cabinet's heading for right now. My concern is that, after this lockdown, as soon as we've beaten this part, we're gonna be out of order again and we're gonna go on like this. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the whole vaccination policy. I was really shocked when I read in the letter, on page 32, how we are now dealing with setting up the vaccination strategy. Look, I'm not gonna be an asshole if a pharmaceutical doesn't deliver a million shots, but 500,000. That's not something a minister has under control. It's about what's being delivered at what time. But we do have other things under control. Locations. Are there enough locations? Should we enable event builders to build new locations? Are there enough people to prick? How many people have BIG registration? How many of these people work in a nursing home, in a hospital? How many people are available to set these shots? I read: 'If, as indicated above, test sites are partly used for vaccination, this may have an impact on the test capacity of those sites.' Do I understand that we will have to choose: or mass testing, or massive vaccination? Let me be perfectly clear. I find that unacceptable. We have previously adopted a motion here saying: go train people now, so that we will have enough people to inoculate. I want the Minister's assurance that the vaccination programme does not need to be scaled down in the test policy, because that would really be disastrous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not going well! Instead of reducing the number of infections, it's rising again. We are very concerned about that. If we see what the cabinet is doing now and what was said at the press conference yesterday, then nothing more is happening at the moment. We had a road map. The thing is already in the trash and next year we need a new road map. But the idea behind it was that there would be perspective and there would be more predictability in the measures to be taken. And what do we see? The cabinet fails tremendously, precisely on these two points. Even if you listen to yesterday's press conference, you will hear that cabinet cannot or will not say how long this package will last. The cabinet can or does not want to say what level of contamination the figures must have fallen to if we are to be able to do more. Or the other way around: the cabinet also does not want to indicate what measures are currently being considered if the number of infections is to increase again. Mr. Chairman. This means that there is no perspective at all and no predictability at all. Now that the number of infections is failing, the scenario is that perhaps additional measures are needed rather than relaxation. And that would be very serious! And that while I get the idea that we're all in a bit of a position: well, it would be nice if we could get some more soon. But the opposite is as true as possible. I heard Gommers on TV yesterday saying that this might be the beginning of a third wave and we are very concerned about that. I would therefore like to hear from the cabinet how it weighs those words of Gommers. Is it also the government's assessment that this might be the beginning of a third wave? And if so, what does that mean? Mr. Chairman. Because government policy is so unclear and inimitable, we also see that more and more groups are fighting for their own interests. And I understand that, too. I understand that very well! The slogan with which the cabinet originally launched this corona approach was: only together we get corona underneath. But just that 'together' is so little left. And I understand that, too, because you can only do it together, if you get it together and if you wear it together. I don't see either, because who else knows that people can go to the hardware store and the IKEA. That doesn't seem to be a problem at all, but there's still nothing in the catering industry and in the theatres there can only be very limited things. When you talk about carrying together, we mainly see that there are companies, for example the supermarkets and the web stores, where things are going fantastic. Mega gains! But the people who work for those profits, employees and parcel delivery workers, see little of that. This raises the question again: what exactly is the strategy of this cabinet? And we've discussed this so many times. A time ago, a proposal from the SP was adopted that said: send on the number of infections. So that means: contain the virus instead of control it. But what do we see now? We're seeing an increase in the number of infections without any intervention. And that was said earlier by the cabinet that in the summer I heard Mr Segers, part of the coalition, yesterday in the programme M say that this was a painful lesson. But that still doesn't happen. We see that there is a section of three ministers from this cabinet that says: we may be able to intervene firmly with this so-called hammer, a short firm lockdown, but that probably makes no sense at all, because the test policy and the source and contact research are not in order to keep it under control afterwards. And we heard in the press conference yesterday, but it's also in the sections of the Catshuis that we got last night, that it's mainly about steering the ic occupation. Then there seems to be only one conclusion to be drawn, and that is that we are not trying to contain it at all. And we are very concerned about that. Mr. Chairman. Another point that shows that 'together we get corona under control' is far to look for, also in our own cabinet, is the note on the catering industry. It was about it a while ago, and I think it is very serious. I would particularly like to hear from the Prime Minister what he wants to say to all those people who work at such a catering establishment or who have such a catering establishment. Those people are indeed made happy with a dead sparrow. I also want to hear from him what this says about the quarrels that exist in this cabinet. They are quarrels, I think, because otherwise you will not selectively leak disinformation, something that I really think is very serious. Then the vaccine. I think the Health Minister attacked friend and enemy with the announcement that, if all goes well, vaccination could begin in the week of 4 January. But yesterday we heard that there is not a million vaccines coming but only half a million. Immediately thereafter, there was also a change in policy. Where it was said earlier that we are going to inoculate the most vulnerable people first, as was the advice of the Health Council, it was now said: no, we are going to inoculate the care staff first. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the pressing question must be asked here today: what does it have to do with the other? Is it the case, I ask, that the logistical problems lead to a change in that policy? Finally, Mr President, sport. I think it is very nice for our top athletes that there can be more, but we would also like to talk today about amateur sport. Then we think about football and hockey, the amateur sport outside. You can now see that sport is mainly seen as a problem. I would like to ask the cabinet: could sport not also be part of the solution? Of course, we don't have to do anything extra to give the virus an extra chance, that's absolutely not. But if we all keep moving and staying fit, doesn't that really save a lot, and can't that be a huge weapon against that virus? What does the Cabinet see of opportunities in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u124	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I was watching the press conference and wondering what the message of the cabinet was. I won't pretend it's easy to stand there every time. But this was a complicated one, because actually the message was: it's bad, and we're not doing anything. That's been tried before, and it didn't usually work out so well. I'm afraid that's the case now. Things are going bad, and we're not doing anything, and maybe we'll get better in a couple of weeks. But there are consequences. This has consequences because there is a great deal of demand for care workers who are still tired. Time had portrayed them as Person of the Year. You may have seen the picture: you can see the stripes of the masks, but you can especially see the looks of caregivers who have seen a lot of grief. We're gonna keep doing that appeal, and if you don't do something right now, you know that's gonna go on for weeks, months. It also has very big consequences for the people who get sick themselves. In the meantime, we all know too many examples of people suffering long-term consequences, or who have lost someone. It has huge consequences for delaying ordinary care for other people. That's just as profound, just as intense. It was one of the cabinet's goals to prevent that, but by doing nothing now, you accept that it will remain so. One has a huge impact on the lives of people who do not have to deal with the disease, but who have to deal with the economic consequences. Then it becomes a sort of Groundhog Day: every time the numbers, the messages, but nothing changes. Why would we even accept that? Ultimately, it is a choice of the cabinet to do so, and also a responsibility. That choice has consequences. I think it has to be different, and it can be different. That's what we should be talking about. For example, why didn't the Cabinet ask the Outbreak Management Team what would be needed if you wanted to reduce the number of infections more quickly? We have been asked: if we relax this and tie it up, what will happen? But has there been any discussion as to the possibility of intervening and avoiding all this misery now that things are going wrong? Have you been asked to do that? That is also a wish of this Chamber; Mrs Marijnissen called it. That is a proposal from her and me together: make sure you go to as little contamination as possible, because then you don't have that playing out against each other from sectors, and there is a safe opening of both catering and theatres and events. The cabinet said people are getting tired of it. But it is also the despair of not understanding what consideration is being made. I think you should always be open to these considerations, so I'm gonna ask the Cabinet, too. But if it was an intelligent lockdown in March, how do you characterize the two-week closing of the library and the crowds with Black Friday? Then how do you qualify the argument among yourselves, in the vein of: yes but, you would do something about it? Eventually, the cabinet is responsible, isn't it? Come on, guys. If the OMT now says he's worried and you know that next week people are gonna do their Christmas shopping, what's the government gonna do to avoid another peak? You're responsible for that. Along with others, I'm sure, but you're responsible. You're not an amateur skating coach, you're the cabinet in a major crisis. Mr. Chairman. That incomprehensible stings, it hurts; it has already been mentioned by many colleagues. I found the example of the bar boss who had put a sign with 'IKEA' above the door and said that it was because people could go in there and if necessary he had a ballbox for the visitors, hilarious if it wasn't so sad. I really don't want to be part of the delinquency of one sector against another. But more is needed to bring those entrepreneurs, those theatre makers, into the choices that are being made. For as it is now, we have heard Van Dissel, those sectors are simply sacrificed, indefinitely, by not doing anything about these infections now, by saying that it takes until January, until February, until everyone is vaccinated. That's not fair. Should I keep going? I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u126	Yes. Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u127	I hear Mr Asscher saying that this cabinet is not doing anything right now. I understand from his words that he would prefer stricter measures. Then I am very curious to see what Mr Asscher sees in front of him and what measures he would be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u128	I would like to return to that at the end of my speech. Maybe we can move the interruption to that moment? Because there's also a bit of a cliffhanger in my speech. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u129	Okay. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u130	I wanted to talk about the impact on the economy. We got a new letter about that. I am glad that the support package is not being reduced, that it is not being cut off, but that it is being extended. I think that's wise. But I am curious whether it is enough now, especially the compensation for the fixed costs. Minister Wiebes said that you should appeal to others in the chain. But also that brewer, also that landlord is in pain. So I would like to ask the cabinet whether there should be a higher compensation. Second. In the summer we made agreements on a job guarantee; help people whose work is lost to another job. I don't hear enough about that. Can we now agree that this will happen from January 1st? Third. We've argued for crisis jobs. They're called corona lanes now. You have to use that now, and there are great examples to think of. Offer municipalities to employ people as boa, for example to keep the shopping streets quiet and safe. Pay that and get people a job with that. Offer students who have lost their jobs to train children who have fallen behind. Pay them for that. Take people who are going to help with the vaccination. In fact, I share the concern of Klaver and Jetten: if we are going to vaccinate later, there must be no personnel problem that will put the tests under pressure again. So take advantage of these opportunities and get on with those crisis jobs, just to help people. Finally, Mr President. I understand that the cabinet is tired, but I find it incredibly unbelievable myself, I'm looking for a good word, but I'm not ready for that right now... I don't think it's a face of argument in the cabinet, that there's an anonymous screaming about each other, that people are walking to the newspaper to say 'I'm standing up for the catering industry'. I think that Jetten was guilty of this and I have just addressed him to him, but I would like to speak to the cabinet more about it. I'm really not okay with that. I would ask the Cabinet not to treat this as a coalition problem. But work together this is also an offer with the Labour Party and other opposition parties to ensure better strategies. That means that if we ask the OMT to come up with another advice on how to bring it down faster, I am prepared to support it. Because then you get perspective, then you can build a strategy with a combination of testing, vaccination and better compliance. I did not see the cabinet working on the motion from us and D66 to help the schools better, while the infections are still going around. I didn't see the cabinet do anything about Marijnissen's and me's motion to send in on the number of infections. I'd like to offer to help. This is a national crisis. I think there are major majorities to be found in this Chamber to say: please let's get the Netherlands out of that nightmare faster rather than an endless Groundhog Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u131	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. Then I give... Oh, Mrs. Sazias. You just said you had a cliff hanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u132	Yeah, that's what I was curious about. I would simply like to hear specific measures from Mr Asscher. If you were Minister, if the cabinet is indeed going to cooperate with the opposition, what measures would you like to take? You compare Black Friday and the shop opening with the catering industry. Do you want a hard lockdown? Do the shops have to close before Christmas? What would you like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u133	One. I would very much like to see people calculate what it would yield if you limit the possibilities of this kind of extreme shopping behavior further with closing times, with maxima, if you offer enforcers to do so. Two. Together with D66 I have proposed helping the schools and, for example, introducing a much more predictable regime in German terms. When can the school be open and when should it close? How can children receive safe lessons? How can you help teachers? I can't see what's been done with that. I'm so sorry about that. Three. I think that when it comes to the combination of measures, it is much better, for example, to appeal to the way Merkel did yesterday if I am not mistaken. You say, "Now we're all staying at home for three weeks and we're trying to reap the benefits of that" instead of saying, "It's your behavior" with a bit of a laconic attitude. I would much rather see you all try to make a contribution, that you appeal to it and that you say: at that time we do not all go to the shop, to the construction market and to the Kalverstraat or to the similar street in Mr Dijkhoff's residence. But you might be able to open up sooner. Then you can build up test capacity. Then you can get the source and contact research in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u134	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u135	Madam President. It's the dark days before Christmas, and it's like extra dark. I found it very oppressive how the Prime Minister recalled the 10,000 empty places. These are the official figures, so in reality there are many more. It's about a larger number of people we miss, who are no longer among us. That's how oppressive it is, that's how dark it is at this time. It's like it's extra dark right now. It's also the time when we look for the light. Christmas was once a solstice party. In the Christian tradition to which I belong, it is the feast of the coming of the Light of the world, Jesus. We're all looking forward to the light at the end of the tunnel. It seems extra dark and we yearn extra for the light. I liked the recognition of the grief, the recognition of the difficult time and the recognition of the darkness of this time. We long for the light, but until then, until it comes, we'll have to do it with each other and we'll have to get it from each other. In that light, I liked the launch of the campaign A small gesture. We're gonna have to look out for each other. Sometimes with a very simple gesture, a candle, a meal, whatever gesture, we will have to go to someone in our area and let them know that they are not alone. We can just start with that ourselves, with someone in our own environment. I thought that was a very nice kickoff. I also liked the fact that there was special attention for young people. Colleague Heerma also recalled this; he referred to it. I agree, and I am very curious to see how that effect will take place. How will this be worked out with young people? When it comes to perspective, that is what we need: clarity. I am going to say it a little more friendly than Mr Marijnissen, but in reality it is about the same thing. That road map should bring peace. The Prime Minister said that I found this a truly difficult moment in the press conference. 'Maybe I will be back here in two weeks' time, but I do not know exactly yet. And what exactly I'm going to say, I don't know about that either." That is exactly what we had the roadmap for, so that we would get rest, predictability and know at what stage what measures are being taken. I thought that was complicated. My question is: can we get back to the rest of the road map, can we land there somewhere? It's about the perspective, about the perspective. When we think about our behavior, about vaccination, about testing, that's the way out, the light we see at the end of the tunnel. But how do we get there and how do we get there? That is where we really need the leadership of the cabinet. When it comes to perspective, I am very pleased with the support package presented today. I agree with Mr Dijkhoff's question about start-ups. That's a bone in the throat for me, too. I know it's very complicated to reach that group well. But people who have started at a time when you really couldn't know about a risk called corona and now are in trouble, I do care. I therefore agree with Mr Dijkhoff's question as to whether there is any possibility of tailor-made work there. My group welcomes the 130 million made available to the cabinet through special assistance for people in difficulty. There's one group I call special. It always leads to a little chuckle when I'm talking about prostitution. I like the fact that people who are at risk of falling between shore and ship are covered by this. It's a sector that can be stolen from me, but it's people who care more about me. People who work there are extra vulnerable. If they are also helped in this way, I am very happy with that. What I've missed is the social work companies. They weren't mentioned in today's cabinet letter. Support for next year is still unclear. Can the Cabinet undertake to consider what is needed in good consultation with the sector? Then the pilot projects or the field labs. The cabinet will carry out eight practical tests in the event industry from January onwards. Sport is mentioned there and events are mentioned there. I agree with Mr Heerma's question about the catering industry. That's what it's been about. I would like to ask whether social activities can be added to this. That can also be very small-scale. That could be a single activity. I am thinking, for example, of a neighbourhood centre where more than 30 people come together or a church. These are also very important places for people in society. Could that be such a field lab, such a pilot project? With regard to vaccination, there will be an opinion or on the basis of the advice of the Health Council, the government has determined the strategy and also the prioritisation. It's about the care staff and the most vulnerable. It is not entirely clear to me what framework of consideration has been used here. At least I'm not reading that in the letter. Could we clarify this a little bit? Finally, Madam President. If there are people out there who need support, a gesture that is a small gesture or a big gesture that is people in care. Worrying absenteeism. Colleague Asscher just described the Persons of the Year, the people in the care, very visual. They were indeed on the front of Time with a stripe on their faces. We've seen the photo reports. They stand in front of it and they stand in front of it, but in the meantime they are in danger of succumbing. My question to the Minister for Medical Care is: what are we doing to help them now, not only before Christmas, but also after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u136	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are dealing with worrying figures and little perspective at the end of the measures. It remains necessary to reduce the pressure on care, because it is still very high there. It is also important to be critical of what other values are at stake, such as, for example, the drama of the catering industry, which we are often discussing today, but also the well-being of young people and students, which has already been mentioned. We therefore also support the cabinet in launching these small local pilot projects to see what could be possible in these different sectors. Many have already added other types of pilot projects. We are also curious whether there are opportunities to do this type of pilot project, for example in vocational education and higher education, because there too they crave a little more breath and want to get rid of the many online teaching hours. I'm also curious to see what we can do for them. Mr. Chairman. This week, the Chamber is dedicated to what the Prime Minister himself called the two biggest crises of his career: the nitrogen crisis and the corona crisis. The Animal Party has often noted here that both crises have to do with the way man treats animals and nature. Last week, during the debate on the VWS budget, I asked the Minister for Medical Care a simple question. Who can we hold politically responsible if a new infectious disease which is dangerous to humans arises in the Dutch livestock sector? Earlier, my colleague Ouwehand asked the same question to the Minister for Agriculture. The answer turned out to be less simple. That is why I am asking this question again today. This time to the Prime Minister, as Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Not to check that everyone is giving the right answer, but to prevent a new infectious disease that is dangerous to humans from pointing ministers at each other. We've seen this in the Q fever, and we'll see that again in the supplemental affair. We really want to avoid that in the future. So I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to exactly the same question. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point. On 20 May this year, my party asked the cabinet to do more to improve basic health in order to better protect vulnerable people in the long term and to relieve the burden of care. In the meantime, we are seven months ahead and we must conclude that the cabinet has gone no further than an additional information campaign. Unfortunately, Minister De Jonge's commitment to inform the Chamber this week about the extra commitment to prevention was not met. I didn't see any reason why. I'm curious to hear the reason. The subject has been moved on to another letter. I wonder why. Mr. Chairman. Then move on to another worrying point. Yesterday it became known that one in four severely ill corona patients was infected with the aspergillus fungus. Half of the corona patients on the ic who develop the fungal infection die. Half, Mr. Chairman. The fungal infection is very difficult to treat, because there are variants that have become resistant to the medicine. For the cause, agriculture must also be looked at. Because this fungus is found on our fields. Fight farmers who are used with almost exactly the same fungal pesticides as those used in the hospital. The excessive use of these pesticides in agriculture makes the fungus increasingly insensitive and ultimately resistant to the same pesticides. About 15% of patients with fungal infection have to do with a resistant fungal variant that is virtually untreatable. The odds of such a patient dying are 86%. Already in 2010, the Party for Animals asked questions about fungal resistance in hospitals. In 2013, a motion of the Party for Animals was adopted to remove five types of fungal pesticides for agriculture from the market. Because if agriculture no longer uses these substances, the risk of resistance will be reduced and hospitals will be better treated with the same fungal infection. It's seven years later. The motion has not been carried out. Three of these resources are still on the market. The corona measures are there to protect vulnerable people and relieve the burden of care. If we want to reduce the mortality rate among corona patients, then these funds for agriculture must be withdrawn from the market now in order to stop the development of resistance now. I would also like to know whether the Minister is prepared to proceed fully with that 2013 motion as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. A brief and final question. It was previously promised that more information would be provided in autumn on the possible link between air pollution and the serious course of corona contamination. It's almost Christmas now, autumn is over, and we're curious to see where this information is going. We are very much looking for it and waiting for more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u138	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr. Chairman. Just a few more weeks and then it's Christmas. A Christmas party that's painfully different this year than usual. But luckily, the deepest core of Christmas remains the same. It is the remembrance of the coming of Jesus Christ to this world; light in darkness. The period in which we live there is called advent in the Christian tradition. A period of reflection, of expectation and of desire. According to the German philosopher Timo Reuter you could also characterize corona time as a period of waiting. We all long for the return to the whole ordinary, normal life. The worst thing, however, is, according to Reuter, that no one knows exactly when and how it all ends. A test society, a drug, a vaccine? The corona crisis has made it clear that, with all our great scientific, technological and economic potential, we are very small people. Perhaps it would be a good idea to reflect on that during this advent period. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has often called for attention to be paid to the impact of corona measures on people's well-being. Today the action #a small gesture has started, to combat loneliness. With that hashtag small gestures get big consequences. It's shared on social media. The SGP strongly supports this. Mr. Chairman. The SGP also welcomes the youth package of State Secretary Blokhuis, giving young people more opportunities for activities and meetings that are coronaproof. Is the cabinet prepared to go into further discussions with municipalities to find out exactly what they need? Can the scope given to mayors by the Corona Act to make exceptions to the corona measures also be used for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. Then the hustle and bustle in the mall. In the past period we saw great hustle and bustle in shopping malls and inner cities. A repeat of that seems the SGP really undesirable. My question to the cabinet is how it looks at the call of the FNV to close shops on Christmas and Sundays unsuspectingly, I would say to avoid crowds and better protect staff. Mr. Chairman. I read that the Cabinet is working on a central registration system for the corona vaccinations. Of course we understand that this is necessary to know how high the vaccination rate is. At the same time, I understand the people who are wondering who has access to this information. I would very much like an explanation of that. Mr. Chairman. Then the masks. As a SGP, we are not against mouth caps but against the obligation to protect our mouths. That had to do with the legal stuff around it. I hear people are denied access to shops because they can't wear a mask for medical reasons. I really don't think that's possible. How does the Minister ensure that everyone in the Netherlands might have helped that interruption by Mrs Sazias, and in particular enforcers and shopkeepers, know that it is enough just to show that exception card? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Christmas package of 3.7 billion from the economic troika for entrepreneurial Netherlands. There are many nice points in it, but as so often with such a Christmas package there are also a few things in it that you think: where were they in the warehouse to dust? Anyway, then the contents. First of all, the perspective for entrepreneurs. I call for attention to be paid to catering companies with a social function. The rest of the catering industry has already been fully appointed by other colleagues. My question is whether the cabinet has given sufficient attention to these social catering companies when they close down the catering industry. I'm also thinking about the travel business. He's had a very tough year. Another year of this kind is disastrous for many entrepreneurs, but it seems realistic. My question is: what steps is the Minister taking to meet this sector? Mr. Chairman. It is good that the coach companies are now on the radar of the cabinet and were explicitly mentioned in the press conference. I've asked for that very, very, very often. The fee rate in the TVL is going up a little bit. But for the coach sector this should be increased to at least 42%. My question is, once again, is the Minister prepared to do so? Because in the event of a 40% loss of turnover, I think they all have more than that amount, as in the example in the letter, an average touring car company will receive only €450 extra this quarter. If you see that park with buses, you just know that's not enough. Let me be very clear: wipes before bleeding are not included in a Christmas package. My question is: how is the Minister going to ensure that there is genuinely targeted support for the coach sector? That's possible, because that's what happens for the fairground and the brown fleet. So it can also be done for the coach sector. Finally, Mr President, the extension of the postponement of tax payments. The deadline for tax deferral for economic operators shall be extended until 1 April. That seems nice, but it is expected that the restrictions will still be present after that. My question is: shouldn't you just extend this deadline right now until 1 July, so that we really give entrepreneurs a breather and after Christmas they just have six months ahead of them in which to prepare for what comes next? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u140	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u141	I'm a little taller than Mr Stoffer, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u142	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u143	You always know everything better than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u144	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u145	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Prime Minister always pointed his finger at the neighbouring countries to justify their own failure, rather than thinking: what are we doing in the Netherlands not good enough? I have the impression that the cabinet is trying to bake a cake with a recipe that doesn't work well enough. The strict measures have not led to the control of the coronavirus. There are still 22 ic recordings compared to a signal value of 10 and 123 hospital admissions compared to a signal value of 40, and the reproduction number is still above 1. You'd have to scratch behind the ears a little bit more. Wouldn't it be wise for the cabinet to ask itself what's wrong with the recipe? Mr. Chairman. One explanation is perhaps that the Kalverstraat, the Intratuin, the IKEA and the Lijnbaan have now become a kind of corona-walk-in-locations. When the Christmas holidays start and the winter sales start, in combination with boredom at home, we know what's going to happen. The offer '1+1 free' then applies to the number of corona infections and not to the items in the shop. Mr. Chairman. I know a lot of people who do their best. They're coronamoe and they'll skip the holidays just as sweetly, as soon as they can get back to normal among the people, as long as they can have coffee together again. Many Dutch catch those blows and are lonely. Some of those blows are unnecessary. The catering industry is on the ic on a drip state aid infusion and is artificially kept alive. Meanwhile, it seems like the retail trade is celebrating. Mr. Chairman. The closure of the catering industry has not led to the control of the coronavirus. Nevertheless, the cabinet stands firm in order to close down the catering industry hermetically. I think that's really outrageous. How can you convince the inhabitants of the Netherlands that the cabinet wants to prevent clusters in the catering industry, but allows them to be large-scale in the shopping streets? With the right anticorona measures, a number of colleagues spoke about this. A large part of the catering industry can simply open up. This certainly applies to the dayhoreca, where no alcohol is given and where the corona rules are taken into account. I would ask the Cabinet to do something about this in the near future. Mr. Chairman. As usual, there is a piece on communication in my contribution. Because what would be a corona debate without us helping Hugo de Jonge with the communication strategy? And honestly, there was a time when I thought the minister subconsciously miscommunicated, that he accidentally sent society into the forest by raising false expectations about the corona app, the emergency law, the testing policy, and the source and contact research, and that he could really do better. Each Corona debate here concluded that it had to be better, that it was not in order. Do not promise too much and take into account things that work differently, especially because there is a high degree of uncertainty. You usually learn from your mistakes. But yet another misfit is about the vaccine. Even before a single vaccination has taken place, the confusion is complete. There was a lot of fuss about the most important cases. The date of 4 January, which Hugo de Jonge communicated, was immediately contested by experts and the 1 million vaccines promised before the end of the year will be 500,000 because he does not get them. It seems that Hugo de Jonge deliberately wants to create unrest, deliberately wants to communicate unclearly. Speaking of the vaccine, I am pleased that the DENK motion has been adopted, which states that there will be no direct or indirect vaccination obligation. A lot of people are hungry for the vaccine and a lot of citizens want to be vaccinated, but there are also citizens who do not want to be vaccinated. It's important that they can choose for themselves. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the support package. Once again, 3.7 billion will be released to the most affected sectors. That's more than right, because the crisis has cut in hard and the fat on the bones is pretty good. For the economy, trust is essential. This confidence is not good, not only because of Corona, but also because of the way in which the cabinet makes its choices and communicates about the support measures. It is simply not for restaurant operators to explain that they are closed, while the shopping streets are flooded and also allowed to make additional advertising. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he explains this to all those catering entrepreneurs who see their life's work ruined. Mr. Chairman. We see where it really hurts: the catering industry, the event sector, the culture sector, the taxis and public transport. They show their cry for help in every way possible in the direction of politics The Hague: on TV, on the Malieveld, everywhere. It is good that these companies are supported. There are concerns. With 100% turnover loss, the Fixed Charge Meeting is set at 70%. That still means 30% interne, every month. How long are they gonna last? When does the cabinet say: 100% of the fixed costs will also be reimbursed if 100% of the turnover is lost? Mr. Chairman. Then the starters. They are not sufficiently regulated. In the spring we had the arrangement for flex workers, the TOFA. It has now been abolished. The Minister for Social Affairs has said that too few people have taken advantage of it. But actually something should come back for that, such as a temporary bridging scheme for starters. Mr. Chairman. Then the partner test at the Tozo. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats continues to argue that it should be deleted. It is not primarily about what is fair on paper, but about what is effective. Finally, I would like to repeat the clear guarantee that the aid packages will not be blocked until 1 July 2021 and actually beyond. I am considering a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u146	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's almost Christmas and we'd all like nothing more than to sit at the table with all our children and grandchildren, but unfortunately the rising figures show that that's just not possible right now. There is also a period after Christmas and we also have old and new. It is worrying that research shows that more than a quarter of Dutch people are going to celebrate Christmas with more than three people. How do we get to these people the seriousness of the case on the retina? Fortunately, most people are sticking to the measures, but no matter how understandable it is that people are coronamoe, we really need to stick to it. I found it really shocking to hear during the technical briefing this morning how often caregivers are called names and aggressively treated. Even if we are going to vaccinate in January, we must prevent people from thinking that Tuesday is crazy, because even then it will take months to get the lock off. Homework is already happening much less than during the first wave. I really need a little bit of a tooth with that. That is what we discussed in the previous debate. The letter doesn't say anything about that. What is the Minister going to do, really do, to appeal to the employers? That's what I asked you last time. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the vaccination strategy. How many vaccines can we actually have at our disposal? Which target group is suitable for which vaccine? How can it be that they have already started vaccination in the UK? Do they have a different strategy? Do they know more than we do? We're about to get 500,000 vaccines. That would actually be $1 million, but there's $500,000. Then you have to vaccinate the Pfizer vaccine twice more. So 500,000 isn't even enough to vaccinate all the care workers. And then there is another 20% possible spill-off. 20% is a fifth part. That's a hell of a lot. How can we get that percentage down? Mr. Chairman. We can agree with the priority list in the letter: first the care workers who work with vulnerable people and then people who live in a nursing home or in an institution. 50PLUS also wants to draw attention to the volunteers who work in the care, because they are often also older people. But they are the ones who support care in nursing homes and who often help on, for example, daily spending. We really can't miss those volunteers. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the duty of the mouth cap and, in particular, those who cannot wear it for medical reasons. There's a lot of uncertainty about that. We really don't think it's possible for people to have to submit their private medical records in a garden center or in a grocery store or at a boa. How can a boa judge your medical records? He doesn't have medical education. Last week, a man who showed his medical records to a conductor was turned off the train. I've already shown you a card that I ordered over the Internet. You don't have to fill anything out for that. You give your name and you pay. You can now also print a ticket at Vilans. Anyone can do that. You don't have to have a medical disability for that at all. If you just don't feel like wearing a mouth cap, you just print out one of those cards. I understand that it is difficult and that the general practitioners are difficult, but the Minister really can't let it go as it is now and send people with their private medical records out on the street while others can't judge it. The Minister has to come up with something. I can't wait to see what he's gonna do. He just has to do that. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the aid measures. Support at the current level cannot prevent a tighter financial burden on entrepreneurs and sectors, a heavy debt burden and the weakening of pension provisions. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Today's supplementary package must provide relief. Our pressing question is whether this is really enough. Does this not increase the level of debt for entrepreneurs? At the heart of our question is: what additional support do entrepreneurs and workers receive who have to earn a large part of their annual turnover during the holidays, but cannot do so because they are permanently locked up? It is precisely now, financially against the wall and with a closed company, that around 60% of entrepreneurs are also faced with the recovery of previously over-calculated NOW wage subsidies. We believe that the combination of liquidation of previous aid and ongoing aid should not turn a blind eye to entrepreneurs. We ask whether it is an option to postpone that liquidation. Good that among other things the motion of 50PLUS has led to the Temporary Support Necessary Costs, the TONK, of SZW, for people who are now outside all regulations. It's a good thing this arrangement is finally coming. But can municipalities still have this many labour-intensive customization? How many people are expected to be helped with this? Does the scheme have retroactive effect? Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of discussion about the catering business versus the store openings. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, we would nevertheless like to see a possible relaxation in the near future for coronaproof restaurants. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the home and homeless. They've been on the streets more than once in the last few months. Doctors and support organisations report that they have been unable to reach a large number of clients for months. Can the Prime Minister at least ensure that all the homeless receive care until the end of this covidwinter, so that it is possible to provide adequate care and assistance? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u148	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u149	Mr. Chairman. We are in a social, cultural, economic and medical crisis, not because of the corona virus, but because of the wrong measures taken by this cabinet. Slowly we lose our freedom. Our companies are going bankrupt. The pubs and restaurants close the doors. The carnival will cease to exist. And our prime minister is laughing that we're doing it together. But we're not doing anything together. The people who impose these corona measures don't notice anything about corona. They just get their salary of €10,000 a month and don't lie awake because their life's work is ruined by a cabinet that cut down the number of intensive care beds from 2,200 to 1,100 beds and several hospitals, a cabinet that sent a plane full of medical devices to Chinese Wuhan in February. When the coronavirus suddenly came to the Netherlands, we had no more mouth caps, no more gloves, nothing at all. A large number of elderly people in nursing homes may have died from these incredible blunders. Government failure doesn't stop there. We then got an unreliable corona app that wrongly quarantines entire tribes for ten days. The source and contact research failed due to a shortage of people and the scaling up of the test capacity went horribly slowly. Despite the fact that the World Health Organization advised to keep 1 meter away, the VWS Ministry opted for 1.5 meters, without scientific justification but with catastrophic consequences for Dutch industry. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the PCR test is now under attack worldwide. The retreat paper that has been filed speaks volumes. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. If the PCR test is referred to the trash, the base will be removed from all corona measures. I wonder how the Minister is preparing for this. How does the Minister view the fact that the PCR test is also an integral part of the test protocol in the development of the vaccine? Mr. Chairman. The oral cap is symptomatic of this coronakabinet. For nine months, RIVM and the VWS Ministry argued that mouth caps do not work. With the emergency law in hand, they introduced an obligation to protect their mouth as from 1 December. Now the whole of the Netherlands is running with an unwashed, inactive mouth cap, which is also harmful to public health. The mouth cover as a symbol for people who want to show that they are in, that they are good, even though they know it's bullshit. It is absolutely appalling that the Minister did not even examine the difference between the voluntary wearing of a mask and the duty to cover the mouth. I'd like to hear from the Minister why that didn't happen. Mr. Chairman. Restaurants are going bankrupt, despite the support measures. The hospitality industry has invested a lot in protocols which made it easy to comply with the corona measures. Only 2.6% of the infections were traced back to the catering industry. What do you mean, shut down the catering business? I would still like to hear the Minister's support. The figures during the technical briefing this morning also showed that the effect of the closure of the catering industry is equal to zero. Mr. Chairman. Old and new becomes a dystopian experience: together with three guests weep and remember back when we were still free. We're not allowed to fire a baby flare yet. Because this cabinet is unable to enforce the rules, a total ban on fireworks has been decided. Why is this tradition being ruined for no reason? How will the cabinet ensure that the fireworks entrepreneurs are compensated? The total denial of facts is still the most culpable. With an IFR of 0.23% worldwide and an IFR of 0.7% in the Netherlands, you really should and can take other measures. For example, provide targeted protection for the elderly and vulnerable. Under the age of 65, only 506 people have died from over 9,000 coronados. So no reason to ask people under 65 to surrender their freedom, their money and their lives to this government. For example, ensure accurate testing in relation to quarantine. Ensure good ventilation in buildings. It is incomprehensible that little or nothing is done about this. Stop these nonsense measures immediately, such as the one-and-a-half meter measure and make wearing mouth caps voluntary. For example, focus on prevention and healthy life. Do not close your eyes to potential medicines such as hydroxychloroquine and the promising medicinal product ivermectin. Make a balanced balance between different diseases. Why are cancer and heart patients worth less than corona patients? Get the ic capacity up to 1,500 beds as soon as possible, if necessary with ic nurses in training and a buddy system. How many ICU nurses are actually in training by now? Mr. Chairman. The Forum for Democracy does not believe in conspiracy theories, but we do believe in abuse of power, perverse interests and incompetence. Large groups in society are now devastated by the malpractice of this cabinet, not by the coronavirus, but by wrong and unsubstantiated measures. All this is completely unnecessary, because corona is a dangerous virus, but it is evidently no worse than a heavy flu. Old senator Heleen Dupuis said last Saturday in NRC that older people must voluntarily take a step back to relieve young people and the economy. Solidarity shouldn't be endless. So, cabinet, look at the facts, show leadership, stop screwing up and release the Netherlands again! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u151	Madam President. On 14 October 2020 I tabled a motion, co-signed by Mr Wilders, to stop the total lockdown for the catering industry. Indeed, there are a lot of catering entrepreneurs who have invested to make their business coronaproof. The motion was passed, but the whole hospitality business, except for the hotels, went tight. And the cabinet still insists that the catering industry should stay closed. This morning we heard from the briefing that it would be the same in the rest of Europe. I have just looked up which countries around us the last week the catering industry was open. Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Great Britain, Hungary, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Sweden and Switzerland. That's why I'm just gonna ask you again. Can't the hospitality that coronaproof is much better just open? I shall table a motion on this with Mr Wilders later. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. According to many experts, going out to dinner in a restaurant is even safer than eating at home with acquaintances. And then the Lower House elections and the obstacles caused by the corona measures, an important point. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has submitted a temporary law with measures to ensure that the elections are as democratic as possible. Previously, the deadline for collecting the declarations of support was already extended. New political parties wishing to participate in the Lower House elections are nevertheless hampered by the corona measures in obtaining the necessary statements. It is more difficult for vulnerable voters, who want to support a political party, to issue the declaration of support, for example because they want to avoid public transport as much as possible or because they want to get in touch with other people as little as possible and therefore do not want to go to the centre. Also non-vulnerable voters may feel less called to go to City Hall. In addition, we were shocked by the corona measures in many town halls that you first have to make an appointment. Well, that's gonna make the whole hallway to town hall really hard. It is in the interests of democracy that citizens are not hindered by corona measures when issuing their declaration of support. There is a hurry to remove this obstacle as much as possible. That is why I will table a motion in the second term with the request for urgent legislative action to make it possible to submit a statement of support digitally, with DigiD. If you can even make your tax return with DigiD, you should be able to do it with a statement of support. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u152	Thank you, Mr. Krol. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for one hour. Then we can combine it with dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u153	We continue with the debate on the developments around corona and we have arrived at the answer from the cabinet. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u154	Mr. Chairman. Mr Hoekstra, Wopke Hoekstra, the Minister for Finance, has gone to other matters. There's only one question he's been asked and it's answered by Eric Wiebes. Then there is the distribution that I will answer a few questions about the measures, the strategy, the cabinet and education. Then the VWS Minister will address the OMT advice, vaccinations, vulnerable people, including the youth plan, the roadmap and homeless people. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport will discuss the regular care, care staff, sport and sports section of the youth plan, and the zoonoses and fungi. I'm just saying to the Animal Party that I don't have that answer ready right now, but the Minister is going to say something that I totally agree with, from a to z. The Minister for Economic Affairs will discuss field labs and the EZK part of the support package. The Minister for Social Affairs will address the SZW part of the support package, homework and corona jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u155	I want the debate to proceed in an orderly manner. You have three topics, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u156	Yes, I will address the measures, the strategy, the cabinet and education. It's just a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u157	Then it is useful, after you have finished a topic, to possibly have a few short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u158	That's the way I like it. Then I'll start with the measures. Different parties have asked me what I'm going to do to prevent what happened to Black Friday. Indeed, that is very important. Of course, it requires tailor-made work per municipality. I've just been in touch with both Ferd Grapperhaus and Eric Wiebes. Ferd Grapperhaus has already started to consult with the presidents of the 25 security regions on a plan of action for the next few weeks. That affects all aspects that have been discussed. We've got to get the crowds down. We've got to get the travel movements downstairs. If necessary, we need to take measures such as closing parking garages and partially closing streets, pointing out walkways, closing shops or giving removal orders. Of course, he always has to do that from the municipality, but that's what he's going to do with the Security Council. He's gonna prepare that with some members of that Security Council, so there's really gonna be a plan of action for the next few weeks. He and Eric Wiebes of Economic Affairs will then discuss this side of enforcement with the retail trade. This should lead to a whole framework of agreements on their part to ensure safe shopping. Actually, I'd like to say "do errands," because shopping sounds way too cheerful. It's about shopping, and that's what you do on your own. This is also about the design measures in and around the shops and in the public area of shopping areas. Agreements are made with the retail trade on the use of stewards. This has already been agreed, but we are still discussing how this will be further intensified in the coming weeks. So that leads to those two actions. We have already agreed, but I would also like to say once again that I fully agree with all those in the debate who have said that it is of the utmost importance to prevent this fuss from repeating itself. That will ultimately be up to the mayors of the municipalities, but they are very motivated to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the strategy. Of course, we've talked about that before. The cabinet wants to protect the vulnerable and prevent too much pressure on care. Therefore, the virus is closely and intensively monitored. Mrs Marijnissen and I have had this discussion before, and this has been discussed more often with others. We'll take all the necessary measures. We do this on the basis of advice from the Outbreak Management Team. It is important that these measures have the effects we want. We take these decisions as integrally as possible with regard to social and, of course, economic impacts. When I talk about social effects, I also talk about loneliness and extra heavily affected groups in society. Against that background, the Labour Party asked: why do you not have a strategy to go to as little contamination as possible? That's the strategy. The cabinet's strategy is to go to as little contamination as possible. That is what the packages and all the approaches are aimed at. We had hoped to reach the level vigilantly 3 ic intakes per day, below 50 infections per week, below 7 per day and below 1,200 per day for the whole of the Netherlands in January, but that has now become somewhat late because of the delay in reducing the virus. There are always a number of considerations to be taken into account. We always do that on the basis of all the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, as you know. Mr Wilders says: yesterday you were very concerned, weren't you, Rutte, about the possible increase in the number of infections? Yeah, that's right. We see that in itself the expectation is now, in a very large bandwidth.... it is becoming a trumpet when you look at the whole bandwidth... that the number of 10 ic recordings is reached in mid-January. That is now the average expectation, but it moves somewhere between mid-December and mid-March. And those 3 ic-recordings are much further in time, but also in a very wide range of possibilities. We have, of course, seen in the last week that the number of infections is increasing rather than decreasing and that the pressure on the care plateaut is also slightly lower today, in the last few days a little higher so that this pressure does not decrease any further. That's what makes the picture worrying. We will monitor this very closely over the next few days. On the basis of the insights that this brings, we will have to consider whether it is necessary to take further measures. We shall, of course, spare Christmas. We hope at all that we do not have to take these measures. In the same context, there was Mr Krol's question about how we ensure that people get the severity of the crisis on the retina. With him I say that the December month is of course the month that we want to see a lot of family and friends. Big family parties, friends together. I just can't do that this time. So we can make it cozy, but in a much smaller circle than we actually hoped. It's no different. I think most people understand that, by the way. When you see the polls, the surveys in society, you see that the vast majority of people understand that this is the situation and that they also understand that, if necessary, the cabinet must take additional measures. Then I come to the questions about young people and the cabinet, and a few specific questions, but this with regard to strategy and measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u159	I have Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher, Mr Azarkan, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u160	I talked about that number of ICU shots to 10, because it's in the cabinet letter. The Prime Minister, in response to my comment, wondered whether I was a little too negative, but I quoted from his own letter this morning. Those figures are in there, so you were more positive about that. You said there that perhaps in January the measures will be at least, that is the rule if you come to those up to 10 ic-records per day can be phased out earlier. You didn't tell me that yesterday during your story. My question is another one. I am annoyed that after nine months of corona in the Netherlands, approximately from March onwards, the Prime Minister will still not be able to indicate what measures have been taken, or are to be taken, to what effect. I had hoped that you would be able to do this by now, because the people in the Netherlands are hearing from your policy. That is also one of the reasons, I think, because I have not done any research into it for the people not to follow those rules so well. They see a swirling cabinet. First, mouth caps have no meaning at all................................................................................................................................................................................................ The schools had to stay open and then close. The restaurant open-close, open-close. Argument in the cabinet. An ordinary citizen looks at what you do as a cabinet, and thinks: is there a good story in it, are they doing it seriously, do they also know clearly what leads to what? Then you must understand that this citizen thinks: it's a bitch. Where's the direction? Why are we doing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u161	In my opinion, people understand very well that in this crisis it is necessary to reduce the number of contacts. It is not possible to say exactly per measure, as in some sort of catalogue, that this measure will produce this. We are doing the same thing as the surrounding countries. The package currently under way is roughly the same as in Germany. It also looks very much like that in Belgium, after some adjustments have been made. And it is also the same as in other countries. In all these countries, unfortunately, the catering industry is closed. I hate it, but it's just the way it is, and I'm afraid there's no other way. But I really hate it. I think people understand very well that if you have a virus that wants to jump over, that virus only has to be lucky once, when we should always be lucky. If you want to prevent the virus from getting lucky once by jumping on you, then it is necessary to keep that 1.5 meter distance. And we know that when people get together, we're social beings. That's not always perfect. Unfortunately, at such a pandemic, you have to do everything you can to reduce the risk of people getting within 1.5 metres. And if the number of infections is as high as now, then you need to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u162	That may be so, but my point is that you are making such a mess of it with each other's quarrels in the cabinet and within parties and that you first say it's just an example that mouth caps don't make any sense, while it's now mandatory and you get a big fine if you don't wear it. It's a mop policy. If you want to have people's trust, then you have to pursue consistent policies and explain where you want to go, the perspective I mentioned, and then you have to indicate which measures can lead to what. Again, it can't go past the decimal point, but you have to. If you don't, you're gonna get really shocking numbers. On page 25 of today's letter you can see that when it comes to quarantine, as many as 70% of the people returning from a high-risk area where I think they shouldn't have been at all, but that's a good thing about being quarantined when they return. And you can see that 68% of the people who have complaints don't go into quarantine. And even of the people who tested positive, one in five says, "look at it, I'm not going into quarantine." Let us be absolutely clear: that is antisocial behavior that I, with you, do not approve, but which does have a cause. People don't see where it leads. They see you don't offer perspective. They see no light on the horizon in the sense of: if we do this together, it leads to that and then it is done once. Again, you don't have everything in hand, but the communication is bar and bar bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u163	The number of issues that arise in the Netherlands, with mouth caps and measures, is, I am speaking to many European colleagues, who are similar to all European countries. I had a long conversation this morning with Scott Morrison of Australia and earlier this week with the Japanese Prime Minister and with Duque, the President of Colombia. In all these countries, these discussions are taking place, where, in a pandemic where you do not know all the details of the virus, you look for the best way forward with limited knowledge. This is comparable in all these countries and in the end all these countries come up with a similar approach. We have had a different approach in Europe in Sweden, but at the end of the day you can see that Sweden is also joining the mainstream because they cannot get out of it. That's not so crazy, because at the core, this virus forces us to keep our distance. You have to take measures to slow down the logical, human and normal behavior of getting close at times when that is really unwise. This is what behavioral advice is used when the spread of the virus is low, but also when the spread occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u164	You can call all countries, that's all very interesting, but it's about the Netherlands now. But if you want to talk about other countries, I doubt that 50% of the people who should go into quarantine do not. That is the case now in the Netherlands: of the people who should go into quarantine, half say they do not and half do. That way we will never solve the problems, at least not until there is a vaccine that people would like to take. I'm telling you, think about how that happened. I think that's because you're pursuing a chop-chop policy, because you're arguing amongst yourselves and because people, when they think of corona, don't know what they're doing and where it leads. Okay, Rutte can't predict everything beyond comma, but I do know where it's going. One example: the Prime Minister himself just started talking about the catering industry. He says in a subtlety: I hate what's going on in the catering industry. Mr. Prime Minister, you dropped the catering business like a brick. I have asked you and colleagues with me a hundred times: can you not open the catering? Can it be justified? Do you think it's possible for an experiment? Is it all right? Can only the restaurants stay open? We've had hundreds of variants, and you haven't listened to them. These people are going crazy right now. You don't give them 100% compensation either. You're just abandoning them. People are going to die. Families break down, companies break down, and some even consider putting an end to their lives. That's a huge drama. You can't get away with that by standing here and saying, "I hate it." No, those people hate it. Their whole life's work goes to hell. So I'm gonna ask you again. I won't start another hour on that note from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because I think we've already talked about that enough. But please allow those people in the catering industry to open their business, whether it's at all, what I want, or in part. If you do not, because you do not think that is possible, make sure that they are reimbursed 100% of their expenses after a year of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u165	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u166	Make sure they get 100% of their expenses reimbursed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u167	I would very much like us to be able to say that under strict conditions we make it possible for restaurants to open up again. We had also hoped to be able to do that about now, if we were on about ten ic-recordings a day. Then you're worried at the level, and then you're not where you want to be. But we're not there. We're on doubles right now. We currently have almost 90,000 people who are contagious, in the Netherlands. We saw again today that the number of infections involved is hundreds more than yesterday. It is simply unwise. The Outbreak Management Team's documents have been sent along with today, said that even if you did it under strict conditions, with strict compliance, it will lead to a further increase in the number of infections and hospitalizations. Well, I'm afraid you can't do that right now. The perspective here is that if we all manage to reverse that threat of an increase in the next week and thus stay on that path to, say, about ten shots in intensive care a day, that perspective is about in the second half of January, maybe mid-January, so we hope. It was there in the middle of December. But it turns out it's not true; it turns out we're still on the double number. So it's slower than we wanted it to be. In fact, that was my other point to which Mr Wilders responded. We are going to monitor that very precisely, because if that continues, then you even have to take additional measures; then that is inevitable. So Wilders and I are pulling on the same side of the rope. I don't want anything more than that, but it's simply not responsible right now. Nor is it happening anywhere in other countries in Europe with similar situations, such as Germany, France and Belgium. The restaurants don't open there either. I'm afraid it's not possible yet. We hope it can be done by mid-January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u168	Your last question on this point, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u169	The last interruption, Mr. Chairman. I have three brief points to make. The first is: you can't explain to me at this time I can't tell a catering entrepreneur who has a restaurant or a pub or any restaurant in a full shopping street, that he sees that a lot of people go shopping there, that all shops are open and that theirs is closed. I can't explain that, and I'm asking the Prime Minister to explain that to the people. My second comment, Mr President, is that because you closed down the catering industry, the number of home infections has increased from 9.8% in early October to 21.9% now. So you can see that that's more than doubled; instead of people going to the catering industry, they're going to sit together at home and have a drink or something to eat or whatever. So that's putting the horse behind the cart. Then I come to my last question in this last interruption on this subject, Mr President. I hope I get an answer to all three of them. Suppose you don't want to, no matter how unfair and unwise I think it is for those heroes from the hospitality industry. Are you at least prepared to not pay 80% of their savings again, they have already used 3.5 billion of their savings, but 100% of their expenses, wages and fixed charges, while it is still going to be paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u170	On the third point, I believe that we have really taken a very serious approach. That is what Mr Wiebes will discuss in a moment when he explains the package. We have built it hugely, precisely because we realize how badly the sector has been hit. But what's the problem? It is not the problem of the catering industry, because the average café and restaurant owner does it extremely decently in the Netherlands. But the fact is that we have seen an increase in the number of people working and getting a positive test result when things were open. We also saw that the proportion of clusters related to the catering industry and the number of infections per cluster increased enormously until the end of September, when the catering industry was open. In the catering industry there is also a decrease in distance keeping, and you can also see that, if there are clusters in the catering industry, it is directly about large numbers. That's not crazy either, because unlike in stores... I also understand the frustration of the average cafe owner who says: yes, but the clothing store, the butcher and the cheese farmer next to me is open. But people are shorter in there. Of course, you'll be here longer in the same case. That means that even if you work with placement and keeping distance, the number of longer contact moments between people is still increasing tremendously. Well, what does that mean? That means that you do want to give the catering industry a chance to get back to work as soon as possible. In any case, there could be something with restaurants if you're on about ten, but under very strict conditions. But doing that now is simply... I'm terribly sorry... I think it's awful for the people who work there and for the entrepreneurs, but it's just really unwise at the moment to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u171	Mr Asscher and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u172	I hope the cabinet succeeds. I would also like the Prime Minister to succeed in reducing the contamination so that the situation can be reopened. But the Prime Minister just said 'I have this strategy of as few infections as possible as quickly as possible' and there he loses me, because I don't see that again. I'm very concerned about that. In August, September, October, November and December we have always seen a pattern of waiting and hoping that it will be okay. As a result, in my view, too late and, in the words of the Prime Minister, not sufficiently firm action has been taken. I think that's very dangerous. Whether it is about the catering entrepreneurs or the people who work in the care, this period of extreme taxation, health damage and economic damage is always extended. The question I would like to ask the Prime Minister is whether he or his cabinet considered another package for yesterday's press conference. When he saw last week that the number of infections started to rise again, did he consider taking action more quickly and firmly? Has he considered ensuring that compliance is improved, precisely in order to prevent us from remaining in such an endless quack lockdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u173	As regards compliance: yes. I have just outlined what we are going to do over the next few weeks to prevent Black Friday-like business. Well, I've just explained what Grapperhaus and also Grapperhaus and Wiebes are going to do together to make a maximum effort. Furthermore, we ask the Outbreak Management Team to indicate, on the basis of the epidemiological situation, what we have to do, given the state of contamination, the state of the R-number, the state of the situation in intensive care in hospitals, the state of affairs in nursing homes and also the state of affairs in ordinary hospital departments and nursing departments. What are we gonna do? Based on this situation, the Outbreak Management Team comes up with advice on what to do within the strategy. And the strategy is that eventually you want to go back to... And that translates into that number of three ic-recordings a day. Then you are on that level vigilant and the virus is so under control that if it flicks up again, you can stamp it out by flicker, along with the bco research and the whole test policy. That is what it is aimed at and we ask the OMT to give its opinion on it. What we have seen in the past few days is an increase and there is therefore no advice from the Outbreak Management Team to do extra things now. But in the context of full transparency, when we talk to the Chamber here or yesterday through the press conference with the Netherlands, I said: given these rising figures, I cannot rule out the fact that we have to report to the Netherlands again before Christmas with the message that perhaps more is needed. I sincerely hope it is not necessary. If necessary, we'll spare Christmas. But there's no way to rule out the need for more. You can now see exactly the same discussion in Germany, where the situation is slightly more favourable than in the Netherlands, but where there are significant increases at the moment, with between one day and the other... They then look on a weekly basis, because they have very large differences between those weeks, due to a delay in reporting in Germany, where there are now 3,000 days compared to week after week. As a result, you have also seen today that Merkel, the German Chancellor, said in the Bundestag: it cannot be ruled out that we also have to do extra things between... Well, then she chooses the period between 21 December and 10 January. It is not yet that far in the Netherlands, but given these figures and how they develop, I cannot rule that out and then I say that in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u174	So I understand that as a no! The Prime Minister has not considered stepping up his intervention, as the figures are rising again. I would agree with the strategy of having as few infections as possible as soon as possible, because if it rises, it is clearly not going in the right direction. But, the Prime Minister says, I have done more to improve compliance and have sent it. We have also talked about this in previous debates. I am pleased that the Black Friday fiasco is now indeed leading to further agreements with the municipalities. That seems very sensible and very good. But in compliance with many other, simpler things, I see little improvement, but rather deterioration. I would like to mention, for example, the quarantine obligation. How many times has it been imposed? Is that what they're sending? Will you also ensure that compliance remains on the agenda in this respect? Somehow, the number of infections has to be reduced, while that is now rising. If you want to take the strategy 'to zero', which is better for health and economy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u175	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u176	Then you either have to impose more binding measures or improve compliance and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u177	Sure. At quarantine, De Jonge might be able to go into further details in a moment. Let me mention at least one element. What helps, of course, is that you can now get tested after five days, so that you don't have to stay at home for ten days, but after five days in a negative test, the quarantine can be lifted. So that period becomes clearer, unless of course you are tested positive. I also mention the measures taken by the municipal authorities, in the regions, to provide support for people who are in this situation and who are dealing with very practical things such as shopping, walking dogs, and you name it. Think also of fighting loneliness. We are working on all these quarantine issues, but Hugo de Jonge can deal with them much more instantly. With regard to enforcement, in the Security Council, we have the discussions with the presidents of the security regions every Monday. They are very aware of their task. You can also see that they take the roll-up of trouble-giving parties very seriously. We can't get behind the front door, but if there's any trouble, we can. At parties in public, where that is not allowed, this is now happening on a much larger scale. That is not only because everyone realizes that it is important to roll up that particular party, but also for the support of Asscher, Rutte and all the other Dutch people for the measures we have taken, it is important that you see that if someone does not stick to them, they will indeed intervene. I agree with the room on that Black Friday. I just started on that subject because it was taken from my heart and because I know that Grapperhaus and Wiebes are so busy doing it. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u178	I have Mr Azarkan, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. Mr. Azarkan. Mr Segers, too? Will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u179	Let's talk about the strategy, because that was pretty quick. I heard the Prime Minister say the strategy is to go to three ICU shots. I think that is an objective. A strategy is how you get there: what measures do you take and what is the way to get there? At that point, it really is a sort of tombola. At the end of September, at the beginning of October, the OMT said: focus more on these measures, because then we are going to make it 0.9 easier. The cabinet said, no, we don't. Now we're at 1, maybe higher. Why does the cabinet not listen to the OMT when it is proposed, and then say afterwards: it is up to the people, because they do not follow what is said?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u180	None of this is right. First of all, it's not the population. It is up to all of us whether we succeed or not, but it is not the case that the cabinet points to the Netherlands: you are not doing well. I said it yesterday in the press conference: if I point my finger, of course there are three fingers pointing to myself. It is true that the sum total of everything we do eventually gets the virus under control. We cannot deny that this is the case. Two, the opinions of the Outbreak Management Team we always take over, perhaps not exactly every measure, but we have often had those debates here. On balance, what we are doing is what the OMT is proposing on balance. Then there may be a difference in the meaning of upper secondary schools or not closed, and in return we will take other measures, but in the balance we will take packages that are comparable in weight. Yes, in the regional approach, in September, at that level worryingly, we have talked about this before, and the fact is that those packages should have been more robust. We have talked about it many times, and it is also reflected in the new roadmap. In a moment, Minister De Jonge will discuss this roadmap and the timing. I agree that three is a goal. The strategy is that we have talked about more often about the maximum control of the virus. To this end, the objectives are to provide the best possible protection for people with vulnerable health and to ensure that care is not overloaded. This translates into figures, and figures are, for example, very visible, the number of people entering intensive care. But, of course, Mr Azarkan is right that this is an objective and not the strategy. The strategy is to control the virus as much as it has been from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u181	The direction of the strategy is based on the dashboard. That's the idea. We are now more than three times higher than we want with the hospital admissions. With the ic-recordings, we're not on 3 but on 22 and with the signal value at 10. So we're seven times higher than what we're aiming for. When and how are we going to get there? Because like a lot of Dutch people, I do not see that at the moment just in line with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u182	That is the package of 13 October. You saw that that initially led to a huge decrease, a third in week-on-week basis, in the number of infections, the number of infectious diseases, the number of hospitalizations and the number of ic intakes. Then you saw a period when that drop gradually stopped. Now there's even a risk of an increase. The whole package is aimed at ultimately continuing the decline. The reason I say that you cannot rule out the need for more is indeed, in addition to the point that the decline reached a plateau some time ago, that you also see that there are signs of a rise here and there. If this increase were to continue, we will monitor it very carefully, we will look at what we have to do, in consultation with the OMT and, of course, on the basis of a request for advice from the OMT. And if we don't file that recommendation, the OMT man is enough to advise us, too. At this point, it's not over yet. I hurry to say again that we will spare Christmas, because the Christmas days are already sober enough with up to three people for home visits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u183	If I retrieve the package from October 15th, the idea was that we would now be on a reproduction number of 0.9. In my opinion, the expectation was real, even so pronounced towards the catering industry. I know that Minister De Jonge said that we would look at it for three weeks and that we would extend it again afterwards. People miss the trust. Then you get that people aren't working on complying with the rules anymore. What's the reason we're sitting on that plateau and the number's going to rise? What's the explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u184	That statement is not always accurate. I explained that yesterday at the press conference. This was also reported from the experts in today's briefing. There are several potential explanations, but no definitive ones. We are now seeing in Germany, but also in Belgium and France, in all those countries, that there is an upward pressure on the figures rather than a further decrease in the figures. That could be a seasonal effect, which may have to do with the fact that much more is being tested, so you can see more of the iceberg. But unfortunately, those are statements that could also put us to sleep, especially that second statement. The number of people infected every day is simply too high in absolute numbers. It doesn't just translate into having more insight into the total number of people infected because the iceberg becomes more visible. That's worrying. We monitor that very carefully. My message to the Netherlands is that we are all in control of getting that trend down again, just as we succeeded in the weeks after 13 October. We were on an R of 0.92, 0.93. It is now on 1 and has even been a bit above that. That means it's all very precarious. Because if that R goes up to 1.1 or 1.2, it's going to grow exponentially again. That is why we are monitoring it so precisely and yesterday we told the Netherlands and today we tell the Chamber that if this gives rise to additional measures, we will also take them. I want to be completely open about that. It's not that far yet. We still have the opportunity to get it back down together. That's the crossroads I outlined yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u185	Another one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u186	Yes. I don't know... if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u187	So there's a variable that somehow makes sure we don't get where we want to be. So this cabinet is failing to lead us out of that fog. The plateau stays high, it even increases. What is the Prime Minister's expectation of when? Is there a visual on that? Because I find it so inexplicable if we don't know exactly why the weather is increasing. What are we supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u188	The tragedy is that, in this crisis, we are still partly in the fog, Mr. Azarkan, because we cannot control everything. That's what you see all over the world and also in the Netherlands. The virus doesn't always follow exactly what we thought it would do. Eventually, of course, it's the sum of what we do to all of us that makes it possible to get the virus underneath. That's what I said yesterday. If we were to come to the conclusion in the next few days, in the next week, that more needs to be done, we would not hesitate to do so. Because our main objective is public health. This translates into the hospital sector itself, into the care sector, which should not become overburdened. This translates into: what does it mean for people with vulnerable health and elderly people? From these important objectives, we will not hesitate to take additional measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u189	The Prime Minister reiterated that the strategy has been contained, directed at as few infections as possible, better for health and better for the economy. But I honestly don't see it. What I do see are pieces that have now been released about the Catshuis consultation, which mainly looks at the number of ic-recordings. I see a piece of another part of the cabinet that says: yes, but the testing policy and the source and contact research are not at all such that we can really contain. I see press conferences which focus mainly on ic capacity. I see that the R is now around 1 again, but I do not see any additional measures. My question to the Prime Minister is: what exactly would show that the cabinet is restraining?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u190	What we do... But that can only be monitored at the level, because the number of infectious agents is simply too high and the number of infections is too high. When you're back on a level that you can control that again, you want to contain the virus at the moment it pops up, as we've often discussed it here in this Chamber. It is now too large a scale, and then it is extremely difficult to contain each individual outbreak. Nevertheless, the goal remains to go back to the level vigilantly. Indeed, that translates into figures. You can look at the number of hospitalizations or the number of infections per day. I think the number of ic-recordings is the most visible figure. Why? Because you have everyone in the number of ICU recordings, not only the people who have been tested, but also the people who haven't been tested. Because even if you haven't been tested and you have to go to the hospital, you'll go to the hospital and be determined whether it's covid or not. That is why in itself this is a very manageable figure that is also directly related to the healthcare capacity from the objectives we have outlined: care and people with vulnerable health. Given the fact that it is not falling any further at the moment, we are at the crossroads and we all have the opportunity to get the matter under control in the next few weeks with the virus. But it may also not be enough. We will monitor that very closely over the next few days, the next week. Then it is possible that we may have to take additional measures from the strategy that we ensure that we control the virus as much as possible and from the objectives I have outlined, as we have always put them here and discussed with each other from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u191	The cabinet creates so much fog by combining so many terms and assumptions. If I listen carefully, the Prime Minister actually says, "No, now we're not trying to contain it, because now the number of infections is too high. So we're gonna have to hold off on that containment. We're gonna do that again when we have fewer infections." But, of course, the question is: how do we get there and what path does the cabinet follow? I would like to make my question a little more specific and also refer to the roadmap, which, of course, was there first to create more perspective and also more predictability. Well, that thing's in the trash now and there's gonna be a new one. My specific question this evening would be: to what level does the Prime Minister think that the number of infections still needs to increase before there are any additional measures? Or the other way around: what level of contamination should we go down to before the cabinet finds that relaxation is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u192	The latter is easier to say than the first. The latter is also reflected in the Roadmap, which, by the way, still exists but which we are going to update. The Minister of VWS will say more about this in a moment. In that you can see that we ultimately want to return to the level of vigilance. But if you tick the level worryingly, which translates into those ten ic-recordings, then something is possible again. Then, for example, it is possible, we think, perhaps under all kinds of strict conditions and on the basis of all the preparations made by the catering industry, to make something possible in the restaurants again, but unfortunately not yet in the cafés. In the restaurants there might be something possible within certain time frames, so windows, between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. or between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. We'll all have to look at that very carefully. But then we could do something. That's exactly what's in the roadmap. Those are the ten I.C. shots, which, in the end, has to go back to those three. It is primarily up to the Outbreak Management Team to advise us on whether you should do more. The Outbreak Management Team looks at a mix of indications. It looks, of course, at the number of people who are infected every day and the average. But again, you don't know what you don't see from the iceberg. Now that so much can be tested in the Netherlands and so many people do so, we can of course see that we have more and more insight into the total number of infections. Therefore, it is also relevant to look at the percentage of infected people per day. Of course, that's exactly what you can follow. That was 11.4% today. It comes from 18%, 19%, but it has been around this level for some time: between 9.9% and 12.5%. That's what you want to bring down. So that's what we're looking at, the R number being looked at and, of course, the situation in hospitals. So in that mix, the Outbreak Management Team will advise us. We'll monitor that very precisely over the next few days and week, to see if that's necessary. I sincerely hope it is not necessary. If necessary, we will at least try to avoid 24, 25 and 26 December because it was not so happy there with only three people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u193	Yeah? Then I'll go to Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u194	In this morning's briefing we heard almost a horror scenario, namely that it might take until July at this rate before we are back in safe waters. My question to the Prime Minister is whether that is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u195	No. Of course, that's the whole fan too. What they show is between what is expected to be the earliest and what is expected to be the last to reach those signal values. Eventually, there's a point in it that they say: this is probably going to be about it. With regard to those ten Ic-recordings you are now, I say, out of my mind, mid-January and perhaps even third week of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u196	If we want to go all the way back to the first level of the album, which is about those three ic-recordings, you're in July. I am asking that question because you have to ask yourself whether the strategy and the means involved are right. If you've been working since October and you can't get it under, you can point to the people who have to do it, that is, everyone who lives in this country, and say, "Better keep to the rules"..........................................................................................................................................'. Every week that this partial lockdown we're in takes longer, has huge economic consequences. We see that other strategies are being chosen, at least that is being tried in other countries. Because we are now at such a high peak with the number of infections, for example, it is perhaps the time to have the entire population tested. This does not allow us to release society at once, but you can get a grip on the virus. Making sure that we have a lot of tests that we can use preventively is a way of ensuring that we do not have to resort to the rigorous measures that we now have, with less damage to the economy by getting back into normal rates faster. Why doesn't the Cabinet choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u197	In a moment Hugo de Jonge will go into that idea of testing the entire population, but I'm going to give a profit warning: that's not the cheerful story either. We've been looking at Slovakia. He's about to say something about that. He's going to say something about Luxembourg. It turns out that this is not the solution either, but Hugo de Jonge will discuss this in a moment. It's a good debate to have. GroenLinks has also made proposals for this and we simply need to discuss them well with each other. We are not very happy about the insights about Slovakia and Luxembourg. Where we are more cheerful, well, cheerful you can't be anywhere with this topic or be a bit more positive about it, the possibilities to see in a combination of field labs and tests in which sectors you can do more. Then he gets interesting when I talk about eventually going back to those three ic-recordings. We now have 7,500 people working at the GGDs for source and contact research and they can do 3,000 bco's a day under normal circumstances. Those are huge numbers. We're going to compare it with other countries in Europe. That capacity is hugely expanded. This means that we will have to look again, also against the background of what comes out of all these experiments, or under strict conditions even if you haven't gone from those ten to those three can make more possible. We will have to discuss this very precisely, of course first with our advisors in the Outbreak Management Team, the virological and epidemiological advisors, to see if you can eventually change anything at that point. At the moment that is simply not possible. It is now really irresponsible, for example, to let go of those ten and those three ic recordings, those figures. That would be unwise right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u198	Finally. In substance, about how you test and how you can do that, we will certainly talk to Minister De Jonge, but this is about the strategy. What I see and what I think we all see is that we are not very successful in fighting virus this autumn. That's not going so fast. And to think, the strategy we have now is the best we have. We just need to do it better. I ask the Prime Minister to think more creatively about what ways, other ways, you can use to get it down faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u199	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u200	Actually, we know that a very hard lockdown works much better, but then it has to be short. So what's ready to make sure we can do a very solid, hard lockdown, we can shut it all down, two weeks, and then open it with all the guarantees, like enough source and contact research, enough tests, and from there we can go on? The scenario in which we continue to muddle in this quacklock down nobody sees, because of which the social, economic and health consequences are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u201	I am not saying that what Mr Klaver says is not correct. You can think about such measures. It can't be ruled out. The tricky thing is that, if you consider such measures, they have far-reaching social consequences. They should also be viewed according to what they do for getting control of the virus. This, of course, has everything to do with all the factors that need to be addressed: compliance, compliance, you name it. So it's not that simple. The length of time is not that easy either. But, of course, he's right in his own right. I said that yesterday at the press conference. If we can't get it under control, you have to start thinking: don't you have to go much further in education, don't you have to go much further in non-essential retail? These are very difficult issues with far-reaching economic and social consequences. You have to turn it off against the goal that can be achieved with that. That's not something you can just decide with each other in the afternoon. Our advisors say this is not necessary right now. They are with us concerned about the development in the last few days. We monitor that very carefully. This could lead us to come back to you with further measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u202	Mr Segers and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u203	With my colleagues, I'm quite concerned. It's taking longer than we thought. The figures are falling much less, or not dropping at all, as we hoped. In fact, it is not quite clear when we are going to take what measure, for what purpose. Maybe it couldn't have been any different so far, but it still has a bit of the character of us jumping from ice floes to ice floes. Let's think about the future and the new year. It might take another six months. I also see, with the knowledge of the last few weeks, that it is becoming increasingly difficult to bring down the figure and that there is also a certain fatigue with regard to measures and their follow-up. If the cabinet is going to think about a new roadmap, wouldn't that be the time to look at a number of other scenarios? As Mr Klaver just said, perhaps we should also put the scenario of a very short heavy lockdown on the table. Not because we are going to do it necessarily, but because: what would be the consequences versus what we have done so far and also in comparison with other countries? I am thinking not only of European countries, but also of a country such as South Korea, which is much more successful in curbing and keeping the figures low. I would ask you to use the Christmas tree period to keep everything under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u204	We have to do this permanently, but I would like to take away the image that it is so bad. Yes, we don't know everything, but of course we know from March, April and also from surrounding countries and other parts of the world what works in packages and what doesn't work. Unfortunately, one of the things that is needed in this type of infection rate is for example closing the catering industry, limiting group sizes, inside and outside, and limiting the number of people who can go to the cinema or to a theatre. Those are effective measures. You also saw that from October 13th the number of infections started to decrease considerably. The R has also been under 1 for a while. You can see at this moment across Europe that the R is rising again. The number of infections plateaut and the number of hospital admissions isn't really falling anymore. It shows a bit of a quacking image. That indeed calls for a rethinking of the next steps. The roadmap as it stands now also has the option of a virtually complete lockdown. It's already in there. And we have enough information to know what mix of measures things work in. You just can't say exactly: if I use that one specific measure, it will do so on the R. You can hardly calculate it that precisely. That's what RIVM is trying to do at our request. That's surrounded by big bandwidths. But the mix of measures is where to look for it. Including, of course, the collective awareness of how important this is. I am pleased to note that the vast majority of people in the country still understand the importance of fighting the virus and also see how risky it is. They also see the almost 10,000 empty chairs on the Christmasdis in front of their eyes. Mr Segers rightly said in his term: there are actually many more, because those are just the people we know for certain that they have died of corona. We also know that the real number is probably much higher. People realize that. They see how dangerous it is. It is, of course, also the wisdom of the population that ultimately realizes in its collectivity that we are literally dealing with something dangerous here. The task to us together is to constantly look on the basis of the latest insights as to what the steps are forward. But it's not like we're doing that without an understanding of what's worked in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u205	At that point. The Prime Minister says: we know what works, because that also worked in March and April. But the situation is different now than in March and April, because when it was said 'you have to work at home', suddenly it was completely quiet in the streets and people went home to work. Now the call has been made again to work at home, but I have seen traffic jams in the last few weeks. I drove by the train, but I saw them anyway. This shows exactly that the behavior is different now than three-quarters of a year ago; this also calls for a new thought. My concern is with something the Prime Minister said at the press conference: I may be standing here in two weeks' time, and I do not know with what figures and with what measures. Can't we use that road map anyway... I too am in the dark and do not suggest at all that there are easy answers. But can we not land on a number of scenarios and on a clearer roadmap, which leaves it less to the uncertainty and which makes it more certain what figures are actually in two weeks' time and what are the measures to be expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u206	With regard to the measures: yes. That is why we are now also trying to adapt that roadmap based on the lessons learned in September. For example, the intermediate level was worrying not strong enough and the level should probably also be firmer. We are now working on all these points to see exactly what extra needs to be done. But the question of what grade you're looking at to know if you need to take extra measures, I can't answer. That's not one number, that's really a mix. For that we really need the experts, the epidemiological and virological experts in the Outbreak Management Team, because it is always a mix of the rate of distribution, what happens in the care and how the percentage of infections develops on the total number of tests that are taken out each day. So it's really a mix that an expert eye needs to look at. So at least I don't, because then you really talk about a medical, virological, epidemiological eye. These experts will then come up with an opinion on the basis of which we have said this more often: then we will shake each other up nicely and test the kidneys thoroughly and finally take political and administrative decisions, which we are defending here. But we do that on the basis of that scientific input. Furthermore, Mr Segers is of course right: in March/April, in all countries, the first blow of the virus, along with the fact that we also did not know how wide it was spread in society and the enormous increase in numbers in intensive care and in hospitals, led to a collective drive against the bump that left everyone at home. The fact that more people are on their way is not good when those people are on their way to the office. But if that's because they'd rather be in the car than in public transport, because they're worried about getting infected there, then that choice is people. So it can also be partly that. But Mr Segers is right that the average number of movements in the Netherlands is indeed higher than in March/April. But it's lower than usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u207	Finally. The Chamber was pleased that there was a road map, which provided some clarity. They're gonna revisit it. If we now have some weeks of Christmastreces with some peace, and if the cabinet also takes that peace, but also thinks about how that roadmap might look, then the next debate would be to hold that against it and to discuss it here: are these indeed the necessary scenarios, and is this indeed the roadmap that gives us the hold we all want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u208	Sure. That's pretty much our planning, too. Hugo de Jonge will go into more detail in a moment. But that's about our schedule: after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u209	The Prime Minister just said that the strategy is to control that virus as much as possible. We do that because we protect vulnerable people and prevent the pressure on care. Since we don't have a vaccine yet, we're trying to control that virus with restrictive measures. We discussed this for a long time in the first part of the debate. But that vaccine is coming right now. That brings me to the question: at what point are you on enough vaccinees to start looking at the strategy in a different way? We get 7 million vaccines in the first quarter and around 14 million in the second quarter, but are 5 to 6 million vulnerable people in the Netherlands. So is there at some point a point where you have already vaccinated the vulnerable and the rest of the population is not actually yet able to move the strategy forward and can also move faster towards greater enlargement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u210	This is a very good question. Of course, I could serve the whole answer now without any problem, but I also want to leave something for Hugo de Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u211	That is very thoughtful of the Prime Minister to the Minister, but I asked it now because the debate with Asscher and Marijnissen among others was about the question: what is the government's strategy and what does it look like in the future? I think that the cabinet can also help a lot of Dutch people to persevere for a few months...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u212	Exactly. Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u213	... when everyone realizes: if we all do our best and get those vaccines, then there's also...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u214	This is, of course, the light at the end of the tunnel. We have always said: as long as the vaccine is not there, you should see if you can make a little bit possible with all kinds of innovations in the field of testing and in scale. That's why these field labs include the latest insights into testing every time, to see if that can help to make more possible, for example at events or in cafés. Eric Wiebes will discuss how to design these field labs in a moment. That's why you're looking at the state of the drug investigation. But the most promising thing is, of course, the vaccine. You saw what happened in England. The first vaccine that was placed was a kind of national event, V-day, vaccination day. That will be no different in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u215	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u216	Mr. Chairman. Then a few loose points before I give the floor through you to Mr. De Jonge, the US Secretary of State. Young people and students. For the sake of clarity, because I agree with Mr Jetten and others on this point: they can already go to physical education college, if at 1.5 metres; that or. Well, that does ask for maximum creativeness. I would like to make that call again, including at universities and colleges of applied sciences. At the moment there are so many theatres that have problems and make themselves available to enable education on a much larger scale. It requires that type of creative solutions. I know we're working on that. Ingrid van Engelshoven also does this, with the MBO schools but of course also with the universities and the colleges. Minister Van Engelshoven will continue to study here and will return to the Chamber. Perhaps that is why she is eager to discuss this with the Chamber. Then towards Mr Segers: Mr Wiebes will be doing the field labs shortly, but you asked specifically about the churches. We are now looking at theatres and the sports sector, and of course also at the catering industry, but then more the wet catering industry, because we already have a lot of information about the dry catering industry, as it is called, so the restaurant business. In my view, it is not obvious to add churches to this, because of their special constitutional position and because Minister Grapperhaus of Justice and Security also has a very good and intensive consultation with the church societies. Perhaps I could bring the suggestion you made about field labs and churches to the attention of Grapperhaus for his conversations with the churches. I'm a little reluctant myself, because I just don't see it all in my head. But he is speaking again this week with the dome organization of the churches, also to talk about the Christmas period and how to deal with it, appropriate to the seriousness of the situation. We know that the vast majority of churches, mosques and other religious institutions are trying very well to handle this wisely. Let me say that I bring this suggestion to his attention without comment on my part in order to see if it could help in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u217	I was interested in something even wider than churches, for example, in community centers. It really is a social context. If there are some field labs, some pilot projects, take one or two social contexts. That was actually my request. I know those scenarios are ready. I know that it has been considered and that there too we want to be ready for the phase in which we are slowly but surely coming out of this crisis. Then it would be nice if there too experience has been gained in social and social context, so wider than just churches. Yeah, it's also about churches, but it could be a community center or something. I would like it to be slightly widened in that sense. Again, I know those scenarios are ready. So it is fine if this is taken into account in that consultation. But it would be nice if this broadening took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u218	Then, through this debate, let us make a joint appeal, including to the churches and religious organisations that are about to sit at the table with Grapperhaus, to lay down these plans there. I will then make sure that Ferd Grapperhaus takes note of this part of the debate. The last two questions, first of all the question about the political parties. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to send a letter on this matter to all the mayors in the very short term. Perhaps I can refer to that, because this is something outside the scope of this debate. I have a whole answer, but Mr Krol will then respond on the basis of that answer and then I will have nothing. So maybe I can refer this to the Secretary of State. Otherwise, I'm gonna read up pieces and hope to have some ammunition left. It therefore presents a letter on the rules for making declarations of support, the importance of these declarations for new political parties, etc. So that's all included in that letter. I will also ensure that what Mr Krol said about this is known to her through the report of this debate. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the question about the cabinet. I also find it very unfortunate that that piece came out yesterday, because it confuses the restaurants and cafes that think: maybe it can be done. But it can't be done. This is also evident from today's OMT opinion. That is why yesterday there was also the letter from Hugo de Jonge and Eric Wiebes, the ministers of VWS and EZK, to explain that unfortunately it is not. I can't guarantee that nothing will ever leak again in the future. I am, of course, trying to prevent this kind of confusion from arising on the basis of such a piece. I didn't know the play myself. But I can also tell you: yes, it is true that in mid-October we had some rather spicy discussions in the cabinet, not along party lines, but really from the content, about what we had to do. That's where we tested each other for a while. I think that's very good, because it's such a big crisis. I have said it many times: instead of everyone expressing their cigars at the end of the discussion, I prefer to say 'just like that', that sometimes we collide. But that didn't happen to that extent after that. The discussions are still firm, but absolutely not of the heaviness we had in mid-October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u219	Mrs Marijnissen and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u220	My question is about a piece that I have often asked for here and of which the Prime Minister has often said...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u221	Eric, pay attention; this is your play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u222	I've asked many times about that piece. The Prime Minister didn't let me get that, but we received it last night anyway. It says that three of his ministers say that the test policy and the source and contact research are not in order so that a short, hard blow, so the so-called hammer............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, we also have a minister in his cabinet who is constantly telling us here in the Chamber: no, that test policy and that source and contact research are now on track; that is going very well. My question to the Prime Minister is: what part of your cabinet actually has the truth in rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u223	Just a little bit in advance, and then I'll come to your question. Mr Asscher has often insisted on it: we are making that slide decks, that pile of sheets of the Catshuis, known now, unless there is state-confidential information in it. I believe that one sheet is not being delivered or is being delivered. I don't know exactly why, but there's something in there that's really confidential; not policy-based, because I think that's about organisations. Sometimes they are also pieces that have been inserted by others. For example, we have had presentations from the mayor of Amsterdam, Femke Halsema, or others. Then, of course, we have to check with them: are you okay with us providing it? But basically, we're going to provide it. There are no agendas of the Catshuis, there are no reports of the Catshuis and no decisions are taken. It's orientation, but I don't want there to be some sort of mystery around that Catshuis. That's gonna happen a little bit. So you'll get those pieces. That doesn't mean they've been treated. This memo hasn't been processed. So that's what I was gonna say. It's been lying there somewhere on a table to be handed out, but it hasn't been treated. Now I'm going to the contents of the memo. The memo suggests that with a better test capacity a next wave of contamination and a partial lockdown could have been prevented; that's actually what it says. Can I say the following? That's, at best, an unproven statement. All countries around us, whether they test more or less than the Netherlands, have not been able to prevent a partial or complete lockdown. Moreover, the problems with our test capacity mainly occurred in the month of September. During that period, many European countries had problems with testing capacity. But countries that didn't have these problems couldn't avoid a second wave either. I have just mentioned Luxembourg, for example. There was even a whole population test done in the summer and in the following months seven to eight times more tests were carried out than in the Netherlands, but the number of infections in Luxembourg is higher than in the Netherlands. Even in Slovakia, where a mass population test was accompanied by a strict lockdown measure, a reduction was eventually achieved comparable to the number of infections that we now have in the Netherlands and where the number of infections is the same. In other words, I don't think what's in that memo would all be justified. If we had handled it at the Catshouse, I could have told you there. I am so glad to be able to do so here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u224	The Prime Minister stands here triumphantly telling us that the piece was not dealt with at the Catshuis. We do not know that, because we do not get those reports as Chambers, but it was in the newspaper. So it had apparently been found by something or someone good enough to share with the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u225	Yeah, that's right. Apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u226	That sounds like something to me. Right? If it was a meaningless piece or no one saw anything in it, I also don't know one-two-three what the need is to share it with the newspaper, especially if it wasn't good enough to share it with the Chamber. So I actually understand that Wiebes, Koolmees and Hoekstra, the authors of the piece, are not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u227	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u228	And you would have made that clear to them at the Catshuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u229	Yeah, sure. I think it's an unproven proposition. We didn't discuss it there, so I couldn't do it there. That's why I'm doing it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u230	Then I'll go see Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u231	I'm... Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u232	No. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u233	Yeah, he's gonna ask me a question I don't have an answer to, but she's gonna get it from Tamara from Ark, and that's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u234	I think it is very nice to know that that is the answer, but I had not asked such a difficult question at all in the first term. I got Van Ark's answer last week. I would now like the Prime Minister's answer, because I specifically asked you to do so, because it is an essential question to avoid problems in the future. So I'm gonna ask him here again anyway. I will ask your colleague all the more difficult questions about the life-threatening fungus and zoonoses, but this one specific question I really asked you in the first place. I would very much like an answer from you to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u235	I get it, and I'd like to. Mrs Van Ark is kind enough to give me the answer she has just given me, but I am going to read it out. I'm not a chancellor with Richtlinienkompetenz. Nor do we have a presidential system; we have a Prime Minister's system in the Netherlands and that means that the trade ministers answer this type of question. If I had to give some kind of seal of approval by answering all those questions myself, that would be crazy, too. That's what there is, by definition. We speak with one mouth, except when something is leaking, and Mrs Van Ark is about to say something, and that is also on my behalf, entirely on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u236	I believe that. However, I am afraid that this cabinet underestimates the seriousness of the situation I describe. I mentioned two examples, and I think they are just facts from history. One is the Q-fever example in which the Van Dijk Committee has also indicated that you should not place these situations in two ministries, because that is a source of misery. In my opinion, even in the case of the supplementing affair, your own minister indicates that it is a source of misery. Now I say: I think we are going to have an answer here, in which responsibility for a possible zoonoses, a very dangerous virus, is still being invested in two ministries. That is why I am curious about your view of this. That is a question I am asking, and I think that is really an essential question, also for a Prime Minister, for preventing a new coronavirus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u237	I think the risk here is different from the supplemental affair. I have, of course, also followed the interviews on that point. I think it is different here, because here public health is leading and always at the forefront. It is also not entirely avoidable in a cabinet that sometimes rulers work together in areas. That's gonna have to come out next week when that report comes out. One of the lessons that I draw from the interviews is that working in several departments on policy preparation and legislation, especially when implementation and policy are separate, can lead to complexity that prevents things from being seen in time or actions are not taken in time or things go wrong. That is different here, because there is such a clear majority interest. The overriding importance of public health is a leading factor here. I would also like to refer to my incredibly valued colleague Tamara van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u238	I am very uncomfortable with this discussion, because it occurs almost in every debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u239	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u240	... that the questions of the Party for Animals somehow linger or are half answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u241	Not with me so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u242	No, but it is important that, if answers are given, account is also taken...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u243	She's figured it all out now. I can tell you that Tamara from Ark is armed to the teeth on this subject. Let's talk about this, Mrs. Van Esch. Tamara of Ark is about to drill this whole thing out with you. I support the content of what she says, so that's where we say the same thing. But if you say that something is going wrong in the process or that you are missing a piece of answer, I will hear you with Mrs Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u244	I saw Mrs. Van Ark write in print at the time of my contribution, so I believe it. But it's not about not believing that I'm gonna get some really good answers. The point is that I am concerned about political responsibility. And I repeat again: the Q-fever situation. In this we have seen that the ministry of LNV was leading the way, causing a lot of people to become ill and deaths have been caused by a zoonoses in the Netherlands. That situation has been evaluated and it has been stated that we should not have this again. I would like to refer specifically to this situation. It feels like we haven't learned from that at the moment, and I really mean that. I'd like to try to avoid that. It is a plea, also to you as President of the Council of Ministers: really try to prevent that! So far, we haven't seen that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u245	I take that very much to heart. I believe that public health is so important that this risk is reduced, partly as a result of all evaluations of what has happened in the past. But I take that to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u246	The Prime Minister hasn't answered one more question from me. As a result of my motion, which has been adopted, I had asked for the directly or indirectly mandatory vaccination of force or urge, so the motion says not to allow it to happen and to make that part of the communication strategy, when the Prime Minister addresses the people on television or elsewhere. It will be a theme in the coming weeks and months. That's a good thing. A lot of people are happy that those vaccines are there, so am I, but not everyone wants them. I think it is important for the Prime Minister or the Minister of VWS to say that out loud at one of those press conferences, so that the Netherlands knows it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u247	Let's do it. Yeah, we're gonna make that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u248	I have a little question. I heard the Prime Minister say in reply to Mrs Marijnissen's question about the memo for the lockdown versus the test capacity that that had not been dealt with. My question is, how does he know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u249	I was at the Cat House. It wasn't treated there. I checked it out, but it wasn't discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u250	How did you check that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u251	Because I asked those who were there if we talked about that. The answer was no. It was on the table. By the way, it will be more often that of the stacks of memos we provide not all memos have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u252	I would like to get an overview of which memos have been dealt with and which have not been taken from the overview we have received. Apparently that's traceable. That seems to be relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u253	We are going to try, but I must say that it will not always be possible to do so all the way back to March. We'll try to tell you that all the time. That has to be based on asking people whether we talked about it or not. If that's further back, I don't know if it always works. Most memos, of course. We're going to spoil you under the sheets. That is the result of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u254	Thank you. I shall now suspend for a moment for the change of directors and for the cleaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u255	I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u256	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to answer the questions about vaccination, testing and vulnerable groups. And then I have a number of questions that are not classified in this three-part division. First of all, the questions about vaccination. I shall begin with the question that Mr Jetten has put, because it has been asked, sometimes implicitly, sometimes explicitly, also by many others. That question is also right, because vaccination is the best asset we have in our hands to say goodbye to this terrible crisis, the best way to get out of it. So it makes sense that everyone looks like that. That also has a risk, namely a kind of we-are-a-near-feeling. We can't afford that. Mr Dijkhoff rightly said that. The reality will be that we will not have vaccinated enough people in the coming months to say goodbye to measures. At the same time, everyone can imagine that this moment is coming. The question is, of course, when will that moment come? We will have to put that question to the OMT. We will only be able to answer that question really well when we also know more about the exact planning in which we can do that vaccination and also for which groups. But there is no doubt about it: if you have vaccinated the most vulnerable people and can test with the most mobile people in a very intensive way, I will come back to what our strategy is at this point. That question is currently being prepared, including interdepartmental, towards the OMT. The OMT will advise on this at the beginning of the new year. That is, of course, the key question. But that key question has not yet been answered in other countries either. Everyone feels on their clogs that this is going to be the course, but how exactly and when exactly, we don't know. If you look at the numbers of vaccines we expect to get delivered, the sum of the numbers we will receive before the summer should be enough to vaccinate the large group of vulnerable people. This, of course, depends very much on the approval of the EEA. We expect the first vaccine to be approved just before the end of the year. But when the approval of the other vaccines follows, especially in relation to the large numbers as plotted over time in the quarters of the year, that is the supply statement as we know it. But if everything were to be effective and everything was allowed by the EEA, we would expect that if we get those 20 million vaccines for the summer and based on two shots per person only for Janssen's vaccine we would probably not have to have vaccinated the most vulnerable people, provided that the vaccines are suitable and permitted. Then a number of questions have been asked about the vaccination strategy. Mr Segers also asks what is actually the point of choosing these target groups. If I listen to it that way, there is support for the choice of target groups such as the cabinet that is in favour, but Mr Segers' question is what the consideration has been. We have based ourselves on the Health Council. Around the summer we asked for the advice of the Health Council. It advised us on 19 November and on 20 November the cabinet adopted its vaccination strategy. We have presented the order of the target groups as we see them before us to the Chamber. In short, we have chosen those who are most vulnerable to the virus and those who take care of them. That is actually the core of the priority statement, divided into a number of groups, after which the rest of the Netherlands follows. Inside we have had to make another subdivision. That has everything to do with the delivery. I'll get to that in a minute. What is the background to the strategy? The Health Council has developed a number of strategies, which are based on several considerations. The core of the strategy is that you protect the people most affected by the virus first. This is, of course, based first of all on all kinds of medical-ethical considerations, but also on social and socio-economic considerations. Indeed, if you are the first to vaccinate the group with the most vulnerable people, the group most affected by the virus, this means that this will also bring you the window that you can say goodbye to measures. This means that this strategy is simply a sensible strategy from several perspectives. If you compare the different strategies in Western Europe, you can see that they all look alike. In fact, every country chooses this strategy. That is the main strategy, with the main groups as we see them. Inside you will be forced to be agile in the execution and make choices each time. The news that we received yesterday from BioNTech/Pfizer is the first vaccine that will be ready, because the first delivery is different than expected from the European Commission's delivery reports. This is one of the dependencies that we have to take into account: the deliveries we get. We know the total size of the delivery, because we have signed on to it. We know the main overview of the quarters when it comes to what one expects of the band to be able to roll. And we know it's always dependent on EEA admission. So things can always change in the execution. That means you have to stay agile. I have said before that there is a number of important pieces of puzzle, which we have to take into account time and time again. One: when does EEA allow? That is an authorisation opinion and then the European Commission has to take the decision on admission. Is it sufficiently effective and safe for exactly that target group that you would like to be the first to vaccinate? That's the first big puzzle piece we always have to take into account. Two: the size of the deliveries we are dealing with. Again, about the total size a contractual arrangement has been made, but when which products roll from the band and in what numbers, is a matter of the more precise delivery schedules we get delivered over time. We've seen that happen with BioNTech/Pfizer. This means that we must be manoeuvrable in the implementation. Three: all the logistical requirements, which we are learning more and more about. In particular, the first vaccine is in handling has most complex: store at minus 70, be able to store for a short time outside the superfreezer and deliver in very large batches. That makes it not very suitable for small-scale distribution. In every country you can see that the switch was made or that it had already been sorted out to do it this way. In short, we are dealing with these dependencies. Knowing that, we said: let's do the basic implementation in a way that we are used to doing with the flu vaccination. The size of the target population of the most vulnerable people is similar to the target population of flu vaccination. This means that we use the same implementing parties. They know the procedure, they know how to invite and so on. That helps. Basically, this gives some publicity in an otherwise extremely new vaccination campaign in terms of size and complexity. We also agreed with the implementing parties that we should remain manoeuvrable. So that turns out to be with the first vaccine. We wanted to vaccinate the care workers in the nursing homes, disability care and home care and the residents of the nursing homes and disability care institutions first. We have seen that this vaccine is asking for a slightly larger approach. This means that central locations in the region need to be set up. That's why we asked for the help of the G.D.D.'s. The GGD must therefore get to work sooner than has been foreseen to date. There is a lot to be arranged to get that done there, both in the personal sense and in a number of political groups asked for it, as well as in the designation of locations and so on. The GGDs that need to get started earlier are supported by the people who would actually start working for this group: the company doctors and the workers' services. Mr. Chairman. With this introduction I have answered a number of questions. I'm going to go into a few more specific questions. I shall begin with the question that was asked about the week of 4 January. Why did I say that like this? I have often said in this Chamber that I will always share the information I have with your Chamber and with society. That's how the cabinet wants to communicate in this crisis. We share what we know, but also what we don't know or don't know yet. If the information changes, we tell them that the information has changed. That's how we're supposed to do it. I understand very well, especially when it comes to vaccination, that that's complicated. We all look forward to it. I think that many would prefer to color the box on the calendar that it is his turn. It's complicated to be able to say that at the moment. And yet that does not relieve us of the obligation to share what we know with the Netherlands and the Chamber. What information did I get that night before that? That the EEA would issue an authorisation opinion on 29 December and that the Commission would need a few days to reach an authorisation decision. That will be 31 December and at that time all delivery schedules were still such that the first delivery of BioNTech/Pfizer would be made in Q4 of 2020. In short, the admission would have been arranged and the first delivery would have been made. That means that at that time, in the first week of January, the week of January 4th, you could start vaccination. What's changed since then? That is, and hence my new announcement yesterday, the delivery schedule and that we now know that BioNTech/Pfizer will only be delivered after approval, so that the first delivery will only arrive in that first week. So that is what we expect and what we expect. That means that the first week would be very soon. The wording I choose best fits the delivery schedule we currently know and reads: as early as possible in January. Mr Jetten says that we are getting less vaccines than we thought, and so we are starting to vaccinate later. What exactly is that about? Well, that's right. I took the delivery schedule as I knew it from the European Commission and that was 25 November. Tuesday morning we reached the new delivery message from BioNTech/Pfizer. This means that the total size does not change as much as the first delivery. And that means that within the group that we wanted to vaccinate with BioNTech/Pfizer, namely the group of care workers in disability care, home care and nursing home care, we start with the group of nursing home care. That is, in particular, a numerical issue: you get half a million vaccines and two shots within three weeks. So one group of 265,000, assuming a certain vaccination rate and assuming a certain spilllage... A splendor of a new word and I predict that that will become part of our jargon. This allows us to operate this group exactly and that is why we choose this group. At the same time, a new delivery is coming soon. There will be a new delivery in February of about seven hundred-so many thousand. By the way, at the end of January there will be a very small delivery of BioNTech/Pfizer. So then we also continue with those care workers that we wanted to vaccinate in the first group. The Moderna vaccine, 400,000 units, is also expected in the short term. An exact delivery date has not yet been indicated, but an expected authorisation date of the EEA. That will be mid-January, and I expect the Moderna vaccine soon afterwards, so that we can actually vaccinate parallel care workers and residents of nursing homes and disability care institutions. Maybe I should take a breath here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u257	That's okay, but is this part finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u258	No. A lot of questions have been asked about vaccinations and I think I really need to go through that. But of course there is always an opportunity to do an interruption, but that is up to you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u259	I understand it's a whole puzzle and you're dealing with all kinds of different factors. I also understand that of the delivery, but if that vaccine is delivered at the beginning of January, are you already out of the puzzle piece for which target group it is best suited?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u260	We do not know that for sure until the EEA has given its opinion on admissions. Then there will be an opinion from the Health Council in a very short time. For the time being, in planning the operation, we have to assume that it will be suitable for the group that you want to vaccinate first. You can't do that, because otherwise you can't plan the operation or you're going to run very late with the operation. We are planning the operation, on the basis of an authorisation decision by the European Commission, on the basis of an EEA authorisation opinion, which at least covers the suitability for that first group. That very first group for BioNTech/Pfizer will be the care workers in the nursing home care. So there is less or less there that that would be very complicated for vulnerable groups, because that does not happen with the nursing home care staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u261	But that'll come soon after, huh, and especially for the older group. For that, it is also important to know that it is also appropriate. It also seems very important to me to communicate well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u262	Exactly. That's the point. Of course people want to know: how effective is it, how are the research results, what came out of those clinical trials? This is information that becomes public following the EEA's authorisation opinion. Then the Health Council is also looking into that. Of course, this also applies: the information we have will be shared, always.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u263	Please continue. Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u264	Let me continue with Mr Sazias' question. I saw a piece in the Volkskrant this morning about the assessment by the American authority of Pfizer's vaccine. I think that was very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u265	The FDA is very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u266	That's why. Older, younger, man, woman, I know what. Well, that's not gonna happen, thank God. But let's say there's another vaccine coming from another manufacturer that doesn't match the group you had in mind. Do you indeed have a kind of backup plan ready for whom it is eligible, or is it completely focused on a particular group? What flexibility you have built in is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u267	Maximum manoeuvrability. We have also shown this when choosing to go to central locations by region and ask the GGD: wouldn't you want to get on your feet sooner? The company doctors and the institutions are going to support you in that. But maximum flexibility. The main route, the main strategy, is the strategy we have defined based on the advice of the Health Council. It is, in a very short summary: vulnerable groups and the people who take care of them first. Then the line by which we are going to lay that puzzle is the delivery schedule as we know it for the six vaccines we have contracted. In doing so, we depend on the authorisation decision, on the size of the delivery and on all practical matters, all distribution requirements, which are related to that delivery. So we'll lay the puzzle and, as time goes on, we'll be able to indicate an ever more precise roadmap for how we're going to vaccinate. Take Moderna, which we now think is exactly the size of the delivery as we know it in the delivery schedule, for the residents of the nursing homes and the residents of disability care. Should the EEA's admission advice show that this is fine, but it happens to be just not for vulnerable people, we cannot do so, and we will therefore have to wait for the next delivery that is appropriate, possibly even another delivery from BioNTech/Pfizer. So you have to switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u268	Clear. Thank you for that answer. I had asked another question about the 70-year-olds, but I assume you will deal with that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u269	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u270	I had another question, perhaps a very difficult question. If I think honestly, I don't have a direct answer to it either, but I'm not a minister either. Yesterday or the day before yesterday there was an article in a newspaper about it, I believe, the secretary of the RIVM who was in charge of the vaccination programme. He said, and I found that interesting: listen, we don't even know if people who have been vaccinated are still contagious. That would, of course, have a huge negative effect. Let's say we're gonna inoculate everyone and hope and think they won't be contagious anymore. What if it's not? Then what does that do with your plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u271	This is one of the unknowns we're dealing with. It is true: if the infection were to continue despite the fact that people have been vaccinated, and if people think that they no longer have to comply with the measures because they no longer have to do so because they cannot get sick of them, it could even have a very negative effect. By the way, in the beginning of the vaccination campaign, the 'we are almost there' feeling can have a fairly negative effect on compliance with the measures. Well, it is true that when people can no longer get sick themselves, that very high viral load is also not on the agenda. So if people can't get sick of it themselves, at least they'll be less contagious. But the virus can still stick in the throat, and that means that people could still be contagious. We will probably be the first to learn this from the English, because we will start the study on this at the time we start vaccination. In the clinical trials such a study cannot be conducted, because the groups are not large enough for that. But the research for that can be done when you actually start a vaccination campaign. The English are just a few weeks earlier, so we'll probably know about that sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u272	Good. I understand that there was a lot of talk about vaccines during the technical briefing. Also in the letter there is a lot about it. We still have four rulers, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u273	Yes. I'm gonna try to do it as soon as possible, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u274	Before you continue, I also see Mr Klaver standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u275	There is talk in the letter about pivoting. I had to look up that notion. We will have to throw away about 10% to 20% of the vaccines that are there. What plan is being made to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u276	The first choice to keep this spilllage as small as possible is that we go to central locations in the region for the vaccinations of care workers, while we first wanted to vaccinate them in the institutions themselves. But batches of 1,000 do not match well with small-scale settings. The choice to first vaccinate nursing home care employees at central locations is therefore motivated, among other things, by the desire to prevent spilling and because repacking of large batches is difficult. It has also been consulted with Pfizer that the large pizza boxes of 995 vaccines are not the most practical packaging and should be smaller in order to be able to apply them better. Probably not from the next delivery but from the delivery afterwards Pfizer will also deliver in smaller packages. So that's a second way. In addition, it is mainly a matter of regulating logistics as tight as possible, so that you can make maximum use of the four days shelf life outside the superfreezer, so as to avoid spilling. That 10%-20% is an estimate of the RIVM in which it did not count on itself. It is therefore a gloomy assessment of the spill-over and, of course, every effort is made to avoid it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u277	You're talking about four days of shelf life. I think that's five days. One of the ideas is that you plan four days with everyone who works in nursing homes. So far, the figures show that there is not a very big mood there yet, so I am very afraid that there will not be enough people, no matter how many people apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u278	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u279	Is that why you can't make sure other people can sign up for that fifth day? Other groups can also use it. Let me run it through, and we're gonna throw away 100,000 vaccines from the first batch in the worst scenario. I'd say that's a shame. You don't want that. That's a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u280	No, you don't. Exactly. That's a shame. So let me answer a question that Mr Heerma asked. For this reason, the GGD is now developing a login system similar to the notification system that allows you to register to be tested. The same registration system is now being developed for the people who are being vaccinated. We do not know a number of things yet, for example how high the vaccination rate will be. With all the vaccinations we do, we know how to estimate them quite well, but this is of course a whole new vaccination and you can see that the numbers are amazingly volatile. I hope they will be much higher than they are now coming out of many polls, but of course we are not. Since you're not quite sure, signing up is the best way to avoid waste. So sign up, make sure you sting centrally, make sure you then agree with Pfizer that that small-scale package. That is the mix with which we want to reduce this spill-off as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u281	Yes. Mr Pieter Heerma and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u282	It's a good thing that registration is being set up. When you read the letter, it turns out the biggest category is that of the doubters. At what time is such a login system ready and when can we start communicating about it? Because the fact that the system is there, the fact that it is there, could positively affect that group of doubters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u283	Then you're talking about the logistics login system at the GGD? I don't know if that's gonna pull doubters over the line. But we do a few things at the same time. Logistics helps to use those central locations of the GGD. That's one. Two is encouraging employers to have you vaccinated. That must be done well over time, otherwise you run the risk that you may suddenly, for example because of side effects, have a considerable staffing problem and a replacement problem in your institution. So do it a little spread over time, but make sure you get vaccinated: that encouragement must be done from employers towards their people. From the professional organisations, these must be done to the people. Information should be provided on the basis of action and adverse reactions if the EEA has taken its authorisation test. For example, we will communicate very intensively with the people who are involved, because I do believe that more information and more knowledge gives people more confidence to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u284	I'm going to repeat my question: when will the system be ready? Because it's very important that people sign up to fight that spilllage. That was part of the Minister's commitment. I'd like to know when it's done anyway. And I'm gonna say again that the second that such a system runs and people can sign up, you're gonna get people asking each other: hey, have you signed up yet? I insist that the system, although it is logistics, can also draw doubters across the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u285	Everything is aimed at starting as early as possible in January, including with this login system. That's being developed right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u286	The first delivery of the vaccines took place in half, so there are still a lot of uncertainties. European purchases have been made, so it will also be possible to transfer European quantities of vaccines. But maybe we're still short. A country like Canada has bought a lot of vaccines. Are there any contacts with that? Suppose that's over, would vaccines be available there for our country and for Europe? Have those contacts been established, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u287	I started with Mr Spahn from Germany, my Italian colleague and my French colleague to get contracts before those vaccines were even ready. The European Commission then took over this task on behalf of the EU-27. We then agreed within the European Commission that every country that subscribes to it will receive its fair share of all deliveries. Every time we sign up to it, I send a letter to your Chamber because it also affects the budget responsibility of the Chamber. This shows that we have registered on everything. Wherever other countries opt for an opt-out, we say: we want what remains well. Thus we have now reached a total of almost 60 million vaccines, so that is a huge amount. All over the world, of course, there is a shortage. I do not expect that other deliveries could become available to the Netherlands. But if we can get an additional delivery within the European Union because another country does not opt in, we will do so because we think it is important to get as much as possible as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u288	So that is about solidarity within the European Union. There is. We could also establish links with a country like Canada, a related country that has bought a lot of vaccines. Maybe that's possible, too. That's a suggestion I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u289	That suggestion has not reached me before. I'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u290	If we have a lot left, if we have too much, then we can share.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u291	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u292	There are also countries with very little money, with a very poor population, which also need vaccines. How is solidarity with these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u293	All international initiatives that deal with this type of solidarity, the Netherlands participates or is even a leader of the Netherlands. Whether it is about financial contributions or contributions in kind, the Netherlands is always more important in this respect. We do indeed expect that if several candidate vaccines appear to be effective, we will have far too much. That doesn't matter at all, because we will be happy to donate to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u294	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u295	Finally. In what way is there shared, donated, on what basis, with whom? Can we get more information about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u296	I have described this very extensively in several letters, but I am more than willing to do so in another progress letter. I think that if I'm gonna push it all the way up, the chairman is gonna look at me more and more closely. But we're in on all the international initiatives, Gavi, CEPI, everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u297	Yes. I agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u298	It just ended well, Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Wilders' question: yes, but what about those vulnerable elderly people at home? I understand that very well. At the moment, we say that they are not in the very first group, because we choose to protect the most vulnerable in nursing homes and disability care institutions, and through their staff we also ensure ring protection around those people. The second group are the 60-plussers with a medical indication at home. That's the second group now. But once again, as I have just said, this method of vaccination will require agility from us, including in the implementation strategy. So there might be a vaccine that is suitable for one group either because of the size of the supply or because of other specifications, but not for the other group. Then the order of things could also change. But as the order is now, the group as you indicate is group two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u299	In that last scenario, that could happen right away. But I still wonder if they can't go in group one too. That is why I am not talking about all 70-plussers, because fortunately there are very vital and healthy 70-plussers, most of them I think. But there are also 70-plussers who live at home and who are really not in good shape, who have a lot of chronic or other complaints and who, when it comes to their illness, may not be much underdoing or even equal to those 70-plussers in the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u300	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u301	Wouldn't it be worth thinking about not having all 70-plussers, but the 70-plussers with a chronic illness or at least with a heavier disease, the most vulnerable among the 70-plussers living at home, in that first group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u302	There are a number of reasons why this is really a separate group. Group one is therefore the nursing population, the people in the disability care institutions and the caregivers around them. For numerical reasons, we have said: well, then also home care. That's more for practical numerical reasons. In second grade, there's that 60-pluser with a medical indication, and in third grade, there's the 60-pluser with no medical indication. That is the order as the Health Council has indicated. In addition, there is a practical side to this, namely that the 60-plusser will be vaccinated by the general practitioner at home with a medical indication, just as with the flu vaccination. That requires a different logistics channel. In addition to a substantive one, there is therefore simply a practical reason why this was done in this way. This also makes it possible for me to answer Mr Dijkhoff's question: why not also the 60-pluser to a central location, which would be practical? Yeah, it is, but part of it isn't very mobile. The general practitioner cannot make a distinction in this respect. That is why we said: the same route as the flu vaccination, via the general practitioner. That goes for the second group. That second group could be quite soon, if you see the delivery statements. I understand very well that Mr Wilders says that this could be different if, for example, the shift of the delivery schedule would only bring that group much later. That's right. Then we will have to switch again. That's how we want to do it every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u303	Finally, on this point. I understand what you have to say about logistics. I can't ignore that, because that's a completely different way of doing it. I've consciously, if you look at the numbers, not talking about 60-plussers, but 70-plussers. I think those 70-plussers are about 1.5 million people in the Netherlands. Then I'm talking about the total. So out of those 1.5 million 70-plussers, there's the same number if you're talking about 60-plussers, that's a lot more people and that's what we're gonna give it, of course... a part, a much smaller part than the total, the most vulnerable 70-plussers are at home. I get it from the logistics. I don't really have an answer to that either. But ask the Minister: think about whether it might not be automatic in some way, and perhaps it will be faster than I think, perhaps in the first tranche or shortly afterwards. I know a number of 70-plussers at home. Everyone knows them. They really don't differ from that 70-plusser in an institution. It just wouldn't be fair if, apart from logistics, we couldn't help people just as quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u304	I very much share that. That's what I'm underlining. Let me add that it will probably be shortly afterwards. But you don't have to take the total size of the 60-plus target group. You could also take a first part of those 60-plussers, for example. Of course, the general practitioners prefer the 60-plus group in one go. Then you can plan logistics more practically. But if a part of that group can be served because the size of the delivery is so large, you might also be able to distinguish it. The distinction between those who have or do not have a medical risk among the 60-plussers is quite difficult for general practitioners. The Health Council says: if you look at the vulnerability of the elderly and what we see back on the ic, there is not that much distinction between people with and without medical risk among the 60-plussers. With the 60-minners, of course. You should make the distinction with 60-minners through the GP for the vulnerable, but not with the 60-plussers. You could invite them over to the GP. Could you do the 85-plusser or the 80-plusser? Yeah, you can. That would be a more precise definition. We'd rather not. The doctors don't want to do that either. But if it's convenient in terms of the size of the delivery so you can start vaccination faster, we will. It's a complicated puzzle for all of us. I totally get it. It's my day job, and of course it's not for you. Let me promise that I will continue to visualize the puzzle as sharply as possible, based on new information that we get from the suppliers. Then I hope to give you an update on the state of play one last time before Christmas. Whether there will be another debate or not, I do not know, but at least I will give you one more update before Christmas on the state of planning for the logistics operation, and how we can make the road map ever more and more stringent. Then there is Mr Dijkhoff's question. Do people get some kind of vaccination certificate? They do not receive a vaccination certificate, but we are talking to the execution parties to see if it is possible to give vaccinees on paper what vaccine they have received. The vaccination certificate is the same ethical debate we had last time, whether you should even want to ask in society whether you have actually been vaccinated. In the care you might imagine, but outside there are a lot of ethical questions to ask if you want to. I indicated in the letter that I am asking for advice from the Health Council. The Health Council indicated that it would be able to advise on this in February. Mr Dijkhoff asks if there are training situations for vaccination. The entire export operation is now being set up. The basic route is consciously the vaccine route of the flu vaccine, because there is already a lot of experience with that way of vaccination. But sure, just before you start you always try out a route like this. Anything that can be tested in advance will be done. Why can we get to work in England? In England, the vaccine has become available through a so-called emergency procedure. The UK Medicines Agency MHRA has made use of an exception clause allowing EU Member States to allow vaccines in emergencies outside the European Supervisory Authority. The Netherlands could also choose to do so, but we are not doing so deliberately. We do not want to cut the bend, quite deliberately not. The EEA is not put under pressure to assess more quickly. The EEA conducts its own process. It's gotta be safe. It has to be reliable. We need to be able to rely on the results of the EEA review. We are not going to put any pressure on that in any way, because we do not believe that it would help us to be prepared for vaccination if we did. I have already promised Mr Wilders that I would like to make it clear that vaccination is voluntary and remains voluntary. Every time I have the opportunity to do so, I will point that out. Is there enough staff? I have already answered part of that question. In the basic route we choose, which is also chosen for the flu vaccination, several implementing parties are involved. As a result, we already have a lot of human resources in the base. Of course, the GGDs need to switch faster now. GGDs are already recruiting internally for this. In addition, the GGD also assumes that both from the institutions people are delivered as well as from the group of company doctors, because they would actually vaccinate the group of care staff. In addition, we have agreed with the Defense Department that they are standing by, especially in the first period. If it is not possible to get sufficient staff on that very short term, they will help with the central locations. So they do not all have to have a BIG registration, I say in the direction of Mr Klaver, because you can also vaccinate under responsibility, under medical supervision of another. Training is necessary. To this end, the GGD has a short-term training programme, which has long been experienced, for how to set it up and how to implement it. Mr Heerma asks if the workers will be deployed. So the answer is yes. Then the care staff, two thirds of whom don't know if they're going to vaccinate. I've seen two tests: from NU'91 and from V&VN. Actually, they give the same result: a third says 'anyway', a third says 'I still doubt; I look at the cat from the tree' and a third says 'I don't think so'. My prediction is ""but I'm always an optimistic person "that the willingness to be vaccinated will increase considerably, because the social pressure is just growing and the social standard is high. Because if you haven't been vaccinated, you could possibly be part of a new infection in the nursing home, just to give you an example. I think a lot of health care workers will say, "No, I don't want that." So a lot of care workers will definitely be vaccinated. That's what I expect, but that's not what I'm seeing in the investigations right now. I do see that as the starting date gets closer, vaccination readiness increases, on average in the Netherlands. Today, by chance, there was another investigation by EenVandaag which shows that. I think that, on its own, is good news. We're going to communicate very intensively over the next period. That too will undoubtedly contribute. The SGP asks about the registration system. Who can see that? The answer is RIVM. The RIVM is also working on a possibility for people to see for themselves through DigiD, but that is not available at the moment. In any case, the registration system is intended to monitor the vaccination rate, safety monitoring and the monitoring of adverse reactions, and to be able to act quickly in the event of any calamities. It is therefore very important that this central registration should also be introduced, but there are still a number of legal shortcomings that we are dealing with at the moment. If that is not entirely possible without amending the law, I will of course report to your Chamber, but I hope to be able to do so without amending the law. Well, Mr. Chairman, I guess I've had the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u305	Then I have Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Sazias. Short, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u306	I also referred to the letter, which states that it could also be at the expense of testing capacity. I actually asked the Minister if he could rule that out. Is he going to bet that enough people are being trained? We have received the answer that there are training pathways from the GGD more often. I know, but I've also been informed, and as far as I know, no one's been trained yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u307	No, because the GD's haven't known for so long that they have to get on their feet much sooner. That has to do with the switch we had to make because of the delivery. But the G.D.D.s are working on it. I also know that in-house invitations have been made to the various health services. That's one. The second is that, of course, we have asked the GGDs what are the most important bottlenecks. There are a lot of bottlenecks, but they think they can work out pretty well. But they do say that they will probably set up those 30 central locations at the XL locations. It may be that you are using one or two test streets of such a large location or perhaps more of those streets for vaccination or that you will have to use some of the staff temporarily for this. The GGD has warned us that this could temporarily lead to a slightly less available test capacity. We have said: then map it and let us at least make every effort to ensure that it does not happen. We are now going through the 100,000 tests a day. In January, the test capacity at the GGD locations will run out of 130,000. So we've taken on our own, in relation to the test demand at the moment, sufficient test capacity. Anyway, we have a lot more plans for that test capacity. So I would rather arrange for what we now ask of the GGDs to not be at the expense of the test capacity. That's what all the stakes are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u308	No, that's all hope. That's another thing than all the stakes. A few weeks ago, a motion was adopted from various parties... by the colleague of the VVD, the SP and from ourselves............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We don't know when the vaccine comes, we don't know which vaccine comes first. There are all kinds of variables that we have no influence on. I'm never gonna hold this minister responsible for that either. But what we do know is that you need people to put that shot. We already knew then that we know for a long time that we probably don't have enough people. Then teach them extra! So my very specific question is: how many additional people are going to be trained in the next two weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u309	My answer to that motion was also that the four implementing parties are primarily responsible. There will be a central recruitment of people, for which those implementing parties are primarily responsible. That's one. The second thing is, they started it, too. The third is that the GD's in that very first group will of course be assisted by the company doctors and by the people who are delivered from the institutions. They also recruit staff themselves. Finally, I made the deal with the Defense Department that they're standing by when there aren't enough people. In short, every effort is being made to have enough people to ensure that we do what you want, namely that it is not at the expense of the test capacity that has been built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u310	We've had this answer before. We have heard before that the company doctors can be deployed, that it could also be done through the general practitioners, that we can use the Defense Department. My point is that we said at the time that if we were to use all the capacity that we know now, it might be that we don't have enough people. So my very simple question is: how many people are being trained at the moment? And what is the ambition to train people in the next two weeks? The Minister's saying 'that's up to the executive parties' is not enough. They're gonna have to do that. But we are not going to finish this debate tonight when we do not know how many additional people are being trained. How many people are being trained?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u311	We're laying that puzzle right now. All the executive organizations are laying that puzzle right now. And so people are being trained to be ready to start as early as possible in January when we can start. That's the job the G.D.D.'s did. They are supported by the company doctors and by the people who are supplied from the institutions. With Defence, we have centrally agreed to stand ready for if it does not succeed enough to do so as early as possible in January. That's what we're gonna do about it. That's how we make sure we have enough people when we need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u312	Finally, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u313	The minister is suddenly saying that the G.D.D. is educating people. That's great. How many people are they training right now? Because just now the answer was something quite different, namely that they can do that, that they have training programmes for that, but that is not the issue right now and that can mean that... What's the answer? Is the GGD training people right now? How many extra people will be trained in the next two weeks? I really don't think it's acceptable that we just don't know that now. We've been asking for this for weeks, just like we did with the test policy. We've been following the facts all along. Thank God there's a vaccine coming now. Then we must have enough people to do this. And you can. There are plenty of people who are willing and there are training programmes. The G.D.D. can do that very well. But I just want to hear it very concretely from the Minister. He just said here: the GD is already training. Then today I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u314	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u315	That's what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u316	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u317	He gave two answers. The first answer was: I am not yet training those people. The second answer was that the GDPS are already doing so. Should we ask for the report? That was the second answer. When he says "the GGD is already training people," I just want to know how many people are being trained right now. If that is not the case, then I want to know what the ambition is for how many people need to be trained in the next two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u318	We need to be ready the moment we need to be ready. This means that in the coming weeks, in the coming month, the GGDs will have a big job, and not just the GGDs. We can't just look at the G.D.D.'s to fix it for us. We had to make a huge switch in order to be able to vaccinate the care workers at those central locations. That has everything to do with the characteristics and extent of the very first deliveries. This means that the GGDs are currently identifying locations and looking at how they're going to man them, knowing that they're being supported by the institutions and the company doctors. They will sometimes also use people who normally use them for vaccination programmes, for example from youth health care sometimes, rather not too much. They will provide the staff at the time of start-up. In order to avoid a shortage, we have asked the Defense Department to stand by.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u319	Okay, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u320	That's the answer I can give right now. People who are not medically trained to be able to prick can do so in a number of days. That is the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u321	It's repeated over and over again, but it's probably about exact numbers. If those aren't clear yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u322	They simply cannot be given at the moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u323	It could be. Otherwise the same question is always asked and the same answer is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u324	I understand. I will also confine myself to this subject, because I think this is really important. This is what we heard when it came to training people for source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u325	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u326	We all know how that ended up before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u327	Yes: there are currently 7,500 people full-time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u328	I think I was still talking. We all know how that went before the summer. We didn't get it right in time. I do now. I'm asking because I do want to know how many people... I don't want to know if the G.D.D. can train. I know; they're very good at that. I want to know if they're already doing that and how many more people are being trained. That is the answer I really want to have this debate by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u329	Yeah, but you can't give that answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u330	Good. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u331	Finally, that is absolutely... Sorry. I think that's really weird. All kinds of contracts have finally been concluded, and that is what the Minister has done well to get the vaccines in. They're coming soon now. Now I ask the question: how many people are being trained at the moment and how many people do they really need to be trained in the next few weeks? And then the Minister says: that question cannot be answered. That's really crazy. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u332	I ask for a little more respect, I would almost say, for the execution and a little more appreciation for that complex work. We only recently had to switch to some more central locations. The G.D.D. is the best at that. So we said to the GGD: you wouldn't really be involved in the vaccination until the healthy people under the 60-minners, but you'll probably have to get started earlier; could you arrange that? The GGDs know what's on their plate and have said: it's a lot of work, but we understand that it's necessary. Then it was said: how many locations do you need about? Probably about 30 central locations. Then you plan there: how are we going to take care of that crew at those locations? In my view, the GGD has rightly said that the people who would actually be at the bar for vaccinating the care workers should then help us. That conversation is, of course, being held. The GDPRs have also said that institutions must then help us. That conversation is being held. If you expect me to give you a central overview of how many people have already been chartered at the moment and how many people still need to be arranged for a start as early as possible in January, that is, of course, impossible to give. The G.D.D.'s have been working on that for a week and a half, this way. It is therefore impossible at the moment to give this in a central way. Of course you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u333	I'm a little freaked out about this, and I'm afraid I'm not the only one. Of course, this also has to do with the history we have with testing and with the history we have with the source and contact research. I think the Minister should understand that the frustration of the Chamber is increasing because we have asked very often on these other points how many people are needed, how fast they can be, what efforts are being made. This virus no one saw coming, but that at some point a vaccine would come to control this virus, we all saw it coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u334	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u335	So I am very shocked that the Minister here tonight says that the GD's have only been working on this for a week and a half. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u336	I explained that to you. Because, as I said from the start, we will have to be agile in the execution. Where we thought that the people of the healthcare institutions would just be vaccinated at the locations of the healthcare institutions by the company doctors and by the staff of the healthcare institutions themselves who can prick them, we have seen that this vaccine, the first delivery, is actually not properly repacked or repacked, and therefore the best thing to do is to be centrally administered. We had to fix that switch. Because we made that switch, we had to ask the GGDs: would you mind bringing your work forward? I think it's great they're doing that. Now the question becomes: but can you tell how many people are needed at that central location? Well, no, I can't say that right now. At some point, I can say that, but right now, I can't say that. What I do know is that the GGDs, practically as they are, are already working on making sure they prepare for that. The GGD's have said: we are not so worried about such a training program and we are not really worried about the manning of these pricks anyway; there are certainly a lot of other bottlenecks, but the human side can really be overcome. The question was whether this would not be at the expense of the test capacity. Of course I don't want to. So we will have to deal with this in such a way that it will not be at the expense of the test capacity. Therefore, these needle streets will be manned by the GGD's themselves, the institutional doctors and the healthcare staff who can be made available to help with that. In addition, I've asked the DOD to stand by. DOD also has people who can prick and who are medically trained. It now supplies the DOD to the test streets as well. So I asked the DOD to be ready, especially at the beginning, to support it, because I want to prevent us from getting into a situation where the vaccine is there, where everything is ready, and so on, but we don't have the crew to prick. That is where your concern lies, and that is right; that is, of course, my concern. In fact, that's my day job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u337	But this is the same answer as the one you also gave to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u338	Yes, because that's the answer that's true, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u339	No, I'm not judging the answer, but all I can see is that the question and the answer are the same. That's why I'm saying something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u340	I understand that, Mr President, from your role, but I also hope you understand that there are serious concerns in the Chamber. If I hear the Minister say in his reply, for example, 'we are looking at whether, for example, we can employ care workers to do this', I think: I am sorry, but I think we are talking about this month in, month out, precisely that care staff, which is already heavily overburdened. I shouldn't think that we're gonna go to other places in the care and people are gonna go to vaccinate. If we could train other people or have been able to train before or if Defence is indeed ready... I would think: not standing by, but simply engaging that trade. What's stopping you from doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u341	Nothing. Nothing. But I think if we ask the GGDs to set up some 30 central locations, they're up to it. Along with those parties that would actually have been incited to take care of that crew for this first group. Of course, the offer of aid has been made. They need to look at what aid they are using in this respect. It's true, of course, that care institutions as nursing homes don't have a lot of people left. That's true. At the same time, we also know that the average working time factor is 0.6 and a little. Why wouldn't it be possible to spend another month on the street? That question will certainly be asked. I think that a lot of people can be called upon to help ensure that we look at this vaccination as quickly as possible. That's really my conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u342	Good. Finally, on this point. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u343	I do not want to know what is happening in the living rooms of the healthcare workers who have this debate on. They now hear a minister say: 'Oh that part-time factor', 'they only work 0.6' and 'what's wrong with a month's extra hours to start poking?'. It's been going on for months that care workers are heavily overburdened, down the hoofs and will have to go on for a long time if we look at the contagion rates. That can't be the answer to this point, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u344	That is not the solution, but it is also a solution. If you need extra people temporarily, you can still ask that question. I know that this question is being asked, and I also know that it has a positive response. Not by everyone, but people can react positively to it by saying: I actually want to help for a while and I really like to do it, because it means a lot to care if we get this vaccination campaign done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u345	Finally, Mr President. The minister did not tell a story last weekend but the weekend before that in an interview I actually agreed with. He made the analysis that many of the important responsibilities in the Netherlands have actually been decentralised, shifted or shifted, if you like, and that can be difficult in tackling a pandemic. I can also hear the Minister say again, I understand that he cannot break his hands and that this is mainly up to the implementing organizations. He claims to have encouraged the GD's, but it's mainly up to them. I would nevertheless like to call on the Minister today, who can count on our support, to act precisely in line with his own interview on this point and to take the lead, to draw the responsibility towards him and not to put it off on the implementation organisations, simply because we have seen before that it is not going to work itself out. We all have a great deal of respect and appreciation for the implementation organisations where very hard work is being done. That is not what this is about, but this must not go wrong!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u346	This is also the reason why the vaccination campaign is, of course, centrally controlled by RIVM, as all vaccination campaigns are centrally controlled by RIVM, through the National vaccination programme. There is a lot of experience with the central control of a vaccination campaign. The performance has indeed been invested with GD's and GPs. That is also important, because there are already people available and there is already the experience to do vaccination. It would be a waste of all the experience that exists with all these implementing organisations, to say now: you should not do that, because we will be able to make that up for a while. There is, of course, a central direction and central implementation. Central storage and distribution are all centrally regulated. Its security is also centrally regulated, as is the purchase of materials. There is central direction on everything and in the execution you will have to do it together, otherwise you just won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u347	Mrs Sazias, then Mr Asscher and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u348	I understand that the Minister was at the end of his questions, but I am so curious to see what solution he has come up with for people who cannot wear masks for medical reasons. I'm not gonna assume...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u349	That's a question I'm gonna ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u350	... that this print that you can just print out at Vilans is the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u351	That's a question I'm gonna ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u352	I was just at the end of the vaccination questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u353	The Minister was not at the end of his speech. There are a few other issues, so this question comes back. The Minister will deal with that later, Mrs Sazias. I shall go to Mr Asscher and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u354	This part of the debate is indeed very similar to the debate before the summer. I hear the minister say, leave it to the G.D.D. They're used to it because it's their job. It was exactly the same with the source and contact research Of course it is up to them to recruit people, but we have learned a very expensive lesson there. Even if they're good at vaccinating, there's something else going on here. There's a lot more to it. Every day we wait longer costs health and economic damage. The letter sent to us by the Minister last night says: I am talking to implementation organisations about hiring extra staff. Then the Minister must understand that we are asking the question: what has been the task and how many people are being trained and by when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u355	Of course, the basic agreement was made months ago. We have been preparing this export operation for months, starting in the summer. The basic agreement is: let us choose the implementing parties that are also in the process of flu vaccination, with the same target group. That's the most practical thing. That's where the most experience is. There are thousands of FTEs there that can do that. That is the most practical approach. We have then agreed, knowing all these dependencies, that we will have to remain manoeuvrable in implementation. The combination of the handling of this first vaccine that would be ready, with the vaccination strategy in the choice of target groups, has made that we have said: we should actually go to central locations. That means that we have said to the GGD: where you would actually be next to the 60-minners, you will now have to help earlier. The GGD has said: okay, we're gonna do it, but we do want us to be helped by those parties that would actually be up to it. Now, if you ask how much is being recruited at the moment and how much is actually available for those locations, the honest story is that that central answer cannot be given at the moment. That answer is being made at the moment with those 25 GGDs. But they don't do it themselves. I understand that there is a bit of a concern there: that I tell you that you can go to sleep quietly because the GGD's will make it work. That's not the deal with the G.D.D.'s. We have just said that the parties that were actually there, in this case the institutions and the company doctors, will have to be put at the central locations of the GGD. There are a lot of execution issues. Staff is just one of them. Every day there is contact with the GGD's to look: where can we help, what do you need, how are you going to do it? So there's central direction to that and that central direction is invested at the RIVM. To this end, VWS has been given the implementing mandate. I have virtually every day contact with the RIVM to send to where it is right now. If we are one step further in laying that complicated puzzle...................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u356	I can see why that puzzle is complicated. That is perfectly clear. It's also a mega operation. I understand that, too. But it seems as if the Minister means 'avertible': just in time done. Otherwise, I can't explain that it's such a surprise now that we need central injection sites. Germany already has 60 of those vaccination centers ready. The Minister says: yes, but we had to change our plan at the very last minute. I don't think that makes any sense. Just if you want to be agile, it makes sense to start recruiting people on time, in time to have those central spot locations ready and so also to say to the GGD in time: we want you to be ready to do so. The Minister's giving a different answer. He says: I'm talking about it, I don't know exactly how many people they're going to train or when. That's not very trusting for the Chamber. Because of history, the minister is against appearances. I'm sorry to have to say that, but he has the appearance against: on the app, on testing, on the source and contact research and now on the vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u357	I will come to the testing and the research on sources and contact, because I think that there is more justice to the reality of the qualifications there. But first, let's talk about this. We have just agreed with the implementing parties that we are choosing the same vaccination route as with the flu vaccination. That has to do with this. This is something that, for example, does not exist in a country like Germany, such a flu vaccination with those implementing parties. There's just no such thing as flimsy. That was the reason why something had to be set up separately there. In the Netherlands these finery and those implementing parties are and that is the reason for that choice. That is a good and responsible choice. The whole field of care is wholeheartedly behind the choice to do it that way. The point is that these large deliveries with the handling requirements of the first vaccine, the first delivery, combined with the vaccination strategy that we have established, namely that the care workers of the most vulnerable people are the first to be dealt with, mean that we have said that we still need to go for central injection sites in the region. Of course, we have had discussions with the GGDs and other parties and asked: is that feasible? Of course. There are a lot of implementation issues to tackle in the coming weeks, but when it comes to recruitment, the GGD considers it quite feasible. Nevertheless, we have said that the other executives, who would actually be on the table for this group, are going to help in this. And we'll make sure we're standing by with the Defense Department. The care you have is no other concern than mine. Of course, it all has to be ready in time, and of course it must not be up to the human resources that you should start later. Of course it is. That is why everything is being done to get to work as early as possible in January. That is why I will inform you as soon as another step has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u358	Mr President, last time on this point. I will try to explain why I am concerned about this answer. In the Minister's answer, the same Dutch exceptionism sounds through what we have heard before: we have a much more finer system here; the dumb Germans do not have it, they had to make something rude. That is the same argument why, like the Danes, we were not going to test massively. We had that fine-meshed, typically Dutch high-quality system. Except that system couldn't handle it. The assignment was too big. That's where the care of the Chamber is. We know it's not just a common flu vaccination. There's gonna be a lot more people. It's more complicated than that. It's a tricky puzzle. All these pieces are thrown out of the box. We want to make sure that you started recruiting staff on time. We do not want the GGD to say again: the assignment was not that clear; we started from a scenario, just like with the source and contact research, but reality did not stick to that. Then that's a huge problem for all of us. So it is not enough to refer to the fact that we have a superior fine-meshed structure. No, I expect the Minister to learn from what happened with the testing and the source and contact research and to recruit in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u359	I do not think that this reflection of things does exactly justice to the months behind it, nor to what has been done by the GGD. I'll get to that in a minute. I do not think that it is entirely right for the GDPD to be willing to do something in the short term, when it was actually expected to do something in the short term, and rightly so, when the 60-minners would have to do something, because they were not in line in the context of the vaccination strategy. And at the same time, of course, your concern is mine. That's my day job, too. And it is also the daily work of many, many people who have been working for months to prepare that vaccination strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u360	Half an hour ago, I received the news report that the EEA was hacked in Amsterdam and secret documents about the vaccines were also seen by the hackers. This concerns me. I wonder if this message has already come to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u361	I'm a simple person. I can only do one thing at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u362	Yeah, but there's a regular call check, so you never know. I would like a response, because I think this is a worrying situation, because we always say that we want to do everything as safely as possible when it comes to vaccines. But at the moment there is a leak at the EEA in Amsterdam, so those secret documents about those vaccines are now in the hands of others. If the Minister can't say anything about that now, I hope he can do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u363	I don't know. I'll see what message it is. I will also look at what information is available to us and how we can react.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u364	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u365	We're going to the testing. Did I mention that at the moment there is a huge test capacity, which also works much faster and which is accompanied by a huge effort in the field of source and contact research? 7,500 FTEs. This allows you to do 4,000 full BCOs a day and over 8,000 more risk-driven BCOs. If you scale them a little further in intensity, you can do 13,000 BCOs. Based on the most lean and mean variant of the source and contact research, you can do 25,000 yourself. That's a huge army that's ready by now. Of course, there have been quite a few start-up problems. We have had this debate much more often. But this is what it says, and I think the GD deserves an insane compliment for that. The test capacity is well scaled up. We can do more than 100,000 a day by now. We're working towards 130,000 a day in January. We want a lot more, because we all believe that a lot more tests are going to help us. Mr Dijkhoff's questions were therefore also about rapid testing and the roll-out of rapid testing. It's a lot of definition issues, so I need to be a little more precise. I'll take the most important steps for you. First of all about the validation: are we ready at the same time as the validation is done? The OMT has assessed positively the deployment of the LAMP test, the accelerated PCR test for people with and without complaints. In the Amsterdam region, this test is already being used and will continue to be deployed at the XL-straten. They've been upholstered for that, so that's where the LAMP tests will be rolled out. Five antigen tests have now been validated for use in people with complaints. The OMT has considered that these tests perform fairly similar. However, the OMT wants to re-confirm for care workers, and that is also justified, because there is a slightly higher risk of false negatives having re-confirmed them through a PCR. Then the validation studies of antigen tests for people without complaints. A number of these studies are currently under way. We want them to be completed as much as possible before the end of this year and then, hopefully with a positive OMT advice, to be able to use them asymptomaticly in the new year. The infrastructure for this is already, at least in the first track, namely the roll-out via the XL streets. In part of the XL streets they are also being used asymptomaticly at the moment, namely for the people who emerge from the source and contact research and for the people who get a notification from the app. So the first track is what the GGD offers in the test streets. In the second track of increasing test capacity, we want to ensure that, for example, employers themselves, because of the contribution to the overall test capacity, but also because of the rapid testing of their own people, are given as much space as possible to set up test capacity. I have another meeting with VNO-NCW tomorrow. A number of large employers want to take that step. For all employers we hope to open the window at the end of December, so that everyone can start. They get the toolkit from us to get to work with it themselves. Thus, each company can actually set up its own test street to test its employees. Then there's another validation of the breath test. I told you about that last time. It was completed last week. At the moment the OMT looks at the dates, after which the bet can be decided. During the breath test, an important issue is the scaling-up of production. There is a lot of discussion about this. I myself have been in contact with the Japanese company that has to supply the chips in a much larger size than they have been planning to do up to now. Then there is the increase in test capacity. I'm just gonna finish the story. Track one is what we do through the test streets of the GDD. Track two is what we offer employers the opportunity to set up their own test streets. Track three, which I believe most in myself, is the home test through a guided self-collection. At the moment no quick test has been validated for self-collection, but there are a number of validation studies in progress, among others in the group of Kluytmans. If we were able to make the self-tests, the home tests, completely part of the test policy, then we would have really removed the threshold to have you tested. At the moment we ask people to make quite a lot of effort, namely to come to a test street, and then not to like all kinds of things when you are infected. What you should actually do is bet it exactly the other way around, which is to do quite little effort and then to like a lot of things again. That's what all the stakes are for. We want to use these quick tests not only in the regular test streets, but also as access tests. Mr Wiebes is about to discuss this in the context of the field labs. That would be very nice, of course. Anyway, the field labs will start with PCR, but eventually you would like to use antigen tests there as well. I come to Mr Dijkhoff's next question. Do you end up going to some kind of test passport? I believe that you did not use that word, but that is the word that might fit in with that. There are two things going on right now. The first thing we've walked is the more medical-ethical question of how we see it. Is it justified? Is it okay? There are very different views about this. Is it allowed to say at some point: we are fine when you come in, but then you have to be able to show that you have been tested negative? 'The test society' is considered differently. I think it's inevitable that we go there, because otherwise it's too long before you can make events, events, possible again. However, I think you should do that rationally. You need to have the right political debate on that. We asked the Health Council to give an opinion on that question. I thought that was the last question from Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers. That opinion follows in January. I think it would be good to continue the debate. However, in order not to wait for it to be carried out, there is already a mandate for the design of the ICT that could support it. There could be a combination of different functionalities, namely the functionalities to book a test via an app, to do a self-test via video guidance and to show in the same app when you were tested and what the result was. This is a complex IT project, but the preparations for it have already started. If we are to make the decision that it should be possible, then it must also be technically possible. So we want to do that in parallel and not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u366	Mr Dijkhoff is in such a state of interruption. Are you almost done testing the component?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u367	No, because Mr Klaver had also asked a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u368	I know what the Minister's saying. I suppose the medical-ethical dilemma also knows gradations. One idiotic extreme is that you will never say to anyone: you can't vote. It seems to me a less ethical matter if you attend a concert or not to keep each other safe. You can't go there now if you cough. Coughing is never so nice at a concert anyway. The question I asked was the following. I get the above. It's about testing, it's phasing out, and it's all temporary. I don't see it myself, but maybe others see a barrier in how it works after a vaccine. That barrier must be removed in time, or at least dealt with. You can of course say later that you have been tested and that the results were negative. But the idea is, of course, that you'll be there later with a vaccine. I don't know how we're gonna do that when we get a vaccine. Are we going to ask someone who coughs at once to get tested, to make sure the vaccine is working properly? Or do we assume it's something else when you cough after you've been vaccinated? Can you trust that passport in that app, or in any other way, with a vaccine, always says that testing for that person is no longer relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u369	I have just answered that question, but you were not in the Chamber at the time. I think vaccination is a little different from testing. I think it's less problematic when you go to an event, where you're not allowed to go, to show that you've been tested, than you get the question if you've been vaccinated. At the moment we are not very busy developing a vaccination passport, but we are looking at a kind of paper registration of the questions whether you have been vaccinated and what vaccine you have had and what batch of that vaccine. That has everything to do with safety, but also with informing the people who are being vaccinated. We are also trying to make European agreements on this format, but at the moment this does not lead to an initiative for a vaccine passport. However, we have started to come up with that point with an opinion, which was requested last time, I thought in a motion from your hand. That opinion was submitted to the Health Council and I expect that opinion in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u370	If it's already been treated in my absence, I won't ask through. With the low occupancy we currently have, you sometimes have to find a computer to print motions. If it was a while ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u371	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u372	It was no more than this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u373	Then I'd like to see how many questions you still have. Three more members of the government will be present. I know it's a little complicated, but I'm still trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u374	We have D66's question about using rapid tests in education and higher education. I have agreed with Mr Slob that a large number of pilots, some eight, will be launched in secondary education. That goes with the use of self-tests, antigen tests. We are doing this to see how that outbreak could contribute to the reduction of the infections. That's one. Two is what we make available to companies. Of course, we do the same for colleges and for MBOs. If one would like to open one's own test street on an MBO or an HBO, they are warmly invited to do so. At the same time, we must not give the impression that that 1.5 metres can then be released. That wasn't your suggestion, either, but you hear that dream sometimes. That is not possible! But what you can do is to enable MBOs and colleges to do so on location, just like companies. This can, of course, contribute to more intensive testing. So we would like to make that possible. Then GroenLinks' question about the test society. I think I should say first of all to Mr Klaver: thank you for the initiative paper. I would also like to respond in more detail to this than I could have done in the letter last night, even though it was already a small 75 sides. In any case, I would like to respond more thoroughly to the Green Left initiative paper, and I hope to be able to do so before Christmas. The intentions of the plan I will respond briefly, Mr President, I support in any case. What we are going to do, also in connection with the motion tabled by Mr Klaver, is that, in the short term, it will not be possible to start before January in two municipalities. One of these municipalities will be Rotterdam, but the preparations will start in two municipalities. There are a number of ways you could test more intensively. The triple is actually this. The first one is search-oriented. That is to say: focused on tracking so that positive cases can be quarantined, because so you press the R. The second is aimed at access. That is what I have just exchanged with Mr Dijkhoff. The third is actually a more unfocused form for releasing measures. About the latter, the OMT says: watch what you're doing, because there's actually no proof that that could work. There is already some experience of this at present, namely in Slovakia, Liverpool and Luxembourg. There you can see that there is still little evidence that that unfocused testing works for an entire population. In Slovakia the testing of the population was accompanied by a strict lockdown and therefore you cannot say whether that has had the result that we... What we see is that the contamination rates in the Netherlands have fallen more sharply in the same period than there. So I don't think there's any evidence that that kind of testing actually works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u375	But you will return to this in writing with a response?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u376	Sure, sure. In short, I'll come back to that. We share the intentions anyway, but there are a lot of hesitations, especially with regard to that unfocused large-scale testing, whether that is going to help us in that way. Shame, Mr. Chairman. Beautiful answers!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u377	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u378	I'll get back to you all, won't I? I'll come back to all that... Then Van Haga's questions about the PCR test. That is, I would almost say, a good old man in these debates. Mr Van Haga is not enthusiastic about this. I don't think that's shared by virtually everyone in the scientific world. Because he's excited about the PCR test and also says that's the gold standard. It has the highest sensitivity on all sides. I understand that you once again asked Mr Van Dissel this morning and that he also explained to you once again why the PCR test is a very reliable test and that it does not have to be doubted as much as Mr Van Haga does. Mr. Chairman. I will go to the following questions, namely the questions about the vulnerable groups. For example, Mr Segers asked questions about the youth package, as did Mr Heerma and Mr Stoffer. I think it is important to stress that this youth package was made with municipalities. Mr Stoffer has asked whether we are going to work with the municipalities. The plan is made with the municipalities and it is made with young people. That was Mr Segers' question. It is already made with young people and it is currently being developed further. The VNG also collects practical examples. They can already be found on the website of the VNG. This will be further extended in the coming period. The aim is to inspire other municipalities and exchange experiences. I will, of course, inform you about this on a subsequent occasion. Can they get to work before then? That was Mr Heerma's question. The answer is yes. A number of municipalities are already working and they will get to work in the coming weeks, even before the Christmas holidays. Can the scope provided for mayors in the Corona Act to make exceptions to the corona measures be exploited? The Corona Act provides sufficient space for activities within the Youth Package. For young people under 18, all sports, culture and other youth activities are possible, provided well supervised. For young adults from the age of 18 there are the following possibilities: inside with 30 people under supervision, specific outdoor activities accompanied by a youth worker and outdoor activities without assistance with up to four people. In addition, we informed you yesterday that we are also going to ask the OMT for advice to adjust the age limit for training with the sports association upwards. I think Mr Van Ark will explain that in a moment. Can the mp until the end of the covidwinter guarantee shelter for homeless people? I think he can. The municipalities are responsible for taking care of all the people who are entitled to do so in accordance with the Wmo 2015. Winter doesn't change that. There are two times when municipalities take care of homeless people who are not normally entitled to shelter. The first is when temperatures are below freezing. Then the winter cold regime applies and the element 'rightful' does not apply. The second is when the call is made to all people in the Netherlands to stay inside. That is not the case now. That was two weeks in November. If there are no such situations, the regular agreements apply. Then there are the exceptions to the oral cap. I have read a number of messages about this. We are, of course, also in conversation with the interest groups. We have had this debate quite comprehensively when we adopted this regulation. So let's not do that all over again. But I think it is important that we be clear about the possibilities of making use of the exception. It is, of course, the responsibility of the people themselves to show that they are covered by that exception, but that must be done in an easy way, and in a way that a enforcer can do something with it. This means that we have discussed a number of examples of how to do this in a practical way with client organisations and with the enforcement parties. We put it on the government website. That's a postcard, an existing doctor's referral letter. So it doesn't have to be a new medical explanation; that's a misunderstanding. This is an existing referral letter from a doctor, or for example a tool that shows that you cannot put on a mouth cap. Additional evidence can indeed be requested. We've asked enforcement and shopkeepers to do it with respect. My impression is that this is happening too. At the same time, we know that complaints are coming in to client organisations. So we are talking to the client organisations about what this calls for additional actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u379	Did I hear the minister say that a note from the doctor was good, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u380	A regular referral from the doctor is all right. There is therefore no need to ask for a separate medical certificate. That was just a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u381	Finally. Do you want to communicate well? Because there's so much uncertainty about that. I also assume you don't find this valuable: a printout that anyone can print out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u382	We wanted to make it as easy as possible. You showed a pass or something for which you paid €5. That's a shame. You could have just made a print. So you don't need a pass from a commercial firm at all. I get that people see bread in everything, but this really doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u383	But this can print out anyone, including someone who just doesn't feel like it? This doesn't have any value, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u384	On the contrary, we have made it possible for people to demonstrate that they are entitled to the exception. That's how we wanted to do it. That means that we have said: you could show your medication, you could show a standard reference note, you could show another tool, but you can also use one of those cards. That's what's gonna happen. I know that people in disability care, for example, write their supervisor's number on that. That happens; it can be done. So it may be practical and it may be accessible, precisely for the sake of practical implementation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u385	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u386	The boas deal with it in a sober manner. We make it as easy as possible for people. We communicate about this as best we can by informing client organisations properly and by putting it on the website. There's no doubt it's not going to be all right sometime. Well, then we'd like to hear a signal like that and get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u387	The minister's sending the people out on the streets with their private medical records. I mentioned this week's example of the man who did that, who showed his own private medical records, and who was still being sent off the train. That's not clear, is it? You can't handle private medical data like that, when we're all always on privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u388	No, so that's definitely not mandatory either. There are also many other ways to prove that you are right to use the exception. All the ways we have been able to figure out together with the client organisations to make it practical, we have communicated on the website and communicate through client organisations. That's how we do it. An alternative is: no exceptions. Well, we don't think either one of them is an alternative. An alternative could be: a duty for no one. Well, we had that discussion and a large majority of the Chamber was for that duty. An alternative could also be to set up a very bureaucratized system in which medical certificates should be requested. Well, then we have to put all the caregivers who are actually needed on the test street, on the vaccination street and on all the other nice things in the care, behind the computer to sign statements. That's no way to do it, is it? In short, we have been looking for a practical way in which you rely on trust. I think that's the best way to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u389	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u390	Yes. These were the questions about vulnerable groups. Then I have one other question. A question has been asked about quarantine support. I explained quite extensively in the letter what we are doing in practical support. Mr Asscher asked whether a fine had already been imposed. Criminal enforcement of the quarantine obligation is possible on the basis of current legislation, but rather cumbersome. We have given a hand to the presidents of the security regions, but I note with you that they are not being used very eagerly, because they find it very cumbersome. I understand that, too. The second is that the conviction is that we have previously also shared whether you should not first take a lot of steps in supporting people who are going into quarantine. You were very much in favour of that, with many motions for a resolution. I have also been encouraged to do so. That means we're offering a whole range of support. This is made clear in a quarantine guide that people are getting. It's about a quarantine coach that starts in January, and that's about all kinds of support through the Red Cross that we've organised. That's actually what we're focusing on first. Meanwhile, I am working with Mr Grapperhaus on the administrative design of a quarantine obligation as well. But that should be the final point, as far as I am concerned, after we have organised the support in a good way. On the road map, I have been referred to 23 times, but the Prime Minister himself has already given an extremely adequate response. Then there's one more thing I actually have to say for the sake of technology. That's about the change regulation. Because it's been hung. The amendment was submitted to your Chamber yesterday, sometime in the middle of the night, along with the stand-of-business letter. Such presentation has been carried out in the context of the statutory follow-up procedure. The arrangements shall not enter into force until one week after their submission. This means that the arrangement will be hung from your Chamber until Wednesday 16 December. But of course you choose whether or not you wish to have a debate on it. It is a minimally amended scheme, so I would not necessarily encourage you to have a separate debate on it. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u391	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u392	You wanted to quit, but you can't. I had asked two very short questions about prevention, which I did not see in this letter, and about information about the research into air pollution. I think they're both with you, so I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u393	Yeah, that's when it got quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u394	I thought I wrote to you last night... But I'm just... I think I should do that in all precision in second term. I thought I briefed you on that investigation last night. That's what I thought, but it was a pretty big letter, so I might be wrong. I will inform you more precisely in the second term. Do you want me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u395	Is this also about why this letter did not deal with prevention? I had two different questions. One. Last time, I was promised a commitment to now on prevention, on that extra commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u396	Because Mr Blokhuis, I know, would like to send you a separate letter on this. That's his wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u397	That's a very quick answer. That's fine. And I like to hear about air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u398	Okay, thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for your Chamber's questions. There's a few of them. I'll check them out. I shall begin with Mrs Van Esch's questions. At the moment when she has follow-up questions, I may be able to ask it out and answer at the end of my block. I shall begin with the question of principle which she raised here last week or two weeks ago, but which was also raised earlier, about who is responsible for new infectious diseases for people in livestock farming. Let me get that all the way down. I don't have a lot of questions, so I'm afraid to. The legal framework for the control of infectious diseases in order to protect public health, I say just as formally, is laid down in the Public Health Act. That's a VWS law that has been worked out in a structure at the VWS Department to combat human infectious diseases. There is also the possibility of taking measures in relation to infectious animal diseases. This is possible on the basis of the Animal Health and Welfare Act. That is the policy responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture. The Ministry of LNV has a structure for combating infectious animal diseases. Together we follow the zoonotic risk, and we do so intensively. As soon as there is any indication that these circulating viruses have zoonotic properties, the zoonoses structure will enter into force. Then what the Prime Minister said will happen: then the ministry of VWS will be in charge. For we have learned that it is also reflected in this structure that public health is always at the forefront of the fight against zoonoses. If we take that starting point into account, then I also want to say that we naturally want to avoid zoonoses as much as possible and that it comes to 'what is the moment when you jump on top of it as a VWS?', I'm just saying. Frankly, it is a situation that we have to pay close attention to, because you see the developments and you also see the impact of zoonoses on humans, animals and society. We are now seeing it very concretely, but it is also something that we need to keep an eye on. What does that look like in the structure? I just went a little deeper. We have the Human Veterinary Institutes. They do their normal work, meet every month under the direction of the RIVM and then discuss the signals they have received. They also discuss these signals in a monthly consultation with the ministries. It does not end with a monthly consultation. If things are going on in between, more acute things are going on, more frequent consultations are going on and, if necessary, scaled up. That's what happened to the mink, for example. At the moment, the West Nile virus is very specific. There is no scaled-up, but there is a joint consultation on the results of the Response Team zoonoses. As soon as there is a zoonotic risk, we, VWS, are informed about this by RIVM or by LNV. After that, we'll have a meeting and we'll settle. In doing so, the frequency really depends on the risk. Let me zoom in on that West Nile virus, because that is something that also comes back in my weekly consultation. So that's where VWS has the direction, because mosquitoes can make people sick. So the human aspect is leading. I hope that I have been able to tell Mrs Van Esch that we are working together, of course, but that as soon as it goes that way, as soon as the risk arises, VWS will take over in the direction. Then the public health perspective is guiding. Mrs Van Esch has asked questions about antifungals. Wait. I thought she wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u400	She looks very happy. She's even gonna clap for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u401	We clap together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u402	I like that. I'm glad, Mr. Chairman. Then there are the antifungals that Mrs Van Esch talked about. She said that these fungi occur both in agriculture and in some hospitals, and certainly at this time seem to occur in covid patients. I'm going to go into that point. The researchers have found the aspergillus fungus in about 20% to 30% of hospital patients taking COVID-19 who may indeed cause serious infections in ic patients who have influenza pneumonia, but the fungal infection appears to "appear', I stress to say that it is different in ic patients with a COVID-19 infection. It looks like the fungus, with the emphasis on 'appears' again that the fungus is there without causing any damage to it. Of course, that requires research, because that's what you want to know for sure. The best way to deal with this fungal infection in COVID-19 patients is currently being investigated. I say this on the basis of the most recently known picture of the Expertise Centre for Fungal Fungal Infections from June 2020. The professionals have prepared a preliminary treatment advice and it states that COVID-19 patients do not need standard protection against the fungi. However, they look closely at the condition of the patient. If that is the case, then that is what we are going to do. The Animal Party indeed tabled a motion in 2013 on the antifungals in agriculture. Since then, the Minister of Agriculture, together with my predecessors, has kept the Chamber regularly informed about the state of play in the policy on antifungals, the so-called 'azolen' that the 2013 motion also talks about. Research shows that resistance occurs mainly in situations where fungi can actually grow due to, for example, the presence of hot water. Then these antifungals come into view, the use of them. This happens, for example, in flower bulb shells. We have an approach where we deal with hotspots with relevant sectors. Most of the azoles are used in winter wheat and there is no resistance. The Board for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products, which, of course, has responsibility for the authorisation of plant protection products, ensures that that approach is on those hotspots and also lays down additional requirements for use if necessary. We are also actively moving in the European context, because that is where the approval of plant protection products takes place. That is also where we invest this problem. I had that as an answer to Mrs Van Esch's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u403	Of course, it is always good to do more research. If a situation arises in the hospital in this way, we absolutely agree that it should be looked at further. We are concerned, however, and we are not alone in this. We also hear stories that really indicate it. For example, Ed Kuijper, a microbiologist, says that this occurs in people with a virus infection on such a large scale, is really a very worrying situation. I believe that we should apply the precautionary principle here, and this is precisely where VWS' perseverance power could be very important. VWS could say: we are seeing a situation in which we really need to intervene. There's just an approved motion. However, I would like to call on you to take real action from VWS to ensure that this does not get any further out of hand. I think it's worrying already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u404	I know that the appreciation of the motion, which I believe was a former colleague, Mr Dijksma, was asked from the agricultural angle to hold the motion, because it really required increasing scientific research. I must confess that during the course of this debate I do not have the most up-to-date state of affairs, but I do know that the Ctgb also does re-evaluations after ten to fifteen years, on the basis of which the conditions can also be adapted. I would like to say to Mrs Van Esch that I am looking at the current state of affairs. I also know there's a broadcast tonight on one of the NPO stations about this. I will also make sure of the latest state of affairs. I'll include it in the next letter. Also because it has a relationship, I say, with the ic-problem of patients who have covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u405	Thank you very much for this commitment. I would just like to point out that Wageningen University has also recently done research into this, including pesticides. A whole part of what is used in agriculture is in principle no longer allowed and therefore requires an update. I think this is an example of something that needs to be looked at again. I'm glad it's being looked at further. I'll wait for further information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u406	I know that there are issues in the area of health and environment in a broader sense. I am also pleased that we have both aspects with RIVM. But for example, the advice of the Health Council is taken over by LNV, VWS and SZW. In my previous role, I often had it in the portfolio of working conditions, because of course you also have to deal with it. I can't promise to map the very broad spectrum for the next letter, but specifically at this point I'm looking at the current state of affairs, because there is also that relationship with hospitals. Then we may be able to find another moment for those other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u407	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u408	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of other questions, which I will briefly address, because some of them have already been discussed in other debates. Mr Wilders asked about the problem of scaling down regular care. That is a subject that I recognize from him and which was also extensively addressed by Mrs Agema last week in the VWS budget. I think it is important here to point out once again that we are dealing with two groups of people. The first group are the people who did not go to the GP with their complaint. So we don't have a diagnosis of that. They weren't referred to the hospital. We see that people are reluctant to go to the doctor for all kinds of reasons. I would like to stress once again that there is no need for this restraint. Mrs Sazias has also pointed out on several occasions that people really need to contact the general practitioner, so that it is a medical consideration whether people are being referred. Then there is the second group of people Mr Wilders is asking for, who have been seen and referred to by the GP, but whose treatment has been postponed because of the corona crowd. They are people who are well known to their doctor, who are therefore being treated and who are in the planning process. We dealt with this delay differently in the second wave than in the first wave, precisely because we dropped everything for acute care in March. But now we wanted to prevent that health damage. That is the legitimacy of the temporary policy framework for ensuring acute care, where I refer to the letter for the sake of time and because it has been changed several times. What matters is that the access of patients is the same everywhere in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders also asked for figures last time. I have already said that it is very difficult to give concrete figures. But still, if you look at the number of references not made, the NZa says: in the summer we found 800,000. We are now above the million, but in the second wave it is less so than in the first wave. I think that is also the gain of the approach, because the care field has joined forces. What do we see? That the treatments of critical, scheduled medical specialties, oncology, cardiology, gastric, liver, bowel disease, during the second wave lie around the level of previous years. In other, less critical specialties, where a lot of pain and misery can be hidden behind, such as orthopedics or chamber kno-healing, we can see a decrease. In general terms, there should be no health damage caused by the directives in force. This is due in particular to the commitment of all those in the care sector, who have jointly taken care of this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u409	Have all the questions about scaling down the care been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u410	Yes. There is much more to be said, but this has already been discussed extensively in previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u411	Yes. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u412	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. Look, what I want to know is that a lot of people are also curious about when people can get their graduated care back. What you say: for the worst diseases it is fortunately better in the second wave than in the first wave, when the care was completely scaled down. We've talked about it before. But you're still saying that there are a lot of people with diseases, too. I know a lot of them who are still waiting for their treatment in the hospital and who suffer from their backs, knees or anything else. What I want to know from you: when do these people, of course, not all individual cases have a view of getting help, if the figures go on like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u413	At the time of the previous debate, I was able to point out that the situation at that time with an R below 1 would ensure that, in the event of a constant commitment to care, the delay in care would probably have been overtaken by spring 2021. But there are a number of preconditions behind this, such as the R, which is currently unclear, but also the commitment of all those people we expect to continue working. That is not a fact, but that is actually the earliest time we can have made up for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u414	This depends on the R, but that also depends on something we have talked about before, namely the care staff: to what extent can we work more full-time and to what extent can we work with that management layer? Those are all points that Mrs Agema said that is no coincidence, because we are also from the same party last week in the budget. So maybe in a next letter you can go into concretely what you need to achieve that, what the bears can be on the road and how it might possibly be accelerated, just to give people clarity when they can be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u415	Yeah, I'm telling you. By the way, I try to update the themes, which have been mentioned before, in every progress letter. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga asked how many ic nurses are in training now. According to our data, 862 people are currently in training as ic nurse. Mr Segers asked what we can do for the people in the care, and what we can do to help them both before and after Christmas. At least I want to put the spotlights on the Extra Hands for Care project one more time. At the moment we inventory which of the people who have signed up are available to assist very specifically in the weeks 52, 53 and 1. People can indicate whether they want to support, and in what tasks they want to do so. If they themselves are not able to perform activities, they can, for example, cook for the staff, or help distribute coffee. Employers can apply for support from the end of next week. But I'm going to explain this within the broad palette of all the support measures we have, such as educating people through the National Care Class and exciting people in many ways. Taking into account what Mrs Sazias said about how she was shocked by the aggression that sometimes exists in the care, we can all contribute. Let us not get mad at those who fight hard for us, but rather express our appreciation for them. Maybe now it's extra necessary to do that. For no man can without a pat on the back or a piece of recognition. These are the people who are fighting for us day and night. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Marijnissen's question. She said: sport may take a little bit of contamination risk because people are in contact with etcetera, but sport also gives us something. Can't sport be part of the solution? We all have to keep moving, don't we? Let me say that this is a theme that is not only broad in the cabinet, but also very broad in society. I am really glad that Mrs Marijnissen asked this question. That gives me the opportunity to express my appreciation to the sports associations and all the volunteers, whom I know the Chamber has a very warm heart for. This was also apparent from the Sports legislative consultation. I think Mrs Marijnissen is right. I talked about this this morning with the Prime Minister, NOC*NSF and the KNVB, because sport and movement is something that is just super important in the fight against that virus. What can be done at the moment is very limited. Fortunately, it's under 18 years old, but it's really limited up there. So we agreed this morning in the discussions with NOC*NSF and KNVB that we would ask the OMT the following question: can you advise us what would happen if everyone could train? And look at what you're giving and what you're taking around that infection risk. I expect to be able to include that advice in the decision-making process at the next minute. I think it is very important that we should be able to offer a bit of perspective, but above all that we should express appreciation for everything that is happening at the moment. So I would like to thank Mrs Marijnissen for her question. Mr President, that was it for my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u416	Thank you. Let me now give the floor... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u417	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the questions that have been asked about the Fixed Charges Meeting. I wanted to address the questions and concerns surrounding start-ups. There are questions about the field labs and also separate questions about events. And a question has been asked about tax delays. What binds many in this room, I think, is the abdominal pain over all kinds of sectors, but also certainly the catering industry. It's all here and me like a rock on the stomach. Life's works are all at stake. It's some kind of unequal fight against an anonymous virus. You can't blame anyone, but you know you're in a fight that you don't necessarily win. Questions have been asked about this by Mr Asscher, Mr Stoffer, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Sazias. Mr Asscher's question is the most basic one, I think. He said, "Is that enough?" Actually, we didn't think so. We didn't think so, and so we focused the fixed-cost payment on those entrepreneurs who have actually lost all their turnover. There we have increased it by 40%; for companies with less turnover losses it is also less. Moreover, we have said that this is not just the outlook for the first quarter of next year; it has to be done in the current quarter, because there is a lot going on now. Everyone can see that; I don't need to explain that. Due to the 40% increase in the fixed-cost fee for companies that have lost all their turnover, the one-off fee we have given this quarter is called the 'icebox fee' which, in popular terms, is also increased by the same percentage. That's more of a side effect, but it's nice for those entrepreneurs. If you've lost a lot of sales, if you count that fee, you won't even have 70% compensation, but 86%. But that's a one-time effect for this quarter. This also applies to other sectors. We didn't want to end up in that proper discussion either. If you only do something for the catering industry, then the catering wholesaler will say: yes, but ho-ho, what's so different about us? And then they're right. Then you can do something for the catering wholesaler, and then the cleaning company that only cleans at the catering wholesaler says: yes, but wait a minute, what about us? I can't. So we wanted to focus on all companies that have a large turnover loss. We have also done so widely and not tied to a sector. Why is that? Has that perspective changed completely? Well, a little. The package is still springing. It's not that. But when we came back after the summer and put the package together, we didn't really see that perspective and we had to say: a lot of companies have to adapt. It's not hard enough for anyone, but now we've got a light somewhere far away in that tunnel. That helps. Then you want to put extra weight on it to get those companies through it. That's why we raised it. Have we done enough of that? I think so. I find it orderly. I'd like to explain. It sometimes sounds like it's about 'government money' in the discussion. But the money isn't mine and the money isn't Hoekstra's; it's the taxpayer's. It's yours. And we have to pay it back eventually. So there's always a trade-off. A government can't pay for everything either. It will not be enough for all entrepreneurs in specific situations, but they are high amounts. An average café has a turnover of €120,000 in a quarter. For the fixed charges alone, such a café receives €25,000. We used to think of $18,000. A fairly large, not absurdly large restaurant will receive more than a tonne of fixed-cost compensation in a quarter. They are high amounts, but of course 70% is not 100%. Then you can also ask the question how we deal with that 30%. You can ask. This 30% concerns the uncovered fixed charges, but that is 30% of the fixed charges as they used to be, when the company was running, when every day was cleaned, when the rent had to be paid in full, when the cleaning had to go through every day. The first is, of course, that entrepreneurs who are going to bring down fixed charges are also doing so because those burdens are not that fixed if there is no turnover. You're gonna clean less, you're not gonna turn on the lights, and then you're not gonna light it. But the second thing they do is they do so because the Secretary of State of EZK called on them six months ago and also called on the behind parties in the chain to do so. They are going to try as much as possible to appeal to the other parties in the chain as well. That is right, because if the catering industry no longer makes sales, isn't it strange that the manager of the café should be involved but that the real estate owner who rents that building, which is really just a café and which now has no economic value, will continue to charge his rent, every month, unchanged? That doesn't make any sense. We shouldn't let that happen in this country, in this crazy situation. A lot of parties have followed up on this. The Secretary of State and I have had the breweries at the table, who have made arrangements with all their cafes, and we have addressed property owners. I'm the first to say that not every real estate owner has. I'll make that call again, but a lot of it happened. That's how it's supposed to be. There has to be that incentive, because we also want that conversation. We want the chain to participate and that not everything is in the garden of that catering operator. We see this a lot. In cities there are even arrangements for rentals: if the turnover is disappointing, you also pay less rent. I think we should do that in Dutch. The government can't do everything. With 70% of the fixed charges as they used to be, the government does a lot. Just not everything; that last piece does parties themselves. They do that all the time. Mr Stoffer specifically asked about one branch. I now associate him with this sector, the coach industry, because he has asked for it before. We do not know the fixed costs for every company, because we cannot determine them for every company. Then the execution here becomes a completely impossible matter. So we derive that from the CBS. We know about this sector, with the SBI code 'Land transport', the fixed-cost rate according to this definition. That's what we're basing it on. Of course, for every coach company... No, in fact, for every company it is different from what the CBS indicates. Sometimes it's higher, sometimes it's lower, but the only way to get entrepreneurs to get their money quickly is this way. If we're gonna make exceptions to that, this whole ship's gonna be on the ground. Then this is gonna go all wrong. It is a question of correcting, standardizing and massing, with tens of thousands at the same time, by computer, because only then will entrepreneurs have their money in time. That's what we do with premeditation. That too is a risky system; we know all about it. It's no different. It's gotta be like this. In doing so, coach operators will receive their allowance for fixed charges in exactly the same way as all other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u418	Mr Wilders and then Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u419	Let's get back to the catering business. It's gonna go wrong in the hospitality business because you're fucking trying to make up for that sector you caught yourself. The catering industry is the only sector you have closed down throughout the shopping street. How many times have I said that today and before? What is the reasoning? That there would be fewer movements. Yeah, if that's what you want, you're gonna have to shut down the whole retail business. Then you can say: go to Amazon and go to bol.com. You didn't. Stop making excuses that it is about the movements and the spread of the virus, because then you should have closed the whole retail business. You didn't. You took out one sector, and that's the hospitality business. All shops are open and the catering is closed. After months of misery, the catering industry says, "You guys, if we can't open up, we won't make it." Then we're gonna need 100% on that TVL. Then we'll need at least 90% of that NOW scheme. They don't say that because they like to hold their hands, Mr. Secretary. Those are entrepreneurs who are eager to make their own money, but cannot do so because they are the only ones who cannot open up, unlike the rest of the retail sector. They want to earn their own money and if they can't, at least they don't want to go bankrupt. Some men threaten to kill themselves. Others have already eaten billions of savings together. Please...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u420	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u421	Madam President, there are a lot of families at home from the catering industry right now. They now hear the Minister say casually why it can't be done. But it has to be done. The hospitality industry just deserves to be compensated for the whole burden. Otherwise they'll go to hell, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u422	There is one thing we agree on: there is no better support than sales. That's what the caterers want. I note that there is no such turnover at the moment, at least to a very limited extent. A 70% reimbursement of the fixed charges on the basis of the fixed charges that were incurred when the company was in operation, I find orderly. This means that there is a limited part to be taken into account. The catering company should not be alone for that. The chain partners must also participate in this. There's no need to fire. There's got to be a way to talk about the rent. There's no need to clean up. The costs can also be reduced. That's how entrepreneurs do it. They clearly let me know that they didn't think the 50% was enough. We've looked into it and I acknowledge it. At this time, with that light at the end of the tunnel, it has to be more, because we want to get them through as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u423	Finally. The hospitality people aren't gonna make it. You can say, "I've looked at it and we've gone from 50% to 70%," but they're not gonna make it. They have already put together 3.5 billion euros of reserves, of their own assets, of savings in their own business. They're not hands-on, they're not people who like to depend on the government. People put their own savings in it. They're out of reserves. Whole families have nothing left. They can go straight to welfare once they've sold their business. And then you say: it's okay; it should be possible with the rest of the chain. But they're not gonna make it. Think of those families who had to shut down their business out of their debt. It's the only one. All shops are open. Not her. Please, for as long as it's still going on, hopefully with those vaccines, it won't take you so long to iron over your heart and say: the time that it's still going on, I'll give you 100%. Then not only those companies, but also those families.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u424	For this quarter we have raised the 50% to 70%, but due to the fridge fee this quarter is slightly above 85%. The next quarter is 70%. We've raised it, even for the current quarter. I find that orderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u425	I hear Mr Wilders saying something, but the Minister should not of course be distracted from my question. I'm very satisfied with a lot of things the cabinet does. Really. What Mr Wiebes has just said is correct at 99.9%. But at least for that coach business, which I'm identified with. That might take a while. I am not the only one: Mrs Postma of the CDA and Mr Remco Dijkstra of the VVD have also made comments on this. So I'm not alone in it. The coach industry is now treated in the same way as the taxi industry. The simple difference is, of course, that such a taxi is much cheaper to buy than such a very expensive coach. The fixed charges for a taxi should therefore be assessed slightly differently from those for a coach. I only have about 0.1 fte for it myself. And then there's another employee with 0.2 fte, 0.3 fte. We figured it out: it's between 41% and 42% TVL. The only question is: can that be put into the system? That's fine. It works for other industries, too. We have previously asked a lot of attention for the camping shops. My question is specific to this sector. It's been figured out. The interbranch organisation shall indicate it on behalf of all companies. The only question is: adapt it. Then those coaches just drive after the summer and then we didn't screw up the whole industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u426	I can't make exceptions to all of them. We just can't do that. Then we're gonna have to adjust for parts of SBI codes. I just don't see it happening. I just managed to run it. We're just catching up. The amount of work that RVO, the executive organisation, takes on, is hardly possible anymore. We should not create distortions in this very big operation, because then entrepreneurs will no longer get their money. I have to be careful. I have an execution organization to protect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u427	I understand that, but the bottom line is that these coach companies are already out of business, and there are a number of bankrupt cars that are all going to go on the bottle, except those with the oldest dirty buses. Maybe they're just hanging in there. The rest of you are going out of business. I understand that it's difficult, but for all I care I come to work at the RVO for a week on Christmas holidays to help you fix it up. So I'm gonna ask you one more question. Please, let's not drop this business. They have a future perspective, but they're just gonna break down. I don't want to. So I'm gonna keep moaning until it's adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u428	That's not necessarily accelerating. Look, if Mr. Stoffer has a great ICT experience, I'd like to put in a good word for him and he can work there. But seriously, we have made commitments in many areas in the past that have not proved feasible. We've sometimes created a great mess with that. That's not allowed here, because lives of corporations depend on this... What am I saying? It's after nine and Eric Wiebes can't come out of his words. The lives of companies depend on this. This operation must not derail and I must protect it. I've got a holy awe for the people who have to do this. I put pressure on it every now and then, too. If one eventually experiences that it can, we will do so. But if the answer remains no, I have to accept it, because otherwise I'm gonna make a hell of a mess. I'm responsible for that, and then many entrepreneurs go head-to-head. If this operation goes wrong, the damage is enormous. I would like to understand that from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u429	I understand that, but that's one side of it. The other side is that those coach companies are just going to be bankrupt. Some of them are really bankrupt. I can provide the examples... and the rest will go bankrupt in the near future. One more question: will there be no space at all between now and the summer or will there be some air somewhere near the RVO so that a few things can be dealt with specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u430	For coach companies which have a large turnover loss, there is, of course, an increasing increase. It's not just about catering. Touring car companies also benefit from the increase. If they have 30% turnover loss, they don't benefit from it because they're on the same path as before. But if they have a larger turnover loss, they also benefit from that increase. If there are coach companies with zero turnover, they go up 40% in the fixed-cost fee and then, of course, the NOW is added.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u431	I don't think we're getting any closer now. I'll get back to you. Not here in the debate, because then we won't be finished tonight. I have the telephone number of Mr Wiebes and Mrs Keijzer. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u432	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u433	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u434	Mr. Chairman. I come to another group that can also make you extremely sad: the starters. A restaurant started half an hour before the catering business closed. There you are, with the paint still under your nails setting the tables and you hear it's over. That is extremely difficult. The way to help those people, in essence, is not lending. It's about support. It is companies that have had a certain perspective and you would like to support it. Because they're companies we don't know about, this can only be done with handicrafts. That's 35,000 companies with staff; if I count them without staff, it's going to be a dramatic number. One-tenth of them are not yet processed manually. So this tailor-made support is not conceivable. The only possibility I would see is some kind of credit. I must be honest that I myself am not convinced that the current credit opportunities are attractive to many start-ups. We have the small credit scheme, we have Qredits, we have the BMKB and we have the COL, but not everything is tailored to that group. In all honesty, I think that we should look again closely at what is possible in the credit field. In each of these schemes there are disadvantages for this group. We've trashed the craziest things in the department: whole search for support. That's a dead end. But in the credit field, we'll have to come up with something somehow. I cannot give a ruling on what that is, but the suffering there is such that I would very much like to do so. The implementation problem is huge. Whoever is interested in this, I offer a technical briefing at the RVO. But in the credit field... I tend not to give up. The Secretary of State for EZK also tends not to give up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u435	Were all the questions answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u436	It's about starters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u437	Then I will go to Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u438	The question is essentially unanswered, and that is precisely my discontent and also Mr Dijkhoff's. In that we are united again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u439	We sometimes hear in the Chamber on this dossier: do not promise too much and say honestly when something cannot be done. Thank you for this honesty, but it is painful. I understand now, after so many questions, that it is not technically possible. I don't think there's anyone who can do it and sneaking around pretending. But it's hard for people to understand. You once applied for a license, it's all registered, you have a liquor and catering license, you were open. You had three people on the job, you had a case. A similar case so many doors down has a turnover. Can't we just take it? Whether they were open in September or August, they turned some revenue. Can't we take that as a reference? All these roads are dead. The computer says no. Only it's not for those people to explain. The suspicion was that the means now contained in the letter are not going to help this group. They will continue the search for another form of credit. Should anyone follow this and have a brilliant solution, I hope that we will remain open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u440	Yes, that was your call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u441	I would just like to say that Mr Dijkhoff's concerns have not only been addressed to me, but also to the Secretary of State. The feelings about that are the same with all three of us. She's also committed to continuing that search. I support her. We're gonna take a closer look. That's going to be in the credit field. That's not ideal either. It's not a panacea, it doesn't solve all the problems. Where there isn't better, you have to do it in that kind of way. That too will be quite a search. I do not want to burden Mr Dijkhoff with my problems and with those of the Secretary of State. We have state aid and you name it. We are a beautiful country, but a lot has been arranged. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to go to something else. That is not so much aid, but that is the way to turnover. We have to do this by continuing to fanatically look for how it could be done, what could be done and under what circumstances it could be done. That's why we set up those field labs. Mr Dijkhoff has asked questions about it. Mr Jetten has brought it up. Mr Heerma has brought it up and, in my view, other spokesmen. A field lab is basically a major experiment on how something could be, a controlled experiment. There are two types: you can do the experiment within the rules. You can say: within a certain institution we are going to do this in compliance with all covid rules. You have to see if people stick to it, how to decorate it, what works and what doesn't, how to do nudging, how to make people feel rewarded when they do it right. That's within the rules. Of course, it becomes more dangerous when we say: shall we experiment if we can release rules in a particular environment? That's a lot more dangerous. First of all, there are legal restrictions in the way. Both species need to be done at a certain time and, in fact, both as soon as possible. Let me finish them. The first question is, would you do that for restaurants? In all honesty, and with that, I commend the sector of restaurants very well know how to do it. It now has a depressing effect on the virus due to all the accompanying transport movements and due to small mistakes that people sometimes make, as shown by the models of the RIVM and the advice of the OMT. But in the long run, these restaurants know how to do it. There may still be a need for supervision or better arrangements, but a lot has been worked out. There has been extensive reflection with the sector on the balance between risks of contamination and management. This was also submitted for advice to the OMT. It's very predictable. So there's no need for experiments there. It's different in the wet catering industry. It's a lot more complicated than that. This also requires no explanation here, but above all compliance is much more complicated. You really want to know under what circumstances people are willing to stick to that. Also there you want to think about how to run quick tests. Some time ago, statistics showed that one of the main infected groups in the catering industry was the staff. If you switch things with that kind of thing quickly, run quick tests, do things with decor, nudging, the right signals and types of reward, you'll learn something from it. We won't make it in January. That needs to be prepared with this sector. Before Christmas, I hope to speak to that sector. This is what I do with the Secretary of State. This is something we need to get going. This is useful and we learn from it, because we know that at some point we would like to open up the wet catering industry. I'd love to. A third group I would like to mention, and I say again that I am talking with the greatest respect here about the Secretary of State's portfolio are the events. Events are complicated, too. Think about a dance event or whatever. We can all see that this is complicated. We are going to look, well-controlled, with all the scientists at the table and with the RIVM on top, whether we can do so without respecting all the rules. So not all the rules we have will have to be respected in such an event. This means that you have to guarantee safety in a different way. This has been done very intensively with the various sectors and with a lot of stakeholders. There's a very big plan. RIVM's been watching that. There are all kinds of scientists, top scientists, involved. This must also ensure that we slowly build up prospects for this sector. It's about all kinds of things. Let me just mention something domestic. For example, if you set up a theater, you have to keep the queue clear. In what way could you work that you don't have to keep the line clear? In that case, the capacity utilisation of such a theatre becomes much larger and it becomes more profitable to play theatre plays. Then there are some more pieces and then it starts again slowly. Experimenting with cough screens, face shields, ventilation, track and trace and triage. Tests could also play a role in this. We start with two types of experiments, with a total of four tests. The first type of experiment is "large location and sitting," a theatre or a business congress, the second type of experiment is sport, for example a football game with visitors. There are several practical tests. In Utrecht the Beatrix Theatre. That could be a test with 500 visitors. A soccer game in Almere. A football match in Nijmegen, with possibly 1,500 visitors. Also the Ziggo Dome, with over 1,000 visitors, could be covered by one of these experiments. Participants should sit down and be tested in advance. That must be a good kind of test, of course. And the sector has even more ambitions after that. He wants to work with Lowlands. The Ziggo Dome wants a dance event going on. Then it's not about sitting anymore. It's about standing. This is how we slowly experiment in the new economy. We want to make that possible, but we do want it to be justified. So it's decorated with scientists, the RIVM on top of it. Quick tests can play a role in this. Can I just say something about what gave me a little spark of enthusiasm about the deployment of those quick tests? When you run quick tests, you have the first advantage that people are screened for such an event and so light each other less. That helps for the Ziggo Dome and the dance event. But there's another effect. At the moment the enthusiasm for testing is smaller than the capacity for testing. Why is that? Possibly because you have to take the car, that you have to make an effort and that you may not like something after that. In other words, you have to struggle for a test, with the risk that you don't like something anymore. That's not very attractive. If you run a test as an access criterion for such an event, you don't have to make much effort. Because you're just standing at the entrance, with the chance that you like something. This means that you create a sieve that allows you to pass risk groups through a test and that they are rewarded with the event. The knife cuts both ways. We could use that. That might help. That's why we really want to go there, even with tests. This also needs to be legally prepared, because we have legislation that says that some things can no longer be done. You have to make that possible in a certain way. Lawyers from three departments are working on this. So that should work out. The aim is to organise some of these things as early as January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u442	You guys are really too close to each other. I often get e-mails from people because everything is in the picture. So let me warn you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u443	Then there was a question from Mr Dijkhoff about events. How would we feel about the system proposed by the German government, where there is some kind of pandemic guarantee by the government for events? I've been watching that. It has also been said in several letters of Parliament that we would look into this. It has not yet given rise to the greatest enthusiasm. The point of view of the sector is clear: how can we organise something if we then run the risk that all costs were for nothing? I get that. But it is also something to say: let's organize a lot of public money, and if the virus doesn't allow it yet, we will bear the costs. I'm struggling with this. In the situation we are now in, it seems unlikely that events will be provoked, with a high chance that it will all have to be brought up by the taxpayer at the end of the day. Thinking about this is not yet ready, but the enthusiasm is not yet there to that extent. My idea would really be to start with the field labs first and see what can be done. Once we know better what can and what the risks are, you can better weigh up the necessity, but also the burden on society of such a fund. Mr. Chairman. Tax delays are also a subject. But I think Mr Jetten wants to know more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u444	Thank you for the detailed explanation of the field labs. Seeing what can be and what the risks are is the purpose of the testing grounds. The Minister also talks about it enthusiastically. You'll notice that when you talk to people from different sectors, because they've been preparing those experiments for months. Part of the frustration in the catering and culture sectors is that these plans have been there since October. Why didn't we start that much earlier? We would then have been able to establish on the basis of facts whether the risk is still there at all or whether these measures are sufficient. What took you so long? Why aren't those field labs here already? Why not start in January and not next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u445	Because among the people who advised us, forever there have been hesitations or these events within themselves, if they did not succeed, could not become spreading events. I now think that these plans are solid, but also that the need for perspective and more knowing what can be so great, that we have decided to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u446	I think it would be wise to start small and to scale up further if you are sure that these small-scale experiments, without major risks, are going well. I'm glad to hear that at least in January some field labs start with more visitors, including at NEC in Nijmegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u447	That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u448	Yeah, that's the goal. My question is: how quickly does the Minister think that this can be scaled up? You start with some field labs. In how many weeks do you know that there are no major contamination sites there? How quickly is the cabinet prepared to say, after having experimented in ten places, that it will be twenty, it will be a hundred? What perspective is there to offer to entrepreneurs in these sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u449	In all honesty, that depends on how these experiments go. They are intended for the answer to the question of how quickly they can be scaled up. That question can only be answered by the results of the experiments. I appreciate Mr Jetten's enthusiasm, but I put four small spots in the windowsill and Mr Jetten asks when they are four trees. I can't say yet. Let's see how it goes, because that's what this is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u450	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u451	But Mr Jetten's enthusiasm is also contagious. Not a bad word about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u452	I have quite a lot of questions about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u453	I notice that your sound is dropping. You have to press the pedal very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u454	Yeah, the middle pedal's a little less good. Then I'll come to the restaurants. The Minister was just talking about that. I also think that restaurants with reservations, fixed seats, ventilation and so on have already thought of everything to be able to open up in a responsible way. Still, restaurants aren't in the field labs right now. Would it not be wise to experiment with the directive they have created in a number of locations? Both the visitors of such a restaurant and the staff can be followed with tests prior to such an evening and afterwards, to see if the directive the restaurants themselves have devised is actually enough to organise a safe dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u455	Actually, I have faith in that. I don't think we should use a sector to test subjects that we already know. I keep saying that my aim would be: the best support is turnover. Then we would open the restaurants as soon as that point of ten shots per day is reached on the ic. I don't think we should test it again if we already know. Then you just keep people busy. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u456	Okay, let's finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u457	Yeah, well, finally, at the restaurants. Here, of course, is the shoe for those restaurants. If we already know it's safe, why aren't they open again now? Then a restaurant gets 'punished', while you can shop with the crowd on Black Friday and every day at the IKEA. So that's where the shoe is a little bit wringing. Restaurant owners also say at the same time: it is fine if we have to stay closed for a little longer, if we have to extend that sacrifice, but then we would like to know on what date that ends or then we want the aid package to be sufficient to compensate for the closure by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u458	We're both trying to do it. We try to make it clear that a certain level of contamination and ic-recording per day creates a perspective for the catering industry. At the same time, until then, we want to expand the package, especially for those sectors which are largely or completely closed. It's 40% extra TVL. For a large restaurant this quarter is more than a ton. Those are huge amounts of money. A lot is being done to support it, but I keep saying: opening up is the best thing for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u459	You have one final question, I think, about tax delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u460	There's tax delays until April 1st. Mr Stoffer asked: can we not do it any longer? I'll take it one step at a time. The predictive value of many is limited in this corona time. We'll do it for this quarter. Yes, we have given certainty for those nine months, but we had to come back to that a few times in the meantime. The decision was about Q1 and that delay was granted. We'll keep an eye on it. There is also a downside to always new lending, because all these loans are building up. That could go wrong at some point. It is therefore always a complex consideration. It is also a question of taxpayers' money. Mr President, I was there with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u461	Yeah, that's right. A brief question, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u462	I think this was indeed the only question for Minister Hoekstra. I thought he ran away because of such a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u463	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u464	That's what I thought. That's good. I'm gonna ask you anyway. If we really look at it, it will of course just take longer than until 1 April. Sometime in the next quarter, that delay will come after that. I think if you do it all at once, you'll just give your entrepreneurs some perspective. Now they're thinking, "Oh, it's getting really close." They'll just have more space. I think it's also a real option. We've got to get the money back. If entrepreneurs can't pay back, the money won't come back at all, but a little more stretch gives them much more peace and space. They'll be able to move forward for a while. They're already having a hard time. In the end, we are a little longer as a government credit bank, but I think that's going to happen anyway. So my question is: if the Minister really looks at it, then it makes sense to just do it until the summer? Maybe you'll have to extend it one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u465	If, for a certain period of time, you have given a considerable postponement of tax payments, that is in fact an additional provision of credit to those companies. It has been a phenomenal lending of some tens of billions. If you keep doing that, you're gonna build up a debt that you're never gonna intuit. That's not wise either. So there is a balance in it. It is not obvious that it is right to continue with the granting of postponement. That's not necessarily wise. So I'm fighting that a little bit. But at least Mr Stoffer's call has landed. Until 1 April there is that delay and that was not the plan at first. So we extended that for the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u466	That may sound reasonable in normal circumstances, but these are not normal circumstances. That is why I am thinking: simply choose a deadline that is realistic and that is also related to all the measures that are already under way. They also run until 1 July. Just do it until 1 July, because then everything will run the same and you won't have to rethink the whole package until sometime in May or June. That gives the cabinet a rest and that is good, because I just understood that civil servants are very busy. They do not have to think about it anymore and it also gives the entrepreneurs peace and quiet. And me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u467	I see, of course, more things that always give businessmen peace and quiet. I see in this case that we do not fully agree on the period, at least for the time being, but I do dispute that what we are doing here would not be realistic. I think Mr Stoffer sees that we may have a different period in mind, but he does not think the policy, I think, is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u468	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the office is cleaned and then I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u469	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been asked a limited number of questions. Let me start with the questions about the TONK, the Temporary Support Necessary Costs. A number of times your Chamber has called attention to the group that falls at the TONK between shore and ship. These are people who are not entitled to a Participation Act or Tozo benefit, for example because the partner has income. As a result, someone sometimes has no income anymore and the municipalities saw the same problem. In recent weeks, the Secretary of State and I have had discussions with them and today we have made EUR 130 million available for the first six months. The purpose of this money is to compensate for, for example, the fixed charges, the rent or the mortgage if someone is not eligible for a benefit. It's customization. Why? Each situation is different and you can really see here that people in very specific situations report to the municipal desks. We also want the municipalities to be able to make that customization possible and offer it. There are a few parameters to it, for example the power key contained in the Bbz. That is, above €50,000, regardless of the pension scheme and separately from your own home. But the customization that municipalities can offer is precisely intended to provide targeted support to those people who are not entitled to anything at the moment. Mr Heerma asked who exactly was involved in the quarantine scheme. We see that, for example, flex workers and people with a zero-hour contract often work as zzp'ers in sectors such as catering, arts and events, and they are particularly affected by this. With this arrangement you could support them, even if, for example, you have to quarantine and can therefore not take orders as a zzp'er or as a call force. That's what it's for. We are now going to do further work with the municipalities and we want to have it running from 1 February, so that we can actually provide that support. We are really doing this on the basis of conversations with the municipalities, because they see in practice that people report to the social services desk and that they have to say: we can do nothing for you. That is why they say: give us a little perspective of action. That's where it's based. Mr Azarkan had a question about TOFA, the predecessor of this flex contract scheme. This is actually the successor to it. Mrs Sazias asked: can the municipalities implement this? Yeah, at least it's something that can be done. But we are still in agreement with them to get this up and running before 1 February. We also want to make a hand-out to give municipalities a kind of guidance on how to do this in practice. We cannot make a precise assessment of the number of people who can be helped by this, because we also do not know exactly who it is. These people are not in the benefits or in the statistics, so they are really at risk of falling apart. Therefore, this generic scheme. We have also agreed that Mr Jetten asked for this to be monitored and that after one quarter we should keep our finger on the pulse so that we can see with the municipalities whether it is sufficient, who is claiming it and whether we can really solve problems with it. That's about the TONK. Another new abbreviation! Mr Asscher asked about the corona courts. He gave a number of examples in his term which I very much agree with. By the way, Mr Heerma also asked about corona courts. Examples are enforcement in municipalities and health care jobs: testing streets and vaccination. But these jobs are also available in education, for example class assistants. Next week, I'll come up with a letter on this. So I'm gonna ask for a little more patience. We are doing exactly this and we are also doing exactly what Mr Asscher mentioned. Because they are quick to implement, they can simply be implemented by the government through the normal budgets and can be quickly up and running and provide rapid relief to these sectors. Mr Asscher also asked about the work guarantee and his motion a while ago on the work-to-work paths. Last Monday, together with the trade unions, the employers, the UWV and the municipalities, we signed a declaration of intent for the 35 labour market regions from work to work. We have now started, among other things, in the home of Mr Asscher, Amsterdam. Her Majesty the Queen went to work on Friday with Mrs Hammer of the SER to launch it festively. In three regions we have now started: Groot-Amsterdam, Midden-Brabant and Midden-Utrecht. In fact, we are now going to extend it step by step to all regions. We are working very hard with the social partners to also roll out the sectoral plans. They must start running from 1 January, with co-financing from the R&D funds. We are working hard on this, full of energy and with all the parties who really put their shoulders under it and deserve a compliment that they can lift it off the ground so quickly. Mrs Sazias asked about the recovery of the NOW 1. I sent a letter about that last week. Indeed, 60% of applicants will have to pay back; 40% will receive additional money. We believe that the main cause is that the turnover that companies were able to achieve in the period April, May and June of this year has subsequently been higher than they were able to estimate in advance. They did better than they actually expected in March and April. I can understand that very well, because entrepreneurs did not know what they were up to and therefore filled in a high turnover loss rate in the application. Now they have to pay back a little. In order to prevent these entrepreneurs from getting into trouble, we have told them to take their time to pay back. So we're not dealing with the advances, not even those of the NOW 3. We don't. Entrepreneurs will have a year to apply for it easily but also the opportunity to extend it to five years. That's what we agreed with UWV. In order to prevent companies from being chased over the blade here, they will have time to pay it off. This is also in line with the tax facilities offered by Secretary of State Vijlbrief for the tax debt. So that's also a quiet payback. Mr Segers had a question about the SW companies. Mr Bruins, too, consistently asks for this. We have now made funds available twice: 90 million in the first package and 50 million in the second. We'll keep monitoring it. At the beginning of 2021 we have another conversation with the sw companies about how they stand. So I repeat that here again. Then there is Mrs Sazias' final question about working at home. Together with social partners, the trade unions, VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands, we launched a homework offensive last month. Mr Wiebes and I have meetings every two weeks with the social partners. Then we also have this on the agenda. Together we will also continue to find what more we can do to make it work better and to share good experiences. We now see in the figures that more than 70% of the people who can work at home actually work at home. That's good, but it can be better. But we also need to think about the psychosocial burden on employees. A lot of employers indicate that people are at home but want to keep a connection with colleagues. For example, we are working through Smartwerkgeven.nl and Hoewerktnederland.nl to bring information about homework, good examples and tips on how to deal with staff who sit at home and need contact, more to the attention. Also runs with VNO-NCW the campaign Homework is top sport, just to make the same point. So we're working hard on it and we're going through with this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u470	Thank you. Then we are ready... I see Mr Asscher standing. He has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u471	Do you have a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u472	A very short question. It may even have been answered, but I haven't noticed. It concerns the recovery of NOW aid to companies for which it is not intended. Payrolling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u473	Payrolling. I had a debate on this with Mr Gijs van Dijk this week. I understand the feelings here. The complicated thing is that when we launched the NOW scheme, we said that it was a smart but a little stupid scheme. We look purely at the turnover loss compared to 2019. That is the basis for compensation for wage costs. It is very difficult to take structural changes into account, such as for example in the case of payroll employers, due to the introduction of the Labour Market Act in balance. I do not think it would be desirable if this were the case, so I would like to discuss, for example, with an interbranch organisation. However, the legislation does give the scheme the right to this support. So I can't raise expectations that this can be reversed, because I probably can't live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u474	I understand that you are at risk of failing, but I see in that arrangement, however stupid it may have been in some respects, a title, which is intended to keep people in service. This is obviously something else in my eyes. The least you could ask, even from the sense of justice of people who now get nothing through the partner test and see that 80 million goes to these guys, is that you try.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u475	Yes. I also intend to have that conversation. For the record, I'm not going to talk about individual employers. I can't do that here. This is actually about another phenomenon, namely that organisations have a very different workforce between 2019 and 2020 due to restructuring or other activities. That is actually the essence of the matter. I think it's an interesting question to explore and discuss. But if companies are entitled to the scheme because of the loss of turnover, they are entitled to it. This is how we have legally established the regulation, even here in Parliament. But I understand Mr Asscher's question very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u476	I have an addition to this. Mr Asscher asks, in my view, on a point that many think is right: is there not something to look for? The Minister states: I do not think it can be legally, but I do want to look. In many cases, through legislation we have adopted here, this restructuring took place before 1 January, before corona was even there. I know that it is very complicated; in general consultation this week, the Minister explained this. But precisely because this restructuring has taken place and it is demonstrable: is there not something in the scheme that still allows you to look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u477	I was gonna look into that. Because of all the circumstances, that has not been possible, but the question was also in my forehead, so to speak. I want to look at it. What I have seen so far does not make me hopeful. That is why I am a little cautious about raising expectations, but I would like to look at them and also inform your Chamber about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u478	At what time could that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u479	We have to do that in the short term. It should be possible at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u480	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u481	Mr. Chairman. Hearing the first term I have been chewing a bit on the discussion about the GGD, which is already quite blown up. My concern is not the criticism of the GGD, but they already have to do much more work with many more people than ever before. There's vaccinating now. That must not go away from each other, but you must also train additional people. We also saw that due to the type of packaging, the GGD had to start vaccination faster than expected, while at first we thought that it could probably be done with smaller doses first through the healthcare settings. Last week my colleague Veldman asked for scenarios in the budget. The minister said, "Yeah, we're gonna go crazy." I think we're going crazy too if we don't know exactly what's going on, if we're not prepared for unexpected events and it keeps improvising all the time. It is also okay if more tasks are shared. We don't necessarily expect the G.D.D. to always be able to do anything. We just expect that one way or another it will be carried out that both can be tested and vaccinated. Those who do so are, in my opinion, following and not necessarily leading. But that is more of a reflection I have in connection with the debate. I don't have the feeling that the Chamber thinks that the GGD should be able to do everything or be there for everything and everyone. We would understand if they had limits, if they had to be joined from other sectors, if others were to do more tests and if the GGD were to vaccinate more or the other way around. I do not have a motion on that, by the way, because that would mean that I would allow myself to think that I have a solution and that is a bridge further. I do have a motion on starters, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that entrepreneurs who started just before or just after 15 March 2020 cannot use the NOW and the TVL;]] [[Whereas another form of assistance is needed;]] [[calls on the government to provide virtually interest-free loans with generous repayment periods to this group of start-ups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-772]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u482	Mr President, thank you very much. I have a number of motions. Thanks to the Minister for Health for wanting to involve those 70+ in some way. To support that, as a support in the back, I'll just say, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to add self-employed 70-plusers with comorbidity to the group of people who are the first to be vaccinated, as they are at greater risk of a more serious development of COVID-19 and therefore to make greater use of hospitals, where a rapid reduction in the number of covid patients is highly desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-773]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u483	I understand the Minister's explanation in the light of this motion. Then the next motion, because that really is a disgrace: the catering industry. I'm sticking with it. I've tried it so many times. It's incredible that the catering industry is being treated like this. I just want that restaurant open or they get pennies. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that since the closure of the catering industry, the percentage of contamination at home has more than doubled;]] [[noting that corona measures are maintained in the hospitality sector so that the catering industry can contribute to reducing the number of infections;]] [[calls on the Government to reopen the catering industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-774]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u484	In the unexpected event that this motion would not make it or would not be carried out the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to compensate the catering industry for 100% of the costs through the NOW and TVL, as long as they are not allowed to open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35295-775]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u485	Mr. Chairman. I find it incomprehensible that, after six months, we still do not know what action is leading to what. It's like the Cabinet just doesn't know what they're doing and saddles people with. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to examine which of the numerous corona measures are and are not convincing, so that the choices made can be supported,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-776]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u486	Finally, one more motion. I haven't been able to discuss it in my term, but there's been a piece on boyfriend politics in the OMT. Mr Kluytmans is a consultant, but would also be involved in a manufacturer of corona tests. I would like the Minister to respond to this, but for the sake of certainty the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to inform that OMT members and directors have no interest in the development of a corona vaccine or in corona tests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-777]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u487	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u488	I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u489	Mr. Chairman. I had a motion in preparation that dealt with the fight against spilling, but through the Minister's first-term commitment to registering or registering care personnel, I will not submit it. However, I would like to endorse a more general motion by Mr Klaver on pivoting, in addition to the motion about the starters of Mr Dijkhoff. There's one motion left for me. It has to do with the young people and the money allocated to them in the interests of ensuring that they are sufficiently involved during their Christmas holidays and that they are sufficiently clear about what is happening at municipal level. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas providing young people with a perspective is both good for physical and mental well-being and can contribute to better compliance with the corona measures;]] [[noting that many municipalities and young people have launched initiatives in the fields of culture, sport and other useful leisure activities;]] [[noting that the cabinet is paying out money to scale up existing initiatives and launch new initiatives;]] [[believes that this should ideally lead to sufficient local provision of activities for young people before Christmas holidays and that the offer should be widely known to young people;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with municipalities before the start of the Christmas holidays how to bring this offer of initiatives to the attention of young people and, if necessary, to support municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-778]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u490	Thank you, Mr President. In this debate, we have once again noted that the cabinet's strategy is to protect us from the virus as much as possible and thereby to protect vulnerable people and to avoid pressure on care. In the coming year, in addition to restrictive measures in society, we will be able to use the vaccine to achieve that protection. I am very curious about the strategy that the cabinet will share with us in January, beginning of the year, after the OMT has given its opinion, to look at the restrictive measures in a different way when we have vaccinated enough people. Until then, part of our society and part of our economy are locked. The additional support package announced by the cabinet today is therefore urgently needed for entrepreneurs who have to make the greatest sacrifice because of the restrictions that have now been imposed. We will keep our finger on the pulse in the near future to see if this supplement to the support package will be sufficient to support the affected entrepreneurs. That is also one of the reasons why my name is under Mr Dijkhoff's motion to look extra at the start-ups. With interest I will follow the field labs, the test areas for events and sports competitions in January. I would once again urge the Minister for Economic Affairs to look very closely at the restaurants when, with the directives they have already drawn up, they can be opened up responsibly again. Also there you can start small, track the effects, and see if you can expand it from there. Finally, Mr President. Mr Klaver will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf, which will monitor young people and students who are often at home because of very limited education. They don't see a lot of perspective due to the loss of side jobs. I am pleased that the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister said that we are going to see how we can make more physical education possible again, because that is very important for all those young people who have been home for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u491	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u492	Mr President, thank you. I've got three motions. The first is about the vaccination strategy. I am really worried about the debate we had with the Minister of Health about whether enough people are being trained at the moment. I really want to stress that I think that the vaccination of people here in the Netherlands is very important, but that this should not be at the expense of testing capacity. We need them both, especially in the first few months, to make sure we get through. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet letter states that the vaccination strategy may have 'effect on test capacity';]] [[Considering that sufficient testing capacity is crucial in countering the further revival of the COVID-19 virus;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the use of test sites for vaccinations is not at the expense of the test capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-779]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u493	Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the waste of vaccines. RIVM estimates that between 50,000 and 100,000 vaccines can be wasted on the first delivery. I really think we should avoid that at all costs. It is not just about the registration that Minister De Jonge was talking about, but we should also look at creative ways to make this possible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of RIVM estimates, consideration should be given to a spill-over rate of 10% - 20% of corona vaccinations;]] [[Whereas corona vaccinations will be scarce and many would like to be vaccinated;]] [[calls on the cabinet to examine how to minimise spill-over,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-780]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u494	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a final motion for a resolution. The social consequences, especially for young people, are enormous. I think that if we are going to try to open up parts of the economy and society again, then we should experiment in education. That is why the next motion, also because different educational institutions already have very concrete plans and we need to start doing so as soon as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than 700,000 students in higher education, and a further 500 000 MBO students, follow distance learning to a greater or lesser extent;]] [[Whereas the opening of lecture rooms and practical classrooms will make a crucial contribution to the quality of education;]] [[Whereas the burden on teachers during this crisis is crucial;]] [[Whereas several educational institutions have indicated their desire to provide more room for education by means of rapid testing;]] [[calls on the Government to set up rapid testing sites at MBO, HBO, and WO institutions that wish to do so by the end of January, with the aim of frequent testing of students and teachers, which can provide more room for regular education and physical passage of exam weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-781]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions from our side. We are rather shocked by the Minister's words that the care workers, who still work part-time, can still work a little extra month in the context of vaccination. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has recently decided that not residents of nursing homes but employees in nursing homes are the first to be vaccinated;]] [[Whereas caregivers in nursing homes are currently being asked to support the GGD in vaccinating nursing home staff;]] [[considers that the workload in nursing homes should be reduced and not raised;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that staffing the central sites of the GGD does not lead to higher workload and fewer staffing in the nursing homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-782]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u496	Then we have a motion on sport. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the coronavirus and the measures taken, fewer children and adults started to work out;]] [[noting that less exercise and exercise leads to more health problems, motion poverty and loneliness and that this should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[believes that sport and exercise should not only be seen as a problem and should therefore be limited for a long time, but as a possible contribution to the solution, namely better health and more resilience to infectious diseases;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its search for opportunities and in consultation with the sports sector to consider how and when amateur sport can be given more room in a responsible manner, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-783]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u497	Finally, a motion on the bonus. In the end, it has not been discussed in the debate, but the fight for a higher salary for care workers has not yet been fought. In the meantime, however, we do not want the bonus to be affected. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that due to the high number of applications for the health care provider bonus, the budget for this has been exceeded by 800 million;]] [[Considering that the Minister for Medical Care and Sport intends to implement the bonus paid in 2021 within the budgetary framework;]] [[considers that caregivers should not receive a smaller bonus in 2021 due to the high number of applications;]] [[calls on the government not to cut the €500 net health bonus paid to healthcare providers in 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-784]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u498	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the level of contamination remains persistently high;]] [[calls on the government to consult the OMT on alternative measures that will speed up the achievement of a lower number of infections and the signal values for ic intakes, thus increasing the prospects for health, jobs and the economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of people whose jobs are at stake and those who are already out of work is increasing enormously;]] [[Whereas it is very important that people can be assured of work and income and that there are large deficits in several other sectors;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, by 1 January at the latest, people at risk of becoming unemployed are entitled to a job guarantee with budget and guidance to new work;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a detailed plan for the Kerstreces, including the number of jobs and their additional budget, for the crisis jobs and to involve municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-785]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-786]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u499	I am optimistic, given the words of Minister Koolmees on this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NOW scheme is intended to keep employees in employment due to a reduction in activity due to exceptional circumstances;]] [[noting that, in view of this objective of the NOW scheme, there are payroll companies which make improper use of the scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to recover the undue amounts from payroll companies and to appeal to interbranch organisations for this improper use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-787]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u500	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u501	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u502	Madam President, thank you. I thank the rulers for the answers. I have co-signed two motions, Mr Dijkhoff's motion on a regulation for start-ups and Mr Heerma's on short-term prospects and activities for young people. I myself had prepared a motion, but I do not submit it because of the generous commitment of the Prime Minister about contact with churches and, as far as I am concerned, other social contexts, such as neighbourhoods. A possible pilot project could be discussed in good consultation with Grapperhaus. I shall therefore wait and see. I also highlight the commitment that there will be a road map after the Kerstreces and that we will discuss it in the next Corona debate. I look forward to that, and so does the Minister of VWS. Finally, I would like to make one final point. The Minister for Health and myself had an interrupting debate on vaccination and low-income countries, with people who have little to spend. He said, "I've written a lot about that." I saw a letter coming from the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. But I also know that nine out of ten people in those poor countries do not have access to a vaccine that we may have left and that not all vaccines have been sold yet. There is also a responsibility. I would therefore remind him very strongly of this responsibility not only to expect solidarity with us, but also to show solidarity not only in a European context, but also across European borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u503	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u504	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u505	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u506	No, the Animal Party is always very reluctant in motions, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u507	Well, I saw some yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u508	But not this time. This is primarily because I would like to thank the Minister for Medical Care very warmly for her very broad and comprehensive answer to our questions. We also thank her for the commitment to return in her next letter to those worrying fungal infections in corona patients in intensive care, who really cost people their lives. I therefore hope that she will take up the motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Ouwehand, from 2013, because we believe that these anti-fungal pesticides really need to be removed from the market as soon as possible. I am very curious about the answers to that. I have one more question. Of course, it's about the zoonoses again. I understand that the Minister of Agriculture is responsible as long as there is a disease going on among animals and that the Minister of Health becomes responsible when that disease passes on to people. You also indicated that you were responsible for preventing this disease from becoming a zoonoses. We have the impression that the Ministry of Health has been a little late so far. I am therefore curious to see how we will try to avoid this in the future. I am also very curious if you also occasionally talk to your fellow minister at LNV to say: that's all nice and nice, but what about those 100 million chickens in the Netherlands and the 12 million pigs we have? Because that really is a ticking time bomb when it comes to zoonoses that can arise. How can it be that we now have one and a half times as many goats in the Netherlands than during the Q-fever crisis? How is it that those numbers grow that way and that's a ticking time bomb? I'm curious about that, because that would be your responsibility. I wish you every success. I hope to receive a reply in the second period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u509	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Sazias... Oh, Mr. Stoffer. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u510	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is focused on reflection and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent weeks it has been so crowded in some shopping areas and inner cities that corona measures could not be observed;]] [[considers that repetition of such situations is undesirable;]] [[Whereas the FNV calls for the regulation of shop opening and door policy around Sundays and public holidays in order to avoid crowds and protect shop staff;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss this call by the FNV with the Security Council and the retail trade,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-788]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u511	Then a motion with a vision for the slightly longer term for entrepreneurs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many entrepreneurs have made use of the opportunity to apply for tax deferral;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet extends the deferred tax payment until 1 April 2021;]] [[Whereas longer delay offers more certainty and perspective to entrepreneurs, more in line with the date on which the payment scheme starts and has little impact on public finances;]] [[calls on the Government to extend until 1 July 2021 the period during which economic operators may apply for a deferred tax or an extension of the deferral,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-789]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have talked about the volunteers in healthcare who do not have a professional status but who are crucial, both in support of care and, for example, in day-to-day spending; that is also support. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a significant shortage of care workers;]] [[Whereas volunteers are indispensable within care and contribute to reducing pressure on care staff;]] [[noting that volunteers are not included in the vaccination strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to involve care volunteers in the corona vaccination as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-790]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u513	Mr. Chairman. Then I really want to come back to the duty of masking and the exceptions for people with medical problems. I do this because I get a lot of signals, also from the Patient Federation and from Each. For example, they say that shopkeepers still refuse these people, even though people do it according to the government's list. In addition, there are even hospitals where people are refused. Both the hotline of Each (in) and that of the Patient Federation are completely flattened. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people unable to wear a mask for medical reasons cannot clearly demonstrate this;]] [[noting that there are cases of people who were refused access because they could not wear a mask;]] [[Whereas it is essential that people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons can demonstrate this clearly and clearly;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with an appropriate solution so that people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons can demonstrate this properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-791]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u514	To ensure that communication is also in order, so that all these people and also the general practitioners are not called...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u515	The motion!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u516	...the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are cases of people who were refused access because they could not wear a mask;]] [[Whereas not all occupational groups responsible for ensuring that people wear masks are clearly informed about people who cannot wear masks for medical reasons;]] [[Whereas it is not clear to many Dutch people that there are people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons;]] [[calls on the government to communicate clearly about the fact that there are people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-792]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u517	That's it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u518	No, you can't say anything anymore, because you've been through your speaking time for a long time. Would you like to issue the motions? I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u519	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first one is about PCR tests. Not all scientists think this is the gold standard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a withdrawal request has recently been made on the Corman-Drosten paper, on the basis of which many PCR tests have been designed;]] [[Whereas, in the meantime, several scientific sources have shown that the PCR test is unsuitable for the purpose for which it is currently being used;]] [[Whereas members of the OMT have also indicated that the PCR test does not demonstrate infection with COOVID-19;]] [[calls on the Government to use the PCR test only in conjunction with additional clinical studies and not to speak of 'contaminations' in only a positive PCR test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-793]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u520	The second motion is about the ban on fireworks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has decided that this year, in connection with corona, no consumer fireworks may be sold and/or disposed of;]] [[whereas this total ban on fireworks affects not only consumers but also numerous entrepreneurs who are already struggling during the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas the fireworks problem is mainly an enforcement problem;]] [[calls on the Government to simply allow the sale and/or removal of consumer fireworks this year within the rules in force and not to proceed to a total ban on fireworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-794]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u521	My final motion concerns the duty of the mouth cap. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been an obligation to protect the mouth since 1 December 2020;]] [[whereas both the Minister of VWS and RIVM have repeatedly indicated that wearing mouth caps only offers false safety;]] [[Whereas several scientific studies have shown that wearing mouth caps can cause medical damage;]] [[having regard to the fact that a duty to protect the face constitutes a serious breach of privacy as laid down in Article 10 of our Constitution;]] [[Whereas there has been no study of the added value of a mouth cap compared to the situation in which many people voluntarily wear a mouth cap;]] [[expresses its disapproval of the government's policy on the introduction of a mouth cap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet, Mr Krol and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-795]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u522	Thank you, Madam President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are catering operators who have coronaproofed their business;]] [[Whereas many catering operators are on the verge of bankruptcy;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the lockdown for the catering industry that can comply with the corona measures under conditions;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-796]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u523	Second motion. I understand from the Prime Minister that the Minister of the Interior is coming with a letter on the declaration of support. That is good, but I have a specific wish to make. This is so important, Madam President, that I am going to ask you to put that motion to the vote tomorrow because of the time it takes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas political parties participating in the Lower House elections for the first time need sufficient statements of support in each constituency;]] [[Whereas the corona measures may prevent voters from going to a municipal office to submit a declaration of support;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently adopt legislation allowing the digital submission of the statement of support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-797]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u524	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u525	Thank you. For a vote on one motion tomorrow, you need a majority. I'll take a look at the Prime Minister. Ten minutes? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u526	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u527	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 774 on the reopening of the catering industry. With reference to the debate and the OMT opinion: advise against. The Stoffer/Marijnissen motion in part No. 788. With reference to the debate: Judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 794 on the ban on fireworks. With reference to previous decision-making and the importance of the burden of care: advise against. The motion in part No. 796 to suspend the lockdown for the catering industry under conditions. With reference to the debate and the OMT opinion: advise against. Then the motion to part No. 797 on the support statements to be submitted digitally. The Kieswet provides that a declaration of support is made at the town hall in front of an official. This is necessary in order to prevent abuse, for example the recruitment of these statements or their making under duress. That is why we are not in favour of making statements digitally. Municipalities may set up the procedure for making declarations of coronaproof. In addition, the motion is not enforceable. The period within which aid declarations may be made shall start on 4 January 2021. It does not seem feasible to have the law adapted by both chambers before that time. Also municipalities cannot set up a process within less than a month to make it possible to pass through DigiD. On balance, therefore, the motion is dissuaded. But I told you there's gonna be another letter from the Home Secretary. It goes to the municipalities, by the way, but we will encourage a copy of that letter to be sent to the Chamber. Mr President, those were the motions I wanted to comment on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u528	I understand the Prime Minister's objections, but I have one request. Now a lot of people have the problem that city halls let people in alone by appointment. It's very difficult to turn in those statements of support. Would you at least take that point with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u529	In any case, I will bring that to the attention of my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. The letter to the municipalities goes to the Chamber in a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u530	Mr Krol, was it this motion you wanted to vote on tomorrow? We're not gonna do that? Okay, then it's clear. Who's the next speaker? Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u531	Thank you, Mr President. The motion in part No. I am going to dissuade Mr Wilders from 773. We have had a good debate on it, but I do not want to give the impression that they really belong to the very first group. Because I can't live up to that. But right after that. I can make that happen. That's what I think we should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u532	I thought I was doing it in the spirit of what the Minister said. Then I'll make it, if that helps, to add the 70-pluser with comorbidity if possible. Is that enough? Then it is in line with what you say: if it can, it can, and if it can't, not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u533	I heard Mrs. Agema's suggestion. She says "in the first groups." Then I can do it, because it is the group that is just behind the very first group. I'm afraid if I say "judge chamber" here, it can be misunderstood. It is already quite complicated to communicate about the vaccination programme in a precise way. I really don't want to make any mistake about that. 'In the first groups' is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u534	Okay. Then we do not 'if possible', but then we make it 'to add to the first groups'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u535	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u536	The Wilders motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to add self-employed 70-plusers with comorbidity to the groups of people who are the first to be vaccinated because they are at greater risk of a more serious development of COVID-19 and therefore to make greater use of hospitals, where a rapid reduction in the number of covid patients is highly desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. , was No. 773 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u537	Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 776. He asks to investigate which corona measures work convincingly and so on. I'm not going to investigate that separately, so I'm going to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u538	This motion is yours, Mr. Wilders? It says "Agema," but it's Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u539	Then the motion to part No. 777.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u540	You can't do that. Mrs. Agema knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u541	Has the administration been updated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u542	That's not quite the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u543	The motion in part No. 777. Of course, there can be no conflict of interest. That's just standing policy. I don't think this motion adds anything to that, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u544	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u545	That's too bad. But I had also asked for a response to that message about Mr Kluytmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u546	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u547	Yes, I'll send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u548	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u549	In the motion in part No. 779 the government is invited to ensure that the use of test sites for vaccinations does not compromise the test capacity. Of course, all efforts are also focused on this. The GGD also states that vaccination of that first vaccination group will not be at the expense of the test capacity. So if I may explain the motion in such a way that all efforts are made to achieve that, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 780 I leave to the Chamber. Of course, all efforts are aimed at preventing all waste or spilling, a much more beautiful word. For that word alone, this motion deserves the judgment of the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 781 the government is invited to set up rapid testing sites at MBO, HBO and WO institutions by the end of January. I need to be more specific about that. I shall leave this motion to the House, but I would like to make a number of comments. Firstly, it is already possible to set up these test streets on MBO, HBO and WE settings. Secondly, the asymptomatic use of antigen tests has not yet been validated. This will not be possible until January, after validation. Thirdly, employers can have their workers tested with complaints in track 2. They are already invited to this. By the way, I think it would be a good idea to take this up with the Minister of OCW and see with her how I can best shape it. With these reservations, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. In the motion in part No. 782 the government is asked to prevent the manning of the central location of the GGD leading to a higher workload and fewer staffing in the nursing homes. Of course we will do so, so I will also leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 785 tabled by Mr Asscher, the government is asked to consult the OMT on alternative measures leading to a reduction in the number of infections and the signal values for ic recordings. Every time we ask the OMT to advise us on the measures to be taken in relation to the state of the economy. The motion suggests we're going to put another type of question to the OMT. I wouldn't recommend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u550	Mr. Asscher, what motion would you like to ask a question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u551	The motion the minister just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u552	That's the motion in part No. 785.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u553	I didn't quite get the pre-advisation. Doesn't it make sense to ask the OMT?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u554	Yes, but you are suggesting that we are going to ask something different than we are actually asking the OMT every time at the moment, namely: advise us on the measures we need to take, given the state of the economy and given the strategy we have in order to get to the level of risk 1 as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u555	The OMT writes: the cabinet has asked us to pass on the following relaxations and to make the following increases. So apparently the OMT advises on the basis of that question. That is not the general epidemiological question. My request would be that this be something which I think the Minister for Health can fully support in order to give that question. What's it gonna take to get down faster? It seems as if that question has not now been explicitly asked by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u556	Every time we ask the OMT to advise us on what to do, given the state of the economy and given the government's strategy, namely to protect the vulnerable and ensure that care remains able to cope, and given the way we have to move as quickly as possible to the first level of risk. That is the basic question that the OMT is always asked. If we deviate from that, for example through the question of which relaxations might be possible around the Christmas period, then that is a separate question to add. But if we simply follow the strategy that the cabinet has been pursuing for some time, then there is no separate question to add. I would object to that on this motion. It suggests that you put a separate question, a new question, to the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u557	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u558	Last time, Mr. Chairman. In response to questions from me and Mrs Marijnissen, the Prime Minister said that the strategy is to steer against as few infections as possible, i.e. to contain them. That means that you ask the OMT what is the best strategy to contain it if that is your strategy, but that suggestion has been made by the Prime Minister, or that you add it explicitly now if we have not yet asked that question. I don't know, because I can't see what questions the cabinet is asking. But given the Prime Minister's answer, it seems logical to me to put that question to the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u559	I fear that if I were to react now, I would repeat what I have just said. I would advise against Mr Asscher's motion. Then the motion to part No. 790 by Mrs Sazias, in which the cabinet is asked to involve care volunteers in the vaccination. This is in fact the same argument as Mr Wilders's. We've defined the group very precisely. 265,000 staff in nursing care are in the very first group. If I add the volunteers to that, I don't know if I'm gonna get out with the first delivery. That is why we need to be very precise. Unfortunately, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u560	You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Sazias. There's another motion from you. And another, so a total of three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u561	The motion in part No. 791 calls on the government to come up with an appropriate solution so that people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons can demonstrate this. I should like to leave the judgement to the Chamber with the following interpretation. The communication at Government, Vilans and client organisations is that a V-shield can be used and that a ticket is issued for the exception that a tool or a reference is allowed. We will, of course, talk to the client organisations to see how we can get this to land as smoothly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u562	Short, Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u563	Yeah, back to the care volunteers. For that reason, perhaps you can see that in the motion the words 'at the first stage' have been crossed out, because I understand that this cannot of course be done in the first phase. That is why I have put it 'as soon as possible', because I would like this group to stay in sight and be seen as important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u564	Okay. I hadn't read the motion that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u565	Now you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u566	Yes. In any case, I will clearly inform the Chamber on the next steps with a roadmap. I think it would be a good idea to respond to this request. If I may explain 'as soon as possible' in this way, I would like to come back to that at a further moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u567	What's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u568	Then judgment can be left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u569	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u570	Then the motion to part No. 792, which calls on the government to communicate clearly about the fact that there are people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons. I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 795 I do not have to judge, for it says: pronounce. Then the motion to part No. 793. I'm sorry, it should have been in a different order. It calls on the government to use the PCR test, which is only to be used in conjunction with additional clinical studies and not to speak of infections. Of course, I'm not going to recommend that motion. Then I have some questions to answer from the first term. Those were questions from the Animal Party about the EEA. The EEA reported it. The CERT-EU is involved in supporting it. There's research going on right now. For that reason, no further announcements. I have to leave it at that for now. Then the approach lifestyle. I have already told you that the Secretary of State himself would like to come back to this in more detail. He wants to do that before Christmas. Then there's the air pollution and the connection to contamination. We've talked about this before. The possible link is currently unknown on the basis of available research. RIVM has been asked to explore research opportunities on the relationship between air quality, livestock farming and COVID-19. The RIVM has made a reconnaissance for that. Soon we will decide together with the relevant ministers from VWS, IenW and LNV how we will implement this and we will inform you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u571	Can I just know what "soon" means?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u572	Soon. Let's say January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u573	Okay. Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u574	Thank you, Mr President. There is another question from Mrs Van Esch about contact with LNV. I think that's enough. We have a lot of contact. We have constant consultations. We also come up with the plan to deal with zoonoses, in accordance with the Old Hand motion that was tabled earlier. Perhaps that will be this year, but otherwise at least early next year. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two motions. The motion in part No. 783 by Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher are about sports and movement. I'd love to take that request. I would like to say that I also regard this as a heartfelt commitment of the Chamber to sport. So I'm gonna give that motion a ruling, Chamber. The motion in part No. 784. We have indeed indicated in the budget that there is a €500 net health bonus in the books for 2021. That is certainly the intention. However, I have indicated that, in connection with the overrun, I am talking to the sector, to the employers, to see how we get this bonus in the right place. That is because it is for people who have done extra work in the context of corona, but in that sense I am giving the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u575	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u576	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 772 by Mr Dijkhoff and others I will explain this a little bit more, but I shall begin by expressing my sympathy for this motion. This is a quest that not only I am enthusiastic about, but also the Secretary of State for EZK. I just want to clarify a few points. The goal is clear, namely to allow starters to survive. There are also a number of conditions with which Mr Dijkhoff, who spoke on this point, is undoubtedly in agreement. He too does not want empty promises and he does not want to waste taxpayers' money. The Secretary of State must therefore comply with four conditions in the implementation of this motion. First of all, it has to be executable, otherwise it doesn't make sense. It must not be state aid, because it is being recovered by the committee. We can't have that. There's got to be a credit rating test in advance, because otherwise we're all gonna open locks, and then it's gonna go wrong. It must also fit within the financial frameworks of the liquidity instruments we currently have. The latter, moreover, I think, is feasible. That's the four preconditions. I still see Mr Dijkhoff on board. Then there's one complication. He'll understand that, too. As long as I'm looking, I'm never quite sure I'm gonna find it. The same applies, of course, to the Secretary of State. We would therefore like to see this as a firm commitment. Having said that, I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber. I very much support the objective. Then the motion to part No. 775. I refer to the debate with Mr Wilders, and I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 789 by Mr Stoffer. I don't want to anticipate the second quarter. I have made that clear to Mr Stoffer, and I must therefore reject the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u577	Thank you. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u578	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two further motions and they are both by Mr Asscher. The first is the motion in part No. 786 of Asscher, Marijnissen and Klaver. Two requests are made. The first request is, in fact, an Asscher motion which has been tabled before and which I am now carrying out. This concerns work to work and what we started last week in Groot-Amsterdam, Utrecht and Brabant. The second request concerns the jobs in crisis. I just promised it'd be next week. So I am already working on both requests, and that is why I would advise against the motion. The next motion is the motion in part No. 787. In the first term, I have already promised to consult with the organisations, the payroll companies. I have two further comments to make. One. There may be improper use and we do not know now whether it is. That needs to be looked at carefully first, otherwise we will accuse someone of possible abuse when that is not the case at all. That's one. Furthermore, I've already promised that I'm going to have a conversation. Against that background, I would like to discourage this motion. So I am also doing so because I do not know whether, given what I said in the first period of time, I can recover the rules and the legal conditions attached to them. Both dissuaded, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u579	I understand from the Minister's words that he also requests the second operative part of the motion in part No. 786 is actually running that way already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u580	Sure. That's what we call the corona lanes. You call it crisis jobs, but a motion has already been tabled on the corona courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u581	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u582	I'm implementing that motion. I also said in the first term that I will be coming up with a letter on this next week. It is true that it concerns sectors such as municipalities, enforcement, care and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u583	Including numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u584	Yeah, and budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u585	Okay. That was just not clear in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u586	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u587	But what do you do with the motion? Are you gonna keep it on, or are you gonna put it to the vote? You can also decide on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u588	I'm going to have a very quiet meeting about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u589	That's good. Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-12.u590	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the ministers, the MPs, the messengers and the stenography service.
