ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35430, Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment (XV) for the year 2020 (Second incidental supplementary budget on the employment and economic emergency package). I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber. I repeat that the fixed interrupt microphones, which were operated by hand, have been replaced by a microphone that can be operated by the foot. I would also like to inform Members that if you submit a motion, you will have to read the text yourself and then put this motion on the bench to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has great respect for the fact that the cabinet has adopted measures as quickly and decisively as possible to maintain as much employment as possible. That was a hell of a job. Even the always energetic minister we saw occasionally visibly tired in front of the cameras. Then it must have come a long way. We admire that. At the same time, we do not believe that public funds can be channelled to business for a long time without conditions. We understand we have to do it quickly and generically now. You shouldn't sit here and whimper and hoppakee, speed it up. But we also see degenerates now. That's what we're all talking about. Then at this point only a moral apple will suffice. If, after 1 May, a continuation of the NOW, in particular, were to take place in one form or another, and this could happen, then in the eyes of GroenLinks, clear conditions should be attached to state aid. Because it's about very, very, very much money. That is public money that is put on the table left or right by the taxpayer. If that goes to private companies, then it will have to be subject to conditions in the social field. Then we are talking about bonuses, stock issues and dividend payments. Then we're talking tax havens. We are also talking about sustainability conditions. The government wants to help companies move into the future, but the condition is that these companies make it clear that they want to be part of that future too. In summary. We now wholeheartedly support the change in the budget, but we will, in the event of a possible extension, be very critical of the conditions we have set out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Then Mrs Sent will have the floor after the cathedral has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Van Gurp, I would like to congratulate the cabinet on the enormous strength and clarity that has been created in the very short term. In the spirit of Mr Redemeijer, who has just been commemorated, I would like to say that I think it is a privilege to work for the Senate rather than to play a role in parliamentary democracy, although of course the latter is not insignificant either. We have already had a written exchange of views with the cabinet on the legislative proposal before us. I would like to highlight a number of points which, as far as we are concerned, have not been fully or satisfactorily answered. The first concerns the conditions under which companies may avail themselves of the measures. As far as we are concerned, very reasonable conditions are for companies to pay decent taxes, for them not to pay bonuses, for them to take on the obligation to pay taxes in the future, for a compulsory shareholder's contribution to be demanded, and for redundancies not to be made if the scheme is used. In response, the Cabinet states that the retroactive addition of burdensome conditions to the NOW is contrary to both the principles of legal certainty and the principles of trust. However, I would like to point out that praeter legem: extra-legal standards that are in line with the spirit of the law. As far as my group is concerned, these are rules and conditions which comply with the spirit of the law. I'd like to hear a reflection from the Minister on this. In the written procedure, Mr Van Gurp also referred to the fact that, should the arrangement be renewed after 31 May, we will be informed about the conditions. I would like to add the wish to discuss these conditions. So not only the presentation of the conditions, but also the space to influence the formation of opinion. Then there is the matter of the motion in the House of Representatives on the temporary, enforceable regulation for flex workers who have lost their jobs since 1 March. The answer says that the government is coming up with a response to this point this week. Is that a reaction like "that's how we're gonna do it" or a reaction like "I can't"? I would like a little more clarity from the Minister. In the written procedure, we asked for attention to be paid to the importance for companies to be financed more with equity and less with debt, in line with a motion by Mr Koolmees. We are also pleased that steps are being taken there. The Consultative Commission on the Taxation of Multinationals pays attention to this. The cabinet will examine the recommendations and expect to come forward with a policy response this summer. I would like to ask the commitment to share the policy response with the First Chamber in good time, so that we can also discuss it. Finally, the evaluation of the emergency package before us. We understand that, given the current circumstances, a formal evaluation is highly complex. Indeed, they have been taken too recently and the transition is changing depending on the circumstances. The use of the schemes is carefully monitored, as we read in the note following the report. The Chamber will want to be informed about this, it also says. What is the frequency with which this Chamber is informed and at what time will the Chamber be informed about this monitoring? Once again, so that we can also play our part in the parliamentary process. In doing so, I would like to conclude this improvised contribution and once again thank the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group greatly appreciates the commitment and speed with which the Minister and the Secretary of State have put forward this proposal. In my explanation of vote on 7 April, in the first supplementary budget of the Ministry of Finance, I said that these emergency measures must be global and gross. Let me repeat the point made by the Minister of Finance: yes, new measures will be introduced and adjustments will be needed. Is the Minister prepared to come up with appropriate arrangements after an evaluation, following on from Mrs Sent's request and further conditions, which can be discussed in time? I am thinking of the extremely generic scheme for the 90% wage supplement. I only have to mention Booking.com and my question is quite clear. The Minister is right to say that the regulation is as it is, and that it confers rights on everyone. Generic and coarse, I've called that before. But it is also, of course, about maintaining the indispensable social and political support for the coming period. I'd like an answer from the Minister. The WW duration. My group has raised the question of whether the duration of the WW can be temporarily frozen for everyone and can go through during the crisis, because finding jobs is now extremely difficult. The Minister said yesterday in the answers: no, that's not necessary, we see that some people are having a hard time. That's a point to think about. But we have a good social security system, which they can fall back on. First the WW, then the welfare. Of course, we find that a somewhat disappointing answer. But there's another variant. In the House of Representatives Van Kent van de SP and Smeulders van GroenLinks asked the Minister if he was willing to extend the WW by three months. The answer was again no. I quote the Minister in part: 'it is not easy to implement in the short term because all kinds of changes must take place in the UWV systems and also in the law'. In reply to Question 28 of the House of Representatives, the Minister had also referred to the legal inequality between people whose WW law ended before the corona crisis and people whose WW law ended during the corona crisis. The Minister is right to point this out. But there's so much legal inequality already. Consider the turnover criterion of the chosen reference period in the compensation scheme. These are people who have been out of work for a long time and for whom the chance of finding work has become almost nil at one blow, those jobseekers who will soon lose the WW benefit and fall back on the welfare safety net, with all the consequences. The Minister refused to extend the duration of the WW for three months, but I ask him to reconsider this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a case concerning the AOW beneficiaries. The cabinet wants to do everything possible to minimise the damage caused by corona to people's activity, entrepreneurship and work and income, but an AOW-holder self-employed person who, due to the crisis, falls below the minimum social level that can be done by an incomplete AOW scheme cannot make use of the limited conditional special assistance part or of the loan part of the Tozo scheme. For the income supplement to the social minimum for AOW beneficiaries through the AIO, general income support, a capital limit of over €6,000 applies for a single and over €12,000 for a few, per year. So that's a few hundred euros, €500 to €600, per month. As a result, many AOW entitled self-employed entrepreneurs are not at all eligible for income supplements to the social minimum. My group asks the Minister and the Secretary of State if they are prepared to make the following two arrangements. A: Granting access to the special assistance part of the Tozo scheme by self-employed AOW entitled entrepreneurs on equal terms or temporarily granting access to the AIO. Two: granting access to the loan part of the Tozo scheme by self-employed AOW entitled entrepreneurs. We await the Minister's answers with interest, but we would like to say here that we will wholeheartedly support the draft law. I'm waiting for the Secretary of State's answers, I understand. Thank you for the tip, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the members of the cabinet and the government who are represented here. You guys still look good, while I think you guys are working really hard. I understand that I'm wrong about you right now, because I have to do it through the chairman. Mr President, I think they still look good. I have an extraordinary respect for a government that is now dared to rule. The special thing is that the government is not currently ruling on the basis of the coalition agreement, which is why that government was not my government either, but on the basis of something vague, namely: we must do everything that is necessary to guide us through this crisis as best we can, knowing that a number of things that we do will not prove to be right afterwards or have not knocked at all. Then you must show courage and I think that this should also be said by Parliament as such. Conversely, a lot of courage is being asked of Parliament. If the government decides to make 100% decisions on the basis of 50% information, then so should we. We also say yes or no on the basis of extremely poor information. That would never be possible in a normal procedure, but now it is impossible. That also means that this Chamber is having an extra hard time. Because how do you reflect if you don't have the necessary basic information? That's very complicated. So I also think this Chamber is doing its best to see it all. I am pleased, however, that I have already said that the Netherlands did not choose to rule by decree but that we simply govern as it should, with a government making proposals and a parliament responding to them. I told you, mistakes have been calculated. In this first supplementary budget, I have already said that my party justifies it. It's the only way. But that does not mean that we should not be extremely alert to every signal that indicates that regulations, especially if they are so robust and so generic, can also be abused. On behalf of my group, I congratulate all those people who are currently doing their best to use the rules that are there as they are intended. I am ashamed of those who are still not too bad at the moment to say: okay, if a box of money is being opened up, why should we not draw from it? I think it is scandalous, and I hope that the government will also act robustly against it if these measures are to be extended further. You have the support of the Dutch people, I think, at least on that point. I would like to draw attention to one specific point. We're talking about billions. There is something relatively small here, namely the food banks which are currently able to provide a special, non-bureaucratic provision of aid to people who may be affected by the effects of this crisis and later by the socio-economic crisis. Now the government is providing a sum of 4 million to allow the food banks to do their extra work. In the House of Representatives, there was a proposal to increase that amount, at least to ensure that food banks with their unique structure, which can react immediately and do not need to be bureaucratic, are placed more broadly in the funds. There was a proposal to raise that amount to 10 million, but the government rejected it. I would still like to know from the government why we are penny-wise in this. It's millions, but elsewhere we talk about billions. Can the government at least give a guarantee that, should the use of food banks be greater than we can now estimate, we do not yet know what will happen if it is prepared to act unbureaucraticly and directly and still give the food banks the room to do their important work? I understand that this is not the task of the government, but there were many things not the task of the government, but in special circumstances we must take special steps. Furthermore, Mr Van Rooijen's proposal to introduce a fairly simple measure, namely to extend the WW for three months, can of course receive my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm suspending the meeting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a regulation 35430. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the questions asked in the first term. I'll start with a brief introduction and then I'll go through all the staccato questions. The questions about the AOW and about the food banks are answered by the Secretary of State. I'll do the rest. Mr. Chairman. Because of the corona crisis, we see work stopped everywhere. The crisis has a huge impact on the whole economy: from large companies that everyone knows with a lot of employees to small self-employed or the bakery on the corner. The cabinet's commitment is to limit the economic impact of the coronavirus, to support companies and to ensure that people retain their jobs and, above all, their income at that stage of the crisis. That is why we have put together the emergency package for jobs and the economy. That is why we are allocating a few billion euros for a period of three months. Today's agenda includes the second incidental supplementary budget, which includes the NOW, the Tozo, the Caribbean Netherlands scheme and the allowance for the own contribution for childcare costs. Before I give the answer, I would like to make two general comments which are of interest to your Chamber as well. First of all, expectations management. The coronavirus has a profound impact on our society and our economy. None of the government's packages will take away those effects. There will be people who lose their jobs, unfortunately. There's gonna be companies falling down, too. I think it is important to emphasise this, because, as a cabinet, we are really taking everything out of the box to fight this crisis, but there are also practical limits to what the government can do. Our arrangements will never be perfect and will never reach anyone. We cannot ask any more of our executive organisations than they can handle. That is my first point. My second comment. This is without prejudice to continuing to look at where our arrangements can be improved. We're holding the finger on the wrist. The emergency package doesn't stop either. As you may have seen, two additional letters have come in the meantime. Last week, one from Minister Wiebes, Secretary of State Keijzer and Secretary of State Vijlbrief on guarantee schemes and on start-ups and scale-ups, but also on additional arrangements for, for example, ornamental farming and the cultural sector. So we keep the finger on the wrist. If there's any need for surgery, we'll do it. We are closely monitoring the economy and the labour market. We also have meetings every week with the representatives of the employers' organizations and the trade unions, especially to hear from sectors where employers and trade unions run into problems. Let me now turn to the specific questions that have been asked. All four of the questioners asked questions about the conditions for a possible extension of the NOW. Thanks for the compliments, too. I would also like to pass that on to the UWV, which has done a really big job in the short term. Meanwhile, we are talking about EUR 1.5 billion that has been paid out within two weeks, to about 80,000 companies. So that really is a huge task to have managed so quickly. But, of course, I also see the discussion about the conditions. Mr. Van Gurp said, "Hupsakee, here we go." In my opinion, that was his first-term literal text, and that was also the reasoning we used as a cabinet. We need to act quickly and massively now, which is why this has to be a simple arrangement. I myself called it a "stupid scheme" which is applicable to everyone, so for the bakery on the corner and for a catering tent, but also for a large listed company. However, in the event of a possible extension of the measures, the conditions may be changed. You know that we have now announced this package for three months, with the possibility of a further three months. That is why we have explicitly stated that the conditions can be changed. We have done this consciously, because we also have a little more time to look at it: how does this work out, what effect does this have, where does this come down and what gaps remain in the scheme? There are also the possible additional conditions that can be included in such a scheme, which the various representatives of the Upper Chamber have asked for. I also stated in the written reply last night that we are keeping that finger on the wrist, that we can impose additional conditions for the second package and that I will also refer it to your Chamber. The latter was, in my view, an explicit question from Mrs Sent and Mr Van Gurp. We will. Of course, you are talking about your own agenda. I would not dare to go into it, but I would like to discuss with you the conditions under which it can be done. Mrs Sent asked a question about generic behaviour in the spirit of the law and the subsequent amendment of the regulation. The current regime has, of course, come under great pressure. The emphasis was on simplicity, on rapid benefits and on rapid implementation, i.e. quick support for employers, as they had to pay salaries in March and April. That was the balance, and we did it because of the feasibility, because we knew that there were already 55,000 companies in the reduction in working time waiting for a quick answer. We also had signals that it might involve 100,000 to 150,000 companies. So we had to focus on speed and massality, and on speed in execution. That just didn't fit all kinds of conditions. It just didn't work out, not even in what you can do as a performer afterwards. It is not possible, therefore, to change the conditions afterwards in the spirit of the law. Then you have already published a scheme that companies comply with. If you change the terms afterwards, you're an unreliable government. We have thought about how we can adjust in the meantime, hence the passage in the regulation which states that after three months we will indeed review the conditions, and then see if we need to adjust them. Once again, I would like to discuss this with your Chamber, because I think it is important that there is social support for the emergency measures that we take as a cabinet. Mrs Sent referred to a motion that I tabled myself as spokesman for taxation in the Lower House a few years ago together with Mr Nijboer and Mrs Schouten. It's nice to be confronted with your past once in a while. This is the file of the Secretary of State for Finance. I'll pass the request on to him. I think there will also be a cabinet response to last week's report. As I also mentioned yesterday in the written set, it's a bit of a hobby of mine; I think that's just funny, of course, in ATAD 1 and ATAD 2 steps have been taken in the more fiscally equal treatment of equity and debt. But Mrs. Sent knows that. Mrs Sent also asked about the frequency with which the Chamber is informed about the monitoring of the scheme. I think that is a fair question. Frankly, as the Prime Minister put it, we have to make 100% of the decisions with 50% of the knowledge. So the first stage is really that we are looking for the consequences of this: what do we actually see? There is some delay in this, but I have already told the House of Representatives that at the end of April I would like to give an initial overview of the figures available about the use and the amount and that kind of matter, both of the Tozo and of the NOW. I would therefore like to give some figures on the impact on the labour market. What do we see going on down there? I'll be happy to send that to your Chamber in a copy. Then we also need to think with the House of Representatives and with you about more structural monitoring. I think it is important that we do so after the adoption of any extension and its conditions. Mrs Sent also asked what the reaction was to the flex motion in the House of Representatives last Thursday. "That's how we're gonna do it" or "it can't"? Unfortunately, I'm still in the phase where I'm skipping in between. I prefer to make something that is easy to implement and reaches the group that threatens to fall between shore and ship. Last week I indicated in the Lower House that it is really very difficult in the execution, not only because it is a group that falls between shore and ship, so it is not in the regular systems, but also because both performers are now very busy; the UWV with the WW applications and the implementation of the NOW and the municipalities with the implementation of the Tozo scheme. 240,000zzp's have applied for aid under the Tozo scheme. The feasibility is really an issue. I think that if we ask the performers to pick up something, it should be possible. There's still a headache in there with me. I'm having the conversations right now, and I actually want to come up with a letter very quickly about what we're thinking about. I wish I could be more specific, but unfortunately I can't yet. I hope it will be "that's how we're gonna do it," I say to Mrs. Sent. Mr. Otten, that's very close.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u13	Yeah, but a foot and a half. I'll stay behind the red line. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is talking about feasibility. I receive a lot of worried messages from small and large entrepreneurs andzzp'ers. Some of them have been waiting for an answer for a month. There are a lot of formalities that they have to complete, such as annual accounts from three years ago, which are in fact pointless in the current rapidly changing situation. How's it going? These signals reach me from all angles and holes, from the cultural sector to entrepreneurs in the catering industry, and you name it, and don't forget thezzp'ers. How many of these applications have been dealt with; rejected or allocated? And when do these people get their money? If this takes too long, then the surgery will be successful but the patient will die, so I would ask that we really speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u14	We must distinguish between the NOW scheme and the Tozo scheme. Under the NOW scheme, companies are thrown out of the process at the UWV because they do not meet the conditions. There are poignant examples of this, including on social media. There were a number of videos of entrepreneurs who, for example, started on 1 February and are therefore not in the January pay register. That's the casuism. That's why I talked about expectations management in my introduction, because I can't solve everything. I find that frustrating, but I have to match the execution with data that the UWV has, otherwise we cannot do this in the short term. There aren't that many rejections. I will send you an overview in April, showing how many there are and what the reasons are. I also keep my finger on the wrist to see if it's still explaining and just. I'll just say that I can't straighten everything out. We have used the January wage bill, also with a view to combating fraud and misuse. Why? It's fixed, and it can't be manipulated anymore. The wage bill of March or April can indeed be manipulated and then we get all kinds of nasty stories that, so to speak, the mother-in-law is also put on the payroll, for a good salary. That also undermines the basis of support, so we have to make a choice, including for feasibility. We have done so, but we will keep our finger on the pulse in terms of unjust consequences. That's one. The Secretary of State will be able to say more about the Tozo scheme. This has to do with different municipalities dealing differently with the conditions that are set, for example in relation to the partner and asset test, but also the viability test. They have actually been put out of operation at the Tozo and should therefore not play a role, but sometimes they still do in practice. The Secretary of State is about to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u15	One more addition to that. You have opted for a new arrangement. I fully agree with you that we should use the wage bill of January or February, at least before the crisis. Afterwards, would it not have been more practical for the UWV to arrange that the wages for January were advanced to the employees concerned? Then there is no possibility of fraud, because those workers were on the payroll. This can then be settled later with the entrepreneur. Then a legality test is also very easy to do. I would therefore urge the Minister and the Secretary of State to be more practical. There may be something wrong with one case at some point, but it is now about the general interest and that this is happening quickly. And the speed is really essential. And I'm getting a lot of signals that this is taking too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u16	It's precisely because of that speed that we connected to the January data. So the advance that those companies have received, the EUR 1.5 billion in advances that have already been paid, is based on January's payroll data. They are available for the UWV and that is why it is possible to transfer EUR 1.5 billion within ten days. If we had not done so, if we had waited, so to speak, for the wage bill of March, that data would have only been in by now and we would only be able to transfer it now. So what Mr Otten says, we do in practice. At the same time, there are examples of companies falling apart. This is often casuistic and I cannot always solve that completely, but everything is aimed at rapid benefits, including the Tozo for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u17	Mr Otten, the third on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u18	My final question, Mr President. You say 1.5 billion, and I do not think that is such a shocking amount in this larger picture. How much has been requested? So 1.5 billion has now been paid out, but how much has been applied for? That must be 10 billion or more, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u19	No. 1.5 billion is for one month. So what we have now: about 80,000 companies................................................................................................................................................................................................ Of these, a few hundred fell out because of no right to do so. For these 80,000 companies, the compensation in wage costs is 1.5 billion for one month. The scheme lasts three months, so three times 1.5 billion is 4.5 billion. At the same time, I expect a few additional amounts, because companies are facing a fall in turnover or have a different stock system. So they're not going to report for the NOW until April. So that amount will increase, and that is why we have earmarked 10 billion in this supplementary budget, which has already been allocated roughly 4.5 billion. But these are all numbers out of my head, so I could be a few thousand off, but it's about the direction. Now what Mr Van Rooijen asked. Indeed, the extension of the WW was also requested in the Lower House. There will indeed be people in the coming period whose entitlement to benefits will expire, while the economy is not yet fully functioning. Therefore, finding work is more difficult than it was over a month ago, when we were still in the bizarre situation where unemployment was 2.9%, the lowest level since we measured it. So that really is a very rapid change in the economic environment we are in. The coming year will most likely be a year of economic contraction; that is simply the reality. But before that, of course, we also have the social security system, which is why we have the WW and therefore we have the Disease Act and that is why we have the WIA and the Participation Act. If the benefit expires at the UWV, there may also be a right to assistance. In my view, the current system of social security is satisfactory. That is why, in the House of Representatives, I did not advise Mr Van Kent and Mr Smeulders of last week. I have also said that it is not easy: not a quick fix; not even in the systems, not even in the feasibility of the scheme, nor in the granting of benefits. That's because in recent years a system has been rigged in which the work history has been kept, the referee requirements: so how many weeks have you worked compared to the standard period, what is your earning ability? So there's a very complicated system behind it. So if you want to change that, you need to change the law. It also requires ICT adjustments, and large ICT adjustments at a time when the UWV is of course also very busy processing many more WW applications. That is, of course, also the reality, especially for people in a flexible shell or agency workers who have a working history and are entitled to WW. Our estimate is that about 68% of people in the flexible skin are entitled to a WW benefit. Last week, we sent those figures to the House of Representatives. This means that the UWV will be very busy processing these applications in the coming period. So that's also something that can happen in the performance there. Mr Van Rooijen also spoke in his speech about people who have been in the WW for a long time and who are now, for example, receiving assistance. I would like to add two things. One is: I understand that it's complicated to find a job. That's just reality, that's really true for anyone who's looking for a job right now. But there are two things. People who have been or have been in the WW for a long time also generally have a longer working history, otherwise you will not have a longer WW duration. This means that people were in the WW during the period with very low unemployment and were unable to find a job. Those examples are there. Then it feels a little unfair, let me put it this way: we say to some people 'you just have to go into assistance, because this is the new economic reality', while we change the rules for people who have had a longer period of time to find a job but who have not succeeded, even in the economic boom. I find that difficult to argue on the grounds of justice. It is therefore a question of feasibility and justice. That is why I said last week in the Lower House that I am not in favour of adjusting the WW requirements and referee requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u20	I understand the Minister's answers, including the answers he gave in the Lower House. The aim of this emergency legislation is to ensure that people who have a job keep that job as much as possible. Extreme, just and social measures are being taken for this, with a great deal of budgetary impact. These are people who, I admit, have been in the WW for a long time and who, despite all their efforts, do not yet have a job, but who now know that they are getting help very quickly. That's a completely different arrangement from the WW. In the Lower House the question was asked by SP and GroenLinks, and now I am asking this question, also supported by Mr Kox, for example: what would be against doing so at least for a limited period of time? My colleague Van Brenk wanted it for a longer period, namely as long as the crisis lasts. I thought, let's limit it to three months. What's against that? People who have jobs can keep that. But for people who are out of work and who are close to the welfare system, that is what needs to be done. I understand that the budget is EUR 450 million for those three months. That's a lot of money, but in proportion to what's going on right now, that's to be seen. My question to the Minister is, after all, whether he wishes to pay attention to this and whether he can explain in detail at least in a letter to us what the legal and implementing problems are. You can even say that if you're in the WW and go to welfare, with retroactive effect you'd get that three months of WW. Then it's probably complicated, too, but where there's a will, there's a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u21	It is a layered question from Mr Van Rooijen. I'm also giving you a layered answer. The first layer is: the duration of the WW benefit in the Netherlands is, of course, dependent on your work history. Three months is the basis, but most people have built up a longer WW right because of a longer work history. If you would just raise it at the foot for three months that's your proposal... what do you do with the rest of the building? You're gonna extend that, too? Or aren't you gonna extend it? How righteous is that? That's one. Two, we don't have this system for nothing. Based on the work history, you have a wage-related benefit, because people who become unemployed have to be taken care of. The rent has to be paid. The groceries have to be paid for. That's why we have a pay-related benefit. But at the same time it is also the reality that with the WW we have an instrument with a soft landing, allowing you to find a new job, depending on your work history. The second point is feasibility. This is all automated. Through the systems of the UWV it is all linked to the payroll declaration chain. It's all embedded in ICT solutions. You saw last week that the figures from the UWV show that the number of WW applications has increased significantly. That's even doubled in a few weeks. This will continue in the coming weeks, because especially the people in the flexible skin, the temporary workers, are now the first to report to the UWV, because they are no longer called up and no longer have a job. So they rely on the WW insurance. As I have just said, a rough analysis shows that about 68%, almost 70% of the workers who are now out of work, have acquired WW rights, because they have been employed by their last employer for more than six months. Then you see that there is a tremendous pressure on the UWV, on the current systems. That's a careful process. The WW benefit assessment is not just about the question: how much did you work? There is a whole process in advance about rights and obligations, including of the employer. That's quite an intensive process. Just saying that we are adjusting the referee requirements sounds very easy, but it is not in practice. It also leads to all sorts of questions, including what you do afterwards and when you turn them on again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u22	I thank the Minister for the answer. As for the first part, three months to go. The intention is also to apply a three-month extension for people arriving at the end of the period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u23	But then I come to my first comment. People who have been in the WW for a long time, three years and two months, and who are now walking out of it, so to speak, have been in an environment where unemployment has been the lowest since we measured it. How fair is it, then, to say that we are extending the duration of the WW for a while? I think that's almost a philosophical question. We have agreed a social security system with rules in place. Then you'd suddenly make different rules for that. I find this fundamentally different from, for example, the NOW scheme, which aims at keeping in service and paying for people who were employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u24	The third, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u25	Let's leave that point alone. Then there is the second point. I understand the technical problems of implementation, but can the Minister explain them again in a letter, including the legal technical side of the matter? I feel like where there's a will, there could be a way. I don't have to explain to the Minister that if you go from the WW to the assistance, that's a completely different arrangement. Let us not go into it in more detail, but then the power aspect will be discussed. Small abilities you have to eat. Those people have applied for a long time, but they're hoping for a new job. The economy would normally have stayed good, even if you never know. Those people now find themselves in a different situation in this time of crisis, where they do not receive assistance if they also have a bit of power. It's gonna have to be eaten. That was the background to my feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u26	In itself, I understand that. In fact, with your party colleague Van Brenk, I held a debate on the IOW. We have also extended it, especially for people aged 60 and three months, and older, so people for whom the chances of returning to the labour market are really low. For that we already have a safety net, from this point of view. But the others do not, also because of the thought that people have to go back to work, perhaps in a sector other than where they used to work. That's the regular system in our social security system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u27	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u28	Finally. My final comment concerns what Mr Kox said. As a democrat, I am happy to support that. He said that we should be pleased that Parliament, the Second and the First Chamber, will also continue to deal with laws and supplementary budgets, even though we are in a crisis. That's a nice feeling, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u29	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following on from the Minister's last words, it is very good to talk today about the measures that have been taken. Of course, these measures were necessary in the context of public health, but they do have economic consequences, and they cannot simply be classified under the normal entrepreneurial risk. That legitimizes the package. This is really aimed at preserving businesses and jobs. A number of questions have been asked about the Tozo, the scheme that self-supports entrepreneurs in their income. In addition to the point of contact of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the scheme focuses on the fixed charges and, in addition to the NOW scheme, on the payment of labour costs. For this scheme, too, we have looked at how we can make meters very quickly, even if it is a new target group when you look at our social security system. In doing so, we have been able to use a scheme that is already in the ground paint, the Bbz, the assistance for the self-employed. For the sake of feasibility, we have disabled a number of things that do apply when you ask for assistance as an entrepreneur, also because we have considered that this is not just a regular entrepreneurial risk. Thus, for example, the cost-sharing standard, the partner test and the power test have been disabled. So is the test of viability. I understand very well that Mr Van Rooijen asks: is there a specific situation for people in the AOW age? 'Cause they could have a company, too. That's right. For the sake of feasibility, we have used the target group definition of the GDP for this scheme. Those are the people up to the age of AOW. What is, of course, always important and always remains is that people should ultimately be able to fall back on a scheme which at least guarantees them the minimum social level. If someone has a full AOW benefit, you can't get below that social minimum, even though I realize it isn't a big deal. This also applies if an income falls as a result of the corona crisis. If you have incomplete AOW and I understand Mr Van Rooijen very well, then you should also apply for supplementary income. Then indeed the power test applies. I am also referring here to the argument of feasibility, in which we have said that we cannot suspend this power test. But I was very sensitive to the words of Mr Van Rooijen's colleague in the Lower House, Mrs Van Brenk, who said: will the Secretary of State at least look at the possibility of using the capital component of the Tozo? I promised, and I'm investigating that right now. I will inform the House of Representatives as soon as possible. I will stay with the Tozo for a while, because Mr Otten had asked a question about it, a question that was taken from my heart. I, too, have received signals from entrepreneurs who say that it is going to be very difficult for me, even though it should be so easy. We have said that registration with the Chamber of Commerce and a statement are sufficient. I can very well imagine that municipalities that have already started work on the basis of the first information have indeed taken advantage of the old instruments of the Bbz and therefore asked for more than was necessary. But now the AMvB has been published in the Official Journal and the VNG and Divosa have made an appeal to municipalities. I wholeheartedly support that call, namely that they stick to the questioning procedure as it is. Once again, this scheme is also intended to provide income support. Again today we send information to municipalities to ask strongly: do not ask for more information than is necessary for these independent entrepreneurs. By the way, many municipalities have started to make advances. So everything is aimed at giving people that support as soon as possible. Mr Kox had a question about the food banks. That is a subject that is very close to my heart. It was also discussed in the debate with the House of Representatives. There I have indicated, both to Mr Van Kent, who had tabled an amendment to increase the amount, and to Mr Bruins and Mrs Palland, who had tabled a motion, that I, when it comes to the food banks, have worked according to the adage: if it cannot be done as it should be done, then it must be done as it can. Together with Mr van Landbouw, by the way. I agree with Mr Kox that the food banks are an excellent social initiative, which is very valuable, but that they can operate in the same way as they operate, because they are not bound by government regulations. At the same time, a few weeks ago, they did sound the alarm clock, because they saw that people's influx was increasing enormously, while distribution was getting in trouble. Then we formed an action team, consisting of Food Banks Netherlands, the municipalities and ministries of LNV and SZW, in order to be able to act with a time span of hours or days where necessary. And so we ask municipalities, when a food bank reports to Foodbanks Netherlands and gets into trouble, to see where a solution can be offered. If that fails, the gateway to the action team can eventually be continued via Food Banks Netherlands. $4 million has been made available as a backstop. At the same time, the food bank is developing a lot of initiative and a lot of people are also very involved in the food bank, which has resulted in a lot of donations. At the moment, we do not have the picture of the 4 million being exhausted. I also hope that this will not happen, but I said in the House of Representatives that I will also keep my finger on the pulse. And just like we initially set up that action team and put together with LNV an amount of 4 million, so I will not hesitate to sit down with them again if this proves not to be sufficient. That is what I said in the House of Representatives, and I very much like to repeat it here. And let me take this opportunity to compliment all the people who work at a food bank, because they really make the difference in people's lives. Mr President, those were the answers to the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u31	I thank the Secretary of State. Our questions were mainly about people with incomplete AOW, which are therefore below the social minimum. People would have a business. That is now stationary, so people are falling below the social minimum. Our question remains whether adequate measures can be taken to ensure that these people are at least given the social minimum. I was aware of the Secretary of State's undertaking, but the question I repeat was that in the first period too, it was also possible for these entrepreneurs to have access to the part of the special assistance provided by the Tozo, or temporarily to have access to the AIO on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u32	The AIO and the special assistance are subject to the capital criteria. At the Tozo, because of its feasibility, we have abandoned a number of criteria, but we do not do so in the regular arrangements. I'll enforce those power criteria. However, I think it is really important that people should know that this means that they cannot fall below that social minimum. However, they do have a power test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u33	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp. No, he doesn't have time. I shall then give the floor to Mr Sent, no, to Mrs Sent, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u34	That's my male side addressed by the chairman. I would like to thank both directors very much for their detailed and pleasant answers to our questions. First of all, I drew attention to the conditions under which the measures are made available. We have been promised by the Minister that the Chamber will be informed in good time. I'm glad. As far as we are concerned, it is in the spirit of the measures that companies that make maximum efforts to pay as little tax as possible should not be eligible for these measures. It also seems to us that it is a condition for the use of the measures, that a commitment is made to pay full tax in the future. We are still waiting for the Minister to report on this, and we welcome the commitment. As regards the motion on flex workers, it is stated in the Acts of the House of Representatives that the Minister referred to 'abdominal pain'. In this room, he's talking about "headache." I hope that means progress. That is why I wish him a great deal of wisdom in order to find a creative and feasible solution. I sincerely hope that will succeed, and I have no hesitation in his commitment to this. I come to the issue of foreign capital and equity, the foreign tax treatment and the strange incentives contained in it. I welcome the commitment to redirect our request to the Secretary of State for Finance. We will look forward to his policy response with great interest. Finally, I have asked for attention to be paid to monitoring. The Minister has indicated that a copy will be sent to our Chamber at the end of April. I welcome that commitment. We will judge that with great interest. I would like to conclude with the wish that the two leaders can continue to use a great deal of wisdom in particular. And I wish them good health, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. I might be able to give the Minister another tip on the conditions for the possible future. In Denmark there is a ban for this year and next year on dividend payments and the purchase of own shares. I think that's a very sensible idea. I have two motions. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Kox and Mr Van Gurp proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis is now and in the foreseeable future a drastic reduction in the chances of getting a job;]] [[Considering that many people whose duration of WW is now or within a few months are very likely to be out of work or income or are receiving assistance, thus increasing their distance from the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the duration of the WW for a further three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35430-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to do everything it can to minimise the damage caused by corona to activity, (self-employed) entrepreneurship, and people's work and income;]] [[Whereas an AOW entitled self-employed person who, as a result of the corona crisis, falls below the social minimum, may still benefit from the limited special assistance component, as well as from the loan part of the Tozo scheme;]] [[Whereas income supplementing to the social minimum for AOW beneficiaries through the AIO is subject to a capital limit of €6,225 (single), €12,450 (pair), respectively, and that as a result many AOW entitled self-employed entrepreneurs are not at all eligible for income supplement to the social minimum;]] [[calls on the Government of AOW entitled self-employed persons to have access to the special assistance part of the Tozo scheme, or to grant temporary access to the AIO on equal terms;]] [[calls on the Government to grant independent AOW entrepreneurs access to the loan part of the Tozo scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35430-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Courtesy. One of the essential professions that we recognise at the moment is the job of a cleaner. I don't know if it was in the hiring procedure for the Chamberkeeper that you had to be a cleaner at the time, but thank you! I asked one specific question. I told you, the government of the coalition agreement is not my government, for understandable reasons. But I consider this government, the government of fighting the crisis, as much as I can, as our government. I think that the Secretary of State's statement on the food bank is spacious enough to say: we think we can get out with 4 million, but we can't get out, then we'll figure it out. Then that won't be a problem. If I understood that correctly, I'd be happy to settle for that. Of course, we thank the two rulers for their response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u39	Thank you. Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the second term of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't written the motions yet, but I have listened carefully, so I can make a judgment. In any case, thank you for the kind words and for the recommendation to try to remain healthy and wise. I quit smoking. People who have seen me smoke know how serious that was. So I'm doing my best. Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Two motions have been tabled. Mr Van Rooijen's first one deals with the duration of WW. We have had an interrupting debate on this subject, where arguments have been exchanged. Last week, too, I rejected the motion, and I would like to do so again, referring to the little debate on the interruption that we have just had. The second motion is actually a motion for the Secretary of State. But because of the speed, I'm gonna do it myself. Part of the motion, which deals with the loan section, is already being examined in the context of Mrs Van Brenk's question in the House of Representatives. The first part, about the application of the Tozo to people who have an AIO, is incredibly complicated in the execution. That is why we must discourage that motion, because of that argument. That's it, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Minister. Then I'll look in the direction of the Secretary of State. Does she still want to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-5.u42	Then I'm gonna come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote directly on the bill today at the end of this sitting. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled, or at least at the next sitting.
