ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks for her question on anti-Semitic incidents in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Madam President. At the end of last year, we were here too, following figures from the European Agency for Fundamental Rights. They showed that there is growing anti-Semitism, growing hatred and intolerance in Europe. We also saw that a lot of people who are victims of anti-Semitism do not go to the police because they think that doesn't matter. The question is, what has changed? No sooner did the CIDI record as many anti-Semitic incidents in the Netherlands as in 2019: 182 cases of swearing, threats and physical violence with an anti-Semitic motive. It's an increase of 35%. It is the highest number in the 30 years that these figures have been kept. Each incident has a major impact on the victims themselves, but also on the community as a whole. We are celebrating 75 years of freedom this year, but that freedom is being violated if you have to be afraid, afraid that the windows of your restaurant will be smashed in, afraid that you can't be yourself, afraid that you can't wear a yarmulke in freedom. I know that the Minister for Justice and Security is also concerned about anti-Semitism. I know he'll be at The Dockworker's next week when we commemorate the February strike. But what has his efforts done over the past year? He promised that he would make more work of the willingness to report and the sense of security. For that he would consult with the Jewish community as well. Has this willingness to report increased and has that sense of security increased? If not, what is needed? Mr. Chairman. Of the 2018 police figures, we know that of the 3,300 recorded facts of discrimination, 8% were anti-Semitism. What about 2019? What has been done with the recommendations to register much more precisely whether anti-Semitism and the context in which it takes place? Is that what's happening now? What's the clearance rate? Were any of the unsubs really punished? Finally. What are the trends in and approaches to online anti-Semiticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. We are always alarmed by the fact that anti-Semitism is not a phenomenon of the past, even in this year of remembrance, in which we recently commemorated the three-quarters of a century of liberation from Auschwitz. Jewish graves have recently been violated in Dordrecht. During the game Ajax-PSV on February 2, there were anti-Semitic choirs again. People I'm attracted to much more.....doesn't feel safe to show their Jewish identity. I would remind you that last year we stood here on the Square together as cabinet members and MPs. I think we should do that again this year. Because anti-Semitism is horrible. Unfortunately, the CIDI figures confirm that there seems to be a trend towards an increase in anti-Semitism incidents. I am still processing figures on the declarations and notifications for 2019, because one of the most important things I think is that people can get rid of their complaints. The cabinet has a broad approach in the National Action Programme against discrimination against all forms of discrimination, but I consider the initiative of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Segers to be important. They presented an own-initiative paper on anti-Semitism last spring. As a cabinet, we have set up an investment of EUR 3.5 million to do some extras in this approach. That is a programme aimed at increasing resilience, but also raising awareness and, as I clearly say, capacity building in order to be able to tackle it properly where it is happening. Mr. Chairman. Not many people know that, but I visit a synagogue regularly in a different capacity, from minister of worship. I find it sad that I feel that I am there as Minister of Justice and Security, but that is obviously necessary. I speak out against anti-Semitism in public and the media and I call on you to do the same. Anti-Semitism curses on us. We need to engage in the conversation, engage in the hard conversation with the people who apparently still think they need to lower themselves to these kinds of expressions. I will also discuss this next week at the commemoration of the February strike. We must speak out against anti-Semitism, but we must also act together against it. I say to your Chamber that I will soon come up with what the current figures look like and that in that context, like last year, I intend to go round the table with CIDI and other parties, because we need to make this very small.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	I see the Minister's doing something, and I know it. That is why I am asking not so much for his commitment, but above all for what it has changed, for example in the willingness to report to the police. I note that we are still getting those figures. The minister says he wants us to express ourselves. I think that's important, too. We have also asked the cabinet to express itself and, for example, to address other Heads of Government on anti-Semitic statements. The cabinet wasn't for that at first. The Chamber has adopted the motion for a resolution. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what has been done with this. It is important not only to express ourselves here, because it is, of course, a global problem. So I'd like some clarification on that. I would also like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to put this high on the agenda at a forthcoming JHA Council, because I really think that this should be a Europe-wide approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	I raised it at the JHA Council last year. That was a discussion in which the German Minister of Justice also clearly underlined the importance of combating anti-Semitism and in which we really indicated that we should make this a priority with each other, because... I don't have to explain. But I'd like to mention a few things. Of these 3.5 million euros, we are also going to invest money in visiting school classes. One of my concerns is that there are signals coming, as you know as a Chamber of Commerce, that school classes are sometimes empty, that students deny the Holocaust. I do not think that we can start explaining to children early enough what happened and why we as a society are inclusive for everyone. I will also come back shortly to the Asscher motion about not having any contact with organizations that deny the Holocaust. That was a motion which was tabled in another debate, but which I drew to me. Because it has to be very clear. I am standing here not only to express my own feelings, but also to say that if these measures do not prove to be enough, if, for example, the willingness to report is still low, if those figures are to come very soon, then I think that much more needs to be done than we are doing now. At least this year's 75-year anniversary is something we should take note of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	I note that one question has not been answered. It is about the motion that the cabinet asks to take a stand in foreign gremia and, for example, to address Orbán very clearly on his statements. More statements have been made by Heads of Government. It is very good to take a stand here, but it is also important to address colleagues in office. My question is whether this has happened. The cabinet was hesitant about that motion. It's quite widely accepted by the Chamber. So I'd like a little more explanation about that, too. I would also like to get a little more into the promises that have been made about talking to the Jewish community about increasing the willingness to report. What have been the results of that? What measures were subsequently implemented by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have just announced that I will come back to the willingness to report and whether this conversation has led to more declarations and notifications. That's one. Two. I myself had a rather rough conversation with my Hungarian colleague last year, because I was calculated in Budapest on the days when the posters of Juncker and Soros were hanging there. When I say it was a rough conversation, you understand that it didn't fit in with ordinary diplomatic relations. In fact, I addressed him squarely to the fact that I didn't find it possible to do what was suggested with those posters. Where that makes sense, I appeal to colleagues in a European or other context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	A 35% increase in cases of anti-Semitism is absolutely unacceptable. Racism and anti-Semitism must be eradicated by root and branch. But at least as bad is what I read here in this article: "Many Jews do not report incidents, because they feel that the police are not doing anything with them. That feeling is also based on the incomprehension they often experience at the police station." How is the Minister going to combat this phenomenon and how is he going to ensure that every report and every report is taken seriously by the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	For some time now, there has been a Jewish police consultation, which is actually aimed at making the average officer more connected with anti-Semitism and what it does to people. So that's what it's all about. I've made contact with that myself twice before. The first time to see how that worked out as a result of the attack in December 2017 at the Jewish restaurant HaCarmel and then at the Albert Cuyp there was a serious stabbing incident with anti-Semitic motives. The police are really working to create more knowledge and understanding among cops on this very point. Not only about how you can see anti-Semitism and how it manifests itself, because sometimes it is a bit covered up, but also to show why it is something that is touching a very sensitive string in the Jewish community.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u11	D666 is also deeply concerned about these appalling figures. It's been like this for a while. Anyone who reads the report of the Fundamental Rights Agency of the European Union will see that this has been coming to light for some time now, in particular that anti-Semitic incidents are not reported or are not reported sufficiently and that the police are doing far too little about it. For some time now there has also been a motion, the Bergkamp motion, which calls for more investment in this area, to invest more in policemen and specialist detectives, to train more and to gain more knowledge. How does the Minister ensure that confidence returns to the police that she actually takes the report seriously and the whole follow-up to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u12	That is precisely because of the Jewish police network that I just mentioned, but it also happens because in the approach we are now setting out, much more is explained, not only what could be covered anti-Semitism, but also why such a very sensitive string is being hit, which of course has to do with the terrible past of the Holocaust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u13	It's almost making me sick. We are talking about anti-Semitism here for about ten minutes in this Chamber, and no one, really nobody, has mentioned the greatest cause of anti-Semitism: that is, of course, Islam and Islamization. Neither GroenLinks, nor the SP, nor D66, nor this minister of the CDA, the party responsible for the Netherlands being Islamized, that we currently have 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands, where Islam is synonymous with Jew hatred. So I ask the Minister: if you are honest, you acknowledge that Islam may not be the main cause of anti-Semitism, but it is the most important cause of anti-Semitism. You must stop your open border policy and stuffing the country with even more Muslims. 'Cause you're gonna make sure anti-Semitism grows and the Jews screaming out of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u14	The most disgusting regime I know of was the Nazi regime. The Nazi regime was a regime based on Aryans, a regime based on the rule of law, let us be very clear about it, which originated in Germany and Austria and where none, as far as I know so far, was connected to Islam. I was raised to think that that was the most horrible anti-Semitic regime we have ever experienced. That doesn't change the fact that I think my anti-Semitism policy should be directed at the person who does it, regardless of his religious background or what kind of crap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u15	What an incredibly cowardly and weak story of this minister. Again he simply denies that Judaism is intrinsic to Islam. In the Koran, Mr. Secretary, it says that Jews are monkeys and swine, that they are evil, that they cannot be trusted, that they are liars, that they are unfair. Your comparison with that terrible fascism: yes, indeed, in the Qur'an there is 10% anti-Semitism, and that is much more than in Mein Kampf. So the Qur'an is full of Jew hatred. I ask you once again to admit honestly that there is a link between the mass immigration of people from Islamic countries and anti-Semitism here, and that the solution to anti-Semitism must therefore also be sought in the de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands. If you don't, you're selling politically correct shit talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u16	I don't sell politically correct shit. I never do, and I don't now, and certainly not on a terrible subject like anti-Semitism. I've just said that I don't give a damn what anyone's excuse or reason is to be anti-Semitic. I fight it and I call on everyone to do it to me. Let me give you an example. They were communists who got up and organized the February strike. Communism is a movement which has become extremely low in our society if it is still there, but we can only respect the fact that the communists have risen against it. Anyone who does the opposite, we deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u17	That sounds very good, but I did some browsing back in the Acts. I came across a report from Question Time on 19 June 2012. The member Van Klaveren asked questions about the message "More registered anti-Semitic insults." It was like that was yesterday's message. That member asked the ruler about this: what is being done? And what did the then Secretary of State say? "Let it be clear that the cabinet's efforts continue unabated. We have conversations with them and we have conversations with them and we're going to end it." I now hear the Minister say that he is waiting for the promising approach in the proposal from Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, the colleague next to me, and Segers, for which a sum of 3 million is available. My question is this. This is almost eight years ago. What is the cabinet going to do to prevent us from getting the headline "anti-Semitic expressions increased again" in the newspaper next year following the CIDI monitor? Extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think it's a misunderstanding, because I thought I explained it correctly. The initiative of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Segers has been taken over by the cabinet, and that is a whole programme that has already been launched. I also said that I would certainly like to check with your Chamber later on whether the measures I announced last year to increase the willingness to report are actually starting to be effective. You will not hear me say what a previous ruler has said and what Mr Bishop has just paraphrased or quoted, namely that we are going to make sure that it is not there at all, or that kind of text. Because anti-Semitism, no matter how terrible, is clearly something that is sometimes stirred up by some people. What we absolutely must avoid is that others follow this bad example. People who remain in that wrong attitude must be dealt with. I see it as my most important task to make it really very clear to young people that this curses our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u19	The Jewish community in the Netherlands is really very small. It won't fill the ArenA. And yet we see that they are disproportionately often victims of discrimination. These are not isolated incidents; Jewish Dutch tell us that this is part of their daily lives. I know that the Minister is very concerned about this issue and about the Jewish community, and is very concerned about it. I would also like to thank him for mentioning the proposal by Mr Segers of the Christian Union and myself. We will be discussing this shortly. I would now like to highlight one aspect of the CIDI report. The report discusses that, among other things, the number of anti-Israeli demonstrations and the so-called BDS demonstrations, which preached a boycott towards Israel, has increased enormously. Now the freedom of demonstration is a very good thing, I really must say that we all want to defend it. At the same time, we want it not to be abused by people to commit criminal acts or to make anti-Semitic statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u20	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u21	And my question to the Minister is: can he pay particular attention to this, to see how we can ensure that people can demonstrate for what they want to demonstrate, without that right being abused for this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u22	I would, however, like to assure you that I will address this point in the next National Security and Police Consultation. There the regional mayors are represented, and especially the G4 mayors, to see how we can take even more effective action here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u23	Previously, we have also talked about extra criminalising hate crimes. Mr Segers and I have been in contact with the Ministry on this matter before. I know from the Ministry that there's a lot of doubt. My question to the Minister is: what does the Minister think, does he think it makes sense to extra criminalize hate crimes and take care of them, precisely because this affects not only the victim, but an entire community, and therefore it has an extra great effect to punish them with an extra great punishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u24	At my ministry, we're already working on two additional criminal charges. One is to include it in the law as a sanctioning circumstance if there are discriminatory motives for committing violence. The second is to take into account aggravated circumstances in case of insult if it ultimately induces others to engage in violence or threat. A third point is the question of hate speech. We are also discussing this in the European Union, with the group of seven Justice Ministers from the six founding countries plus Spain. I would like to say to your Chamber that I will return to that if, above all, there is a clearer picture from that group of seven. For I believe that we in the European Union should take this up as much as possible in the same way and take it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u25	Anti-Semitism is, of course, terrible. I can hardly imagine that you would feel constantly attacked here, just because of who you are and what you believe. Legislation is good, prevention is important, but then lick is at least as important. Where my concern is then, whether it's speaking choirs, demonstrations or individual expressions, is that a lot of people feel so untouchable to express themselves and behave as they do, because they know that it takes a very long time before this kind of hate speech actually leads to persecution or an approach. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u26	I think here is the problem that people often hide in the group. With the repressive side, it is often difficult to tackle. That is more so when you take up the business in the context of online anti-Semitism. We have also launched an online approach to anti-Semitism in the context of these additional funds, in which we are indeed investing in capacity building with the police. In addition, between 6,000 and 8,000 students in vmbo up to and including vwo we have a pilot to identify anti-Semitism on the internet, and to indicate what to do with it. That is, of course, the point: it must be almost hurried, if you are to be able to successfully apply repression to this. That is a point of attention. When we come back to those reports on how things went last year, I will also reflect on this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's not just about catching you red-handed. But I heard the Minister cite examples of a number of incidents, for example from Amsterdam: the Albert Cuypmarkt, restaurant HaCarmel. Of this, the Minister says that these are anti-Semitic incidents, while we know that the police and the judiciary and the judge judge that in a different way. Now we very much want the national coordinator who is about to pay attention to this, but I would also like to give this to the Minister in the discussions he is having, to see how we can ensure that the terrible things that are happening are actually seen as what they are. And if a Jewish restaurant is attacked for the third time and it is said in Amsterdam within 24 hours that it was not an anti-Semitic incident, what are we still talking about? So I would very much like to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think I can stand up for the Amsterdam police, who certainly responded adequately in that incident. Maybe things didn't go well at some point in the talk, but that too has been learned. That is why there are also contacts with the Jewish Police Network. What I want to say in response to this question is that the National Expertise Centre for Discrimination has now been structurally extended to include two full-time jobs. We are now looking at ways to streamline reports of anti-Semitic incidents there. I think we need to bet more on that sort of thing. And we all need to speak out loud in public against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
