ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 35179, the Implementation Act registration eventually stakeholders of companies and other legal entities. We now come to the second term from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for replying in the first term. A question from me from the first term has remained. I would like to have a clear answer to that. The registration of UBOs is independent of a 25% interest. This means that these are actual, actual stakeholders. At the time when the organizations would not do so, or for example appoint a stromand or someone else, or not appoint a real UBO, there is a violation of the law. I think that is a very important addition and clarification. I had asked whether that meant that there should simply be firm information about this. Can the Minister promise that this will happen and that we will not have some kind of well-naïve debate about 25%? My main point was what is really about the balance between protecting privacy and achieving the objective of this bill, namely transparency and maximum public clarity about who the stakeholders are. This should be based on preventive action that prevents shady constructions from taking place. The Minister says that we have made a balanced choice. I'll fight that. I am also afraid that this time the Netherlands will end up in the wrong corner of the European Union with maximum restrictive implementation of this directive. We then get that image that we consider the protection of shareholders more important than the fight against, for example, money laundering or terrorist financing. The journalists, the civil society organisations will not be stopped, they will continue to pierce, they will simply do their research and hopefully make the wrongs public. But the combination of not being allowed to look for individuals on the one hand, and on the other hand paying fees, for example, however small they may be, simply means that there are thresholds. All these thresholds put together can make the work of that group of people difficult. Does the Minister agree with me? Is he willing to engage with a collective of investigative journalists such as Follow the Money, or with organisations like Transparency International on how to increase the effectiveness of this law? In fact, we all want the same thing, namely the difficulty of money laundering and other forms of abuse of the financial system, and the fight against terrorism. In this context, a question of mine has not been answered. That question was when and under what conditions the data of the applicants are shared with investigative authorities. Only the fact that you have submitted a research question should not lead you to become an object of an investigation. My final point. There has been a lot of discussion about the situation of church societies. Violence against anyone, mosques, synagogues, churches, people with a different color or whatever, is not acceptable. The rule of law must act against this by all means possible. It has to be done. However, this legislative proposal has another objective. In this context, it is more important that everyone is treated equally. I welcome the Minister's commitment that a generic exclusion of any organisation will not take place and that, in the context of the discussion with the churches, I assume all the churches, including mosques, are also being spoken to other organisations where such signals come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. The D66 Group considers the concerns raised by my two (for name) colleagues about the registration of the stakeholders of religious organisations to be very understandable. However, since there are other organisations which may object on the same grounds, the Minister's commitment, in response to Mrs Karimi's speech, is very valuable. We believe that monitoring and reporting help to understand the effects of this law. I really only have one question to ask about the Chamber of Commerce. I haven't gotten an answer yet. It concerns the possibilities available to the Chamber of Commerce in the case of incorrect completion of data. How does the Chamber of Commerce deal with the lack of proper data? Maybe there will be a report, and how will enforcement be done? I would like more clarity on this. We are in favour of this proposal, especially with the Minister's commitment to monitoring, but we are still waiting for the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the messenger for keeping the cathedral clean. I thank the Minister for his answers to our questions. Today we have again taken a significant step, we believe, in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. My group is pleased that the Netherlands is finally entering the left-hand line of countries that are also taking this fight seriously and putting it forward proactively. It is also a good thing that we in Europe have adopted a common approach. The importance of unravelling these financial networks around criminal money launderers is in fact hard to overestimate. We don't want them hiding behind all kinds of shady constructions and shielding their identity. The question remains, however, how great is the preventive deterrent effect of what is, in essence, an administrative register. My group had a bit of a frightened suspicion that this would not really allow financially-sharp criminals to get out of the field. The evaluation will have to demonstrate the effectiveness of the new UBO register and I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to share the evaluation conclusions at European level and vice versa. Can he go with this? Then the position of the churches in this bill. My group continues to have difficulty with the proportionality and impact of the directive on this point. Churches have no negative history when it comes to money laundering and terrorist financing. But the amendment that oversees the churches came from the case of the Lower House and not from that of the Minister. However, we must avoid throwing away the baby with the bathwater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u8	Has Mr Ester ever heard of the Banco Ambrosiano, the Vatican Bank? Bankers of the Holy See were found dead in London, suspended from bridges for funding the Mafia. If I hear you say 'churches have not had any involvement in money laundering', it would be contrary to the truth and I would advise you to follow the international financial press a little more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u9	I can reassure you. I'm doing it very meticulously. The example you give is one example. I am talking about an institutionalized history of the churches on this section. That goes wider than this example, no matter how horrible it is. I'd like to admit that. I am concerned with the observation also made in the explanatory memorandum, and several people have asked for it, namely that the Minister himself does not come out entirely in order to give a detailed overview of abuses by churches. That might have something to do with the conclusion I just shared with you, Mr. Otten. The Christian Union Group welcomes the Minister's sensitivity in this regard. He cannot, of course, undo the amendment, but within the limits of the directives, he has explicitly looked into the interests of churches and their directors in the debate. This is certainly true in the case of our Jewish community and their historically justified fear of registration and violation of their privacy and security. We understand their pain and we understand their fears. The Christian Union Group has, as I have correctly counted, noted two important commitments made by the Minister to our address. The Minister will come into contact with the Interkerkelijk Contact in Public Affairs, the CIO, in which, as I said, more than 30 church societies are affiliated, in order to make concrete agreements together on a design of the UBO register that does justice to the ecclesiastical concerns surrounding the privacy violations of church leaders, including when it comes to monitoring and evaluating the impact of the register on our churches and church administrators. And to make concrete arrangements in case of security threats and the related options of security of church administrators. Our Jewish community is once again firmly in sight. The Minister also undertook to enter into consultations with his colleague JenV and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you for these important commitments for my group. By the way, I'd like to hear if my summary is correct. The Minister understands that this is an issue for the Christian Union Group and we asked him for some urgency about this consultation. We would also like to ask him to inform the Chamber about the outcome of the talks with the Council of Churches, JenV and the Public Prosecutor. I assume he's willing to do that, and I'd like to hear that. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Ultimately, this bill is about balancing the legitimate fight against money laundering and terrorist financing with the equally legitimate concerns of church leaders about their privacy and security and, where necessary, their security. My group is now going to take stock of this balance sheet itself as a way of accommodating our vote next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to the Minister for the way in which we responded and the debate we had with each other in the first term. Let me start by correcting something. In an interruption I cited an example of a Protestant church, my own church, but I made it very clear that this is not proportionate to what the Jewish community is to undergo today. The only thing I wanted to argue with it is that at any time, or at any time, a church society can become the object of hatred, violence and attacks, and that drivers can run disproportionate risks or otherwise be exposed to undesirable behavior such as intimidation, harassment and blackmail if they are required to register. Those are not just my words, that is the harsh conclusion reached by the Council of State in the additional information requested by this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I have this particularly in relation to the communities of faith that are already facing great risks. From the Minister's reply, I have noted that there are apparently problems, described by the Minister as'worries'. Unfortunately, however, the bill does not make it possible to adopt generic measures, but only measures at individual level. That has not been made very concrete so far. In addition to the police foreclosure lists and the possibility of bringing you to the D.A.'s office, I haven't heard in detail what other measures the Minister can take to protect the drivers I've been talking about. I appreciate his commitment to talk to the CIO Mr Ester here too, and perhaps other entities. In itself this is fine, but what can come out of it is still thin ice. Thin ice at these temperatures is bad soup. Mr. Chairman. The Minister owes me two more answers. First, I asked if the Minister would consider a novelle consisting of one word that should be added to the law. There was no direct answer, so I assume this is not a route that the Minister wants to take at the moment. Secondly, I still have a reply from the Minister to my question as to whether the Transparency Act for civil society organisations, which is currently before the Council of State for advice, is the appropriate platform to address the real problem that was the aim of the Van der Linde amendment. If not, does the Minister see any other legislative proposals coming? If so, what does this mean for the future? Could it be that between now and 18 months a legislative proposal is being adopted that really tackles the problem? If so, can the Minister encourage the directors of religious communities to wait for registration, because the Minister wants to correct the looming error of the current law? Mr. Chairman. Some colleagues have mentioned all kinds of other groups, sometimes threatened groups. I understand that on the one hand, but on the other hand it was not the groups who suddenly got into a special situation because of this bill. The way in which the Minister responded to those other groups, of course, had my approval, but that is without prejudice to my duty to defend the group that is part of this legislative proposal today. That is not an influence of churches, it has nothing to do with the Provincial States of South Holland, but it is simply the normal political handiwork to which every party in this Chamber has the democratic right. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the concerns I have are not taken away. As I indicated in the first term, my group does not want to take responsibility for the risks posed by this law. However, the second deadline is still running, so who knows what will happen next? In any case, my party supports any improvement in the substance of the concerns when these are achieved through government commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I would like to give the floor to Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to the Minister and his officials for the transparent way in which they respond. I thought it was an interesting and lively debate. When I think back, I'll keep reminding myself of a few statements. Firstly, the Minister said that this bill will at best help a bit; the criminal sector will adapt. Mr Otten said that 90% to 99% of the people involved will never have anything to do with money laundering and terrorist financing. If you take that together, you may have some understanding for my group's position, namely that we are reluctant to accept this whole UBO bill. It is often the case with European legislation in this area: it sometimes gets a bit out of hand. We would have preferred it if the rule had been that in certain circumstances you could be in a protected situation, whereas that is now the exception. Now you put a lot of people who will never have to deal with the purpose of this bill, public "to see" with their entire wealth situation. Of course, I recognise that it has been very useful that everything has come to light with the Panama Papers, but a cynic will say: it has come to light without the UBO legislation. Now that UBO legislation is in place, much more sophisticated ways will be taken to keep matters out of the mind of the Tax Administration. I'm also comparing it to the tax secret. We must cherish this extraordinary. There are countries that think much easier about this, but here privacy is extremely important. In history you see that lifting tax secrecy is the first thing dictatorships do. After all, we want to have control over the citizens. Fortunately, that is not the issue here, but it is. We have also seen it in the treatment of the Tax Plan, with those anti-abuse directives. They're freaking out. It is said that there is improper use of taxes. Then we come up with legislation which does not take into account the possibility of double taxation at all. That's not proportional. That being said, we're still looking at what we can do. What can the government do within the scope of the government? I should like to thank the Minister for the commitments made in the area where we were concerned, namely the implementation of Article 30 (9). I say to Mr Karimi that we have focused on the position of the churches, but that Article 30 (9) is much wider. It also really looks at the concerns people have in a threatening situation. That the churches have shared their concerns with politics: I expect no different. These concerns are real and they should also be brought forward here. If we deal with a tax plan, business will also come up with concerns. That is just part of the democratic process. The commitments have already been mentioned by my namesakes. Monitoring is important, the consultation with the representatives of the church societies, the consultation with the Justice Department, to see how certain things work out: we think this is very important. We look forward to reporting, the evaluation, over the next 18 months. There is one point on which I would like to ask the Minister some comfort. That's about the example I gave in the event of interruption. It's actually a very simple example. It looks at the situation in which someone wants to become a member of the board of a church society. It does not need to be explained that, in some cases, it takes real courage, especially if you know that membership is published because of this regulation, and that this can really lead to aggression. The person who is about to do this has not yet experienced any concrete threats, but there are indications that other directors have received those threats. I would like to ask the Minister to address this example in consultation with the judiciary, the churches and all the others involved. Even if there has been no concrete threat to the person concerned, there may be a foreseeable threat. So not "something could happen." No: if you look at the specific situation of that church society and that administration, there may be a foreseeable threat. You should take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u14	Can the CDA honourable Member imagine that anyone who has followed this debate this afternoon can get the impression that Christian faith in the Netherlands is under considerable pressure, that people are unsafe and that the rule of law is not able to protect them? That image is actually being created here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u15	I can't talk about the imaging. We're talking about church societies. Those aren't necessarily Christian church societies. That's all the church societies. I have just said that, as far as I am concerned, any group that threatens to get into trouble or be discriminated against should be involved. I don't think so at all. I've heard the sentiment before that we're not going to make exceptions, and certainly not for church societies. It's not for nothing. That is why the Council of State has also asked how this law relates to existing laws that protect the privacy of church administrators, such as the Anbi Regulations and the Trade Register Act. Now this law is coming from Europe. How does that relate to each other? So it's not like we're suddenly really worried about the church societies. That concern was already there and the legislator took it to heart. But now the Council of State says: this is European regulation and this overrulet other European regulation, such as the GDPR. I actually found that disappointing and I think it goes far, but I accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u16	Would you agree with me that the Council of State is talking about a situation that can take place? It can be that leaders of churches experience violence, intimidation or blackmail. The question naturally focused on that group. So it can. If the question had been formulated differently, the answer could have been: yes, it could have been. The same is true of many other groups and organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u17	I totally get that, but we have to follow the history of law. The government has begun to create a special position for church societies, by not making them subject to registration. That is the starting point. That means that the government believed that there was that possibility. The Directive gave the possibility to make that exception. This was discussed in the literature. Why do you do that? The government has chosen to do so. In view of the fact that we felt that there were very real concerns among the church societies, that was our point of departure to address this point. Other points were not included in the directive, and you could really ask whether the government had the discretion to do so. We finally got out through the Council of State information on Article 30 (9). As a result, you cannot make a generic exception, but you have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. What I specifically ask the Minister to do is to offer us comfort that despite the fact that it is not a generic assessment, he nevertheless looks at the special position of members of church societies in this case, but no doubt also of other directors of vulnerable organisations. The point is that if there is a threat that is not yet concrete but is foreseeable, it will be taken into account. Again, someone who takes such a position has nerve. It has courage and it deserves the protection of the government in order to continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u18	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u19	Mr. Chairman. It seemed as if I had entered into a discussion about the secrecy of church administrators rather than a debate about the UBO Act. This debate, which also took much longer than I had anticipated, has shown one thing very clearly: that the special interest group churches have an extremely significant political influence. It's even bigger than I thought. That is why we are so straight-sighted in this respect not to allow all kinds of exceptions for this group or that group. As I said, 99% of the people who have to fill out all these bureaucratic forms are not waiting for that either. They also have risks, and apparently none of that is relevant. So we're all gonna do the same thing. There aren't all exceptions for one or the other. That is what I am getting at and then I talk from my gut, because that is what they do at the churches, too, is that the people who defend the churches in this discussion actually radiate something of: different standards apply to us; we are actually superior to the other people who have to deal with this problem; it does not apply to us, because we do not do that. Of course, you can't do that, because everyone thinks they're better than anyone else. So we have to use "equal monks, equal hoods." Furthermore, we are in principle in favour of the proposal, but in one condition. We want the Minister's undertaking that the Van der Linde motion adopted by the House of Representatives will be implemented. If not, we will retable that motion here in the First Chamber in similar form and then put it to the vote. This can also be done at a later stage, as I noticed in the Wajong debate. But perhaps we can get a promise from the Minister that he will implement that motion, which is clearly stated, with due regard, of course, for freedom of religion, which is the intention. If the Minister can undertake to do so, we can refrain from doing so and we do not need to table this motion and vote on it. This is what I wanted to say, Mr President. But I see that Mr Schalk is reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u20	Thank you. It is customary to file motions in the second term. Then you can do so in a third term, but the Chamber must give you that third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u21	I would like to forget that, just like Mr Van Pareren did recently in the debate on the Wajong. He forgot to file his motion and then he could still file it after the suspension. I'll file the motion as soon as I have it. The motion is similar to the Van der Linde motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u22	Mr Van Pareren then tabled the motion at the end of the second term. You can do the same now, if you like, because we are now in the second term. So if you want to file her now, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u23	I don't have the motion in writing right now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u24	It can also be done in a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u25	That can be done in a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u26	Then you need to get that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u27	If we get a promise from the Minister, we won't have to. But then we can also file the motion under one condition, as with the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u28	I would just like to correct you on the point that you always get a third term. The Chamber must give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u29	We must not, of course, leave Mr Otten in great concern at the end of this debate. The amendment tabled by Mr Van der Linde in the House of Representatives is now part of the law, as Mr Otten might read if he took up the law. In other words, he does not have to be afraid that the Minister will not implement the Van der Linde amendment, because it is part of the law. Hopefully that concern is gone. That also saves us a third term. Okay, here's the thing. Mr Otten has just suggested that there has been some sort of discussion about the churches here this afternoon. They should all have special exceptions, nothing would ever go wrong, and similar comments. I'm throwing all that far from me. It wasn't about that today. It was about the fact that there were leaders of church societies, Mr. Essers said that sometimes they must have guts, which sometimes have to deal with a great threat on a daily basis. Anti-Semitism and such have been mentioned. In particular for those cases, however, this may also have an appeal to other churches.The concern has been expressed that this will suddenly be very open and that the people by name, against the rules of the GDPR and the like, will be traceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u30	Mr. Schalk, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u31	My question is whether Mr Otten would like to correct that he may have made a wrong suggestion. We are concerned with the purpose, namely those threatened drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u32	I too, of course, am very opposed to threatening drivers. I personally get everything thrown to my head, whether online or not. So I'm totally familiar with that. But that does not mean that we must all make exceptions in the application of the law. The people who threaten others must be dealt with. They can then be detained for longer, because we tightened the provisional release this morning. You have to deal with the problem at the source. This is a sample of symptom control that doesn't solve the problem. So we, too, want there to be no threats. That's gotta end. Those people also need to be tracked down much harder. I myself get all kinds of threats from all kinds of angles; they are not always done with them. So I understand Mr Schalk's frustration on this point, but then we have to get the Ministers Graperhaus and Dekker back here and then we are going to talk about the persecution policy of these types of people. That is my answer to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u33	That seems to me to be something for another debate. In my opinion, we are now going to repeat ourselves a little bit. Mr Schalk has a very brief final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u34	Not a question, but a reassurance to Mr Otten: I have no frustration whatsoever. I think it is absolutely wrong for Mr Otten to be threatened by anyone. That applies to him, and that applies to Mr Wilders, who was talking about this afternoon, but that also applies to the church leaders we were talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u35	Thank you. I'm gonna wrap it up now. Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? No. Two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u36	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u37	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also for the last remarks and questions made by the members of the Chamber in the second term. Perhaps first to reassure Mrs Karimi: there is still information coming from the Chamber of Commerce about what organisations must comply with, how to do so, and what sanctions there are on wrong declarations. I think many of her concerns are still addressed with that. The second thing I want to say to her is that it is certainly the case that I am open to involving investigative journalists in the effectiveness, for example. In fact, this is suitable for an evaluation, but it is more often possible to request input from users in between. Then I'm straight to her third question, because it was about how you're holding your finger on the wrist right now and whether the costs you're making aren't going to be prohibitive. I think I gave a reassuring answer to that in the first place, but what I should perhaps have mentioned right away is that there is also a so-called 'user council'. That is perhaps the best proof that the country is almost finished here too. So we have the UBO, but we also have a user council in which we will see how it works. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Van der Voort. I thank him for his comments and his input. He asked how the KvK will maintain and what the instruments are. In the case of new registrations, the UBO is a condition for issuing a CVK number. If you do not register or do not register in good time, you will receive a warning first. If this warning does not lead to results, the Office for Economic Enforcement of the Tax Administration will be in sight. If the latter does not lead to actions, you come in the vein of an administrative or even criminal fine. We hope to avoid this, of course. Mr Ester wanted to make sure that I had actually made the commitments I had made, which is of course almost too good to be true. He raised another question because he asked me if I was prepared to say that I would continue to inform him of the commitments. I'll tell him. Mr. Chairman. Mr Essers felt that I was a little sparing in the assessment of the bill when I said that I was hoping, and, by the way, expected, that it would help a little. I really think it's a sensible bill. You can always discuss whether you would have written it exactly as you did if it had not come from Europe, but at the same time I think there are really good elements in it. I wanted to be more careful, because I think we should just be very realistic about the fight we have to fight with organised crime in the field of money laundering. Even much larger interventions than the intervention that is now on the table will only have a limited and often temporary effect. This really is a holistic, long-term approach with a criminal side, with an administrative side, with an investigative side and so on. Hence my caution. I'd rather be positively surprised by the contribution of the UBO than give it up very high, as if this were going to be the big game changer, because of course it isn't. We need to be realistic about that. I would like to say a few things to Mr Essers about the planned threat. I think that we have solved that a long way in the first term, but perhaps in abundance. How do these shields work practically? I was just referring to the police and the justice department. It is up to them to assess whether there is a foreseeable threat, whether there is an acute threat or a potential threat. That is, unfortunately, something that the police, of course, have much more often at hand. Think of endangered persons, too. Think of people who are temporarily in a dangerous situation because they provide information from the criminal environment. Think also of threatened politicians who are then protected. It is terrible that that happens; fortunately, in most cases that kind of protection is temporary. But that foreseen threat is typically something that, in jargon, "services" have to go about. They must therefore assess whether it is still appropriate and, after the expiry of time, re-assess whether it is appropriate. As I said, I will monitor the process around the shielding very carefully. I'd like to repeat that. And I say to Mr Essers and also to Mr Ester that I will report on these talks to the Chamber. But I have the dark brown suspicion that the appreciation of these talks will end up in the Chamber by other means, if I have listened to the first term. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk was, of course, right in his own right: I did not give a direct answer to his question on the novelle. Rhetorically he did it handsomely, because he said: it's really only about one word. But we can all remember words, I am thinking of the word "not" which completely alter the impact of a sentence. So maybe it wasn't completely innocent after all. And I must disappoint him: we must continue with this law. I see his struggle. I hope, of course, that he can agree with the things I cannot do, but also with the things I can do and with the guarantees we can add, also in the interests of the larger subject we have here. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question from Mr Schalk. Mr Schalk mentioned the Transparency Act for civil society organisations. With his permission, I would really like to go through with this law. To what extent a law currently before the Council of State can solve these problems... I would like to come back to the question of how it can deal with some of the problems we discussed today afterwards. But let us take advantage of that once that law is not only back from the Council of State, but has also been adopted in both Chambers of the States-General. Then maybe it could still be involved. But to press the pause button here in anticipation of that law, I think I am asking a lot. That doesn't mean that I've been wondering for the whole second term what exactly is in that law. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten resolved an exchange of views on motions and amendments with Mr Schalk. So I didn't have to use that at all. I was going to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u38	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u39	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-12.u40	This brings us to the end of the agenda.
