ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-eerstekamer-4.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Jan Pastoor, who died on 10 December last at the age of 84. He was a member of the First Chamber of the States-General for the CDA for eight years, from 8 June 1999 to 12 June 2007. Jan Jacobus Lambertus Pastor was born on 3 April 1935 in Ruinerwold. He started elementary school in his hometown. After World War II, he continued his education at primary school in Wanneperveen, where his father became mayor in 1946. At the Public Lyceum in Meppel, Jan Pastoor obtained his gymnasium a-diploma in 1954. He then studied Dutch law, in particular public law, at the University of Groningen. After his military service he joined the municipality of Wassenaar as an official in the secretary. Eight years later, the mayor's son himself became mayor in the municipality of Workum. He remained there for eight years and was acting mayor of the neighboring municipality of Hindeloopen twice for that period. Next, Jan Pastoor was again eight years mayor of Smilde. As mayor, he had to try to bring together the torn community after the Moluccan hostage operation at the primary school in Bovensmilde in 1977. He later called it a "very complex job." From 1987 to 1999, Jan Pastoor was a member of the Deputy State of Drenthe. He was in charge of administrative matters, public health, elderly policy, housing and energy. In that position he was responsible, among other things, for the municipal reclassification, which he carried out at once for the entire province. In 1998, Drenthe moved from 34 to 12 municipalities. In addition to his work as director, Jan Pastoor was a civil servant from 1971 to 1992. When the civil servants' courts were integrated into the courts, he was a judge-alternate in three courts. Jan Pastoor became active in Wassenaar for the CHU, the Christian-Historical Union, as secretary of the election association Wassenaar of the party. After moving to Friesland he was treasurer of the CHU-Kamerring Friesland. When the CHU entered the CDA, he held the same position for the CDA-West Friesland. He was also chairman of the CDA-Bestuurdersvereniging, first of Drenthe and from 1991 to 1997 of the National Boardersvereniging. When Jan Pastoor became a member of the First Chamber for the CDA in 1999, he also received administrative topics in his portfolio. He conducted his maiden speech on 6 July 1999 in the process of examining the draft law Merging the municipalities of Hoevelaken and Nijkerk. Municipal reclassifications became his specialty. He also dealt with legislation relating to the police system, disaster response, camera surveillance and integrity policy. Also housing and spatial planning from his administrative knowledge and experience had his interest and attention. In a interview with RTV Drenthe in 2008, Jan Pastoor said that the first parliamentary membership had been the most beautiful in his political-administrative career. I quote: "You have been thrown all at yourself and must judge everything yourself. You also work in a group where there is a great camaraderie and an extraordinary friendship. I enjoyed it." By the way, this is a translation from the Drents, because that's what he liked to say when the opportunity appeared. I don't. On 13 June 1999, Jan Pastor was appointed Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In addition to his political and social career, he was active as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, chairman of the Sint Antonius Hospital in Sneek, member of the Honorary Council of the Royal Netherlands Hunters Association and board member of the De Savornin Lohman Foundation, the scientific bureau of the Christian-Historical Union. Jan Pastor was known as a careful and precise director, averse to political games. He was convinced that the government must be reliable. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-eerstekamer-4.u2	I now give you all the opportunity to express my condolences to Mr Pastor's family in the Hall.
