ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u1	We have another meeting with both rulers, I believe, or with Minister Slob alone? In any case, it is the report on written consultations. Mr Kwint has the floor first on behalf of the Socialist Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes there are things that you think are so obvious that you don't have to record them in a motion, and then you find out that it isn't. So you have to write a motion about something that everyone actually thinks: hasn't it been a long time? I will no longer keep you in suspense and tell you what it is about: the simple fact that a teacher is present in the classroom where he teaches. You'd think: that's not so crazy, that's pretty obvious. When the law was written, this was also self-evident, but in the meantime we see a huge increase in companies that want to come up with all kinds of "smart solutions" for the shortage of teachers. They offer skypeles and want to serve multiple classes in one go. We believe that this does not do justice to the profession of teacher, where you have to be able to look over someone's shoulder and in which you also have to be able to intervene when something happens in the classroom. Education is an important part of knowledge transfer, but it is not just a transfer of knowledge. So that's why I didn't think I'd ever have to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the judgment of the Supreme Court, the bodily presence of a teacher in the classroom has no legal basis;]] [[Whereas this is highly undesirable given the didactic and pedagogical role of a teacher, who cannot be sufficiently expressed through a computer screen;]] [[Considers that by allowing this to happen, especially at the time of a growing shortage of teachers, the problems in education could become even more serious;]] [[calls on the Government to legally anchor that primary and secondary education is given by a qualified lecturer who is physically present during the lesson,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Beertema and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-500]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u4	Thank you for your input, too. I now give the floor to Mr Heerema of the VVD. No? He's gonna give it up. Mrs Westerveld from GroenLinks has the floor. That gives me the opportunity to thank the Minister for OCW for her input in the previous debates. Only Mr Slob will speak in this debate. Mrs Westerveld, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u5	Mr. Chairman. I was very much in agreement with Mr Kwint's speech that a teacher should of course be present in the classroom. I can imagine that there will be an exception for situations. I have also drawn attention to this earlier, for example, where one of the students is in a hospital or is sick at home and cannot go to school. For example, you can connect to the class via a video screen. I'm very much in favour of that kind of teaching. So you can make sure that children who can't go to school can join the class, and that they don't get behind, because they hear what the teacher says and can participate. In his letter, the Minister also commented on this. However, I would like to ask the Minister how he can guarantee that the scope now offered by the law, for example to teach through a video screen, will not be abused at a time when there is a shortage of teachers. Can the Minister give a guarantee on this, or can the Minister not give a guarantee on that? That's actually my simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u6	That raises another question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u7	The challenge is to pour this into the form of a question. Let me say to Mrs Westerveld that the motion states quite explicitly that it concerns the presence of the teacher in the classroom. Of course, there are very nice applications that can help when children are at home when they are ill. Does she agree with me that the physical presence of a teacher in the classroom is anything other than that of a student in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u8	Yeah, I totally agree. The presence of a teacher in the classroom is very important when it comes to being able to transfer the lesson material properly. At the same time, I would like to make sure that such a motion closes all the doors. For children who cannot go to school, there must be the possibility that they can follow their lessons via a video screen. That is actually the only reservation I have in relation to the motion tabled by Mr Kwint and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u9	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Meenen has the floor. He also waives a term. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. He doesn't have both motions yet. Oh, yeah, that's right. There's only one motion, and he already has one. Then the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u10	Mr. Chairman. It has been some time since we have indeed discussed this issue in detail. Then we continued the discussion in writing. I think Mrs Westerveld is right to point out the point that will ultimately affect my judgement on this motion. That is that there are situations in the country where the use of digital tools is just what I call it. If that were to go away, it would cause problems. This has nothing to do with the shortage of teachers, but with the fact that there are indeed sometimes children who cannot be in class because of illness. They can be involved in this way. I know that Mr Kwint is not referring to that. He has already indicated this in our consultations. We are also dealing with situations of shrinkage. I mentioned mathematics D, for example, in the written consultation, because that is the example that emerges. It is simply impossible to have the teacher who teaches mathematics D physically present in a classroom. But this is an opportunity for students to continue to follow that course, because it is sometimes a very limited number of students. We have made it very clear that the rule is that the classroom course and group lessons are in principle given by a qualified teacher. That's what we see in practice. If we deviate from that, we have indicated that three things need to be very clearly regulated. That is also being monitored. It must be deliberately planned under the responsibility of the competent authority. That's one. The second is that the activity is carried out under the teaching and teaching responsibility of a teacher or other person charged with doing so under the law. The fact that no one would be present in the classroom is therefore not the issue. It is only a question of the teacher who gives the course not being present, but of a different way of addressing the students. The third point, which is not insignificant, is that the participation council must have agreed to it. This cannot just be applied, like: that seems to us a nice solution. We keep these criteria strictly in place. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 500 because of the situations where this simply has a real added value and it would lead to an impoverishment if it did not happen. I don't want to take that on my behalf, but this motion does require me to do so. I therefore advise against this motion, but I clearly state that there are very concrete and clear guidelines for how this can be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u11	That is indeed what the Minister's motion calls for. The welfare court has clearly stated that there is no legal basis for the teacher's presence in the classroom. We can see that there are indeed companies that currently advertise in schools, specifically aimed at the shortage of teachers, to arrange a tailor-made solution, i.e. a teacher with a webcam and then teach at a distance. I do not have to name all the names of the minister, because he sees this coming along. It may well be that in such a case an educational assistant is present in that classroom. But it is also part of the teacher's didactic and pedagogical task of being present in that classroom to look over the shoulder of a student to see how it eventually comes to a linguistic error, a math error or something like that? You can't just outsource that to an educational assistant, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u12	If we have to put everything that is being folded and what is being brought to the attention of schools with "come to us, we have something to offer" into legal rules because we do not want it, we have our hands full with it. I do not think Mr Kwint means that either. I have indicated to you that this may be in place in specific circumstances and that it may be appropriate. I have also indicated to you that it is not just the fact that someone else must be present in the classroom and that they must also have the authority to do so. In the school, the co-determination council, of which the teachers, the pupils and the parents are part, must agree. So one can't just go ice over one night. If, at the end of the day, it is said to be appropriate in one's own situation, then I do not want to take away that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u13	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u14	The Minister now says: we cannot lay down everything that is fliered in the law. I agree with him in general terms. But this is such an essential part of the education process... Let me put it this way: doesn't the Minister also think that the only reason this isn't in the law was simply that when that law was written no one could suspect that it could ever become an issue at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u15	It is true, of course, that there will be new techniques in the course of time, which also ask us new questions. But here the question is really justified: do we trust the schools and those involved in these schools, such as teachers, parents, pupils, in the responsibility they have to approve them or not in specific circumstances? They can say: we do not want to do that and we are not going to do that. Then the question is whether we should ban everything from above. In practice, there may be circumstances where you want to offer space for a specific part in a particular situation, for example because two children want to follow mathematics D and you don't want to take it away from them. Otherwise, they might go to another school, or they couldn't do it in a shrinking area at all. So I don't want to make it impossible. That's why I'm deposing this motion. But I would like to stress once again: the rule is, of course, a competent teacher in the classroom. That's what we're aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u16	Thank you very much. The verdict on the motion is clear: it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-29.u17	We are going to vote on it next Tuesday, 4 February. We have also come to the end of the examination of the report on written consultation Implementation of motions in relation to experiments. Finally, the last written report we are going to do before dinner break, on the support of very easily learning or (high) gifted children in education. Oh, I hear we got another one for it. Sorry, I'm wrong. I thought I was... Yeah, this VSO is about the experiments. I was going too fast.
