ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD for his question on tackling abuse within sects. The question is addressed to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's every parent's nightmare: your child comes into the hands of an elusive cult, it's brainwashed there and you don't know what to do as a parent. We've heard testimonials from the week around here about what that could do to someone. Can the Minister comment on the consequences of abolishing Sect signal on 1 January? How does the Minister keep an eye on the number of reports from, for example, Victim Aid Netherlands? How many reports have been made? Then there's the next question. In sects there may be abuses or even criminal offences under the guise of freedom of religion. Can the Minister confirm that freedom of religion never implies freedom to commit criminal offences? Can he address the concerns of the police, of Peter Withag, who has expressed his concern through the NOS today that there might be sexual abuse in two sects in the Netherlands at the moment? Does the Minister recognize these signals? Does the Minister recognise these concerns that are being expressed? How does this relate to abolishing Sect Signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that wrongdoings occur in the Netherlands. Fortunately very limited, as the WODC report from 2013. This has also been confirmed by the figures of Sektesignal over the period 2014 to 2019. The Dutch instruments of criminal law and care offer sufficient opportunities to act appropriately in relation to the abuses and to provide support. According to the researchers of the aforementioned Scientific Research and Documentation Centre WODC, all this leads to the conclusion that abuses within sects do not endanger the legal order or public health. Then there's the first question. Signals are picked up by the police and other agencies, such as the Tax Administration, the Education Inspectorate or the SZW Inspection. They meet, among other things, within the ten Regional Information and Expertise Centres, where much of that information leads to a good common image. Victims can report directly to those agencies or call in psychological assistance and support. I want to make it clear that offences are criminal offences and will be qualified as such. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Finally. On the occasion of the 2018 budget, it was agreed with your Chamber that the grant of Sectesignal would end on 1 January 2020. Following a motion by Mr Van Nispen of the SP, it was decided at that time to give the hotline another ending grant in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thanks to the Minister. He does not comment on the number of reports that would have been made now, since the abolition of Sect signal. It is important, however, that we keep an eye on this problem. So I'd like to hear another answer on that point. And how does the Minister look at the concern expressed that there might be two sects in the East of the Netherlands at the moment where child abuse is currently alleged? These are very worrying reports. That is still too weak: these are horrible messages. If an experienced detective, whom I have already mentioned by name, sends that signal, then I think we should do something with that as well. So I would like another answer from the Minister on that point. And couldn't he go into Fokko Oldenhuis' plea one more time? I think he's a professor, but at least he's an academic. Fokko Oldenhuis has said: you should actually look at the Equal Treatment Committee, and you should give it the power and space to intervene in sects as well. What's wrong with keeping that option under review one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	The last annual report, from 2018, shows that in 2018 the number of calls was 209. In 81 cases, there was a miscarriage that could have been followed up as a criminal offence. Furthermore, I am aware that the detective in question is working on two cases. I also said at the beginning of my reply: this is unfortunately also happening in the Netherlands. But I have also explained, in accordance with the questions, how the instruments work at that point. I have taken note of Professor Oldenhuis' suggestion with interest. To be honest, however, this still needs some clarification. At the moment I do not see any reason to go into this suggestion with a detailed study.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	I think there are a lot of concerns in the Chamber about it. Are we keeping enough visibility and grip on these kinds of movements? I really hope to receive further information from the Minister at a later stage on the follow-up to the signals that have now been given on possible two sects in the East of the Netherlands where there would be child abuse. I really think that we owe it to everyone, but above all to those parents and those children, to get to the bottom of this. And when I hear the minister like that, he's going to. But I think it's important, now that Sect signal's gone, that we keep an eye on this. How does this phenomenon develop? And do we have sufficient instruments? Let us continue to follow that very critically in practice. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	Child abuse is an absolute spearhead for me. I'm sure your room is aware of that. I'm referring to child abuse offline, but also online. I have spoken to your Chamber about this before, and we share the concern that this only expands. In my opinion, this is mainly a result of all the online possibilities that exist today, and of something like the darkweb, a kind of internet where underground, with all codes, all kinds of prohibited activities are stimulated. That is absolutely my priority. I have also discussed this very clearly not only here in the Netherlands with the police, but also in a European context. It's still my priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. Mr Van Nispen has a question on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	For years, since 2012, we had a well-functioning hotline: Sect signal. That worked out well. There, victims of these sects and family members could go for help, advice and referral. It was the spider in the web between all those different organizations and agencies. For years, since 2016, the Minister has been trying to cut that hotline down. For years, a majority of the House has been able to stop this from happening. And finally, after four years, the Minister has his way. Only then did the minister manage to cut down on Sect signal. Congratulations on that. A very modest amount on the state budget, leaving victims and their families in the cold. Why did Sect signal have to be cut down? How does the Minister ensure that this spin-in-the-web function does not end up between all those different bodies and organisations that the minister just mentioned, without that particular expertise regarding sects, so that this function remains guaranteed to help victims and their family members?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	I really have to confess that I am not exactly aware of what my ministers, for whom I am of course responsible, intended to do about this in 2016. I cannot say that it has so far proved to me that these are intentions as Mr Van Nispen suggests here. However, in 2018 we discussed this in detail in the Chamber on the occasion of my budget. I am very much in favour of this because it was my maiden budget debate, in so far as that word exists in Dutch. I notice that that word causes a lot of excitement, so I would like to translate that: the first time I defended a budget. That was in November 2018. We really thought about this in detail at that time. It is true that a majority of the House said that we should not continue with this. I must admit that Mr Van Nispen himself is very concerned about this kind of problem; we know this from each other. He insisted on continuing the grant for some time to come. There's been a motion on that. The grant ended on 1 January 2020. If, on the occasion of the next budget, the Chamber would think otherwise, we could always have that conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	There was another question from Mr Van Nispen: how is it ensured that such a hotline disappears or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	No, the question was about the spider in the web. I referred to this Regional Information and Expertise Centres, which bring together information from services that used to be not so easy or that didn't bring it together. This is, of course, one of the developments of recent years in the fight against crime. That's what I said. I repeat: it really leads to a good common image.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	On a point of order, Mr President. The Minister does not properly reflect parliamentary history here. I can forgive the Minister, but I would like him to correct that in a letter to the Chamber. From when...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	No. That is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	Okay. But then we get that letter from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	No. That was not a point of order. Anyway, I am going to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	There's a pattern. I think that the Minister and the Chamber agree on one thing, namely that abuse in all forms is horrific. Yet we hear every time of abuse victims and professionals that they are nowhere to go or that they are on waiting lists. Think of the Centres Sexual Violence, the diagnostic center for sexual abuse in Groningen, which is closed, and of Sect signal. I would actually like to ask the Minister to identify where the bottlenecks for victim aid are, what historical development is and what opportunities there are for strengthening this victim assistance, especially for victims of sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	That is a question that I really must pass on to Mr Dekker, because I am not going after two and a quarter years, or anything more, suddenly... The Chamber knows that I don't have that role for everything about victim support. But I'll pass on that question. I cannot really judge now, apart from parliamentary history, to what extent answers or partial answers may have been given earlier. Last Thursday, in a debate to which Mr Van den Berge also contributed, I indicated that I intend to visit various regions every two months in the context of the proper implementation of everything related to stalking. I really want to keep doing that and chasing it to make sure it gets on track, because I care. That's what I said last week. But I can't say anything about things that are really outside my mandate as minister. I will pass on the request to Mr Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	And then the Chamber will be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	I will ask Dekker if he will send a letter about this in the coming month, which will then contain any references to what has already been shared with your Chamber and otherwise, as far as this has not happened before, reply to Mr Van den Berge's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	For the historiography, four years ago, the cabinet said it was going to stop Sect signaling. Three years in a row, Mr Van Nispen, among others, tabled an amendment. With a lot of jigsaw and scraping, Sect signal was held up. Last year there was no money to distribute at all and so also Sect signal disappeared. But my question is this. For example, isn't the investigation done by the WODC to the Jehovah's Witnesses, where more than 700 reports have been received, just the signal that you need something low-threshold, like a Sect signal, because those communities are so closed that you need a low-threshold line out to get the bottom stone up and give victims a voice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Dekker, also on my behalf, has recently written a letter from my mind to the Chamber. I think you should discuss a possible notification code with him. That's a code that communities have to adhere to in relation to reporting. I'm just sitting in there for a little bit. But I thought the discussion here today focused on whether or not to preserve Sect signal. We made that clear at the end of 2018 that we were going to stop doing so. Moreover, I have not misrepresented history, as has just been suggested. I must simply confess that I also said that I do not know exactly what the cabinet was like before. In 2018 I said that we were going to end it on 1 January. It was said at the time of the motion: keep it in the air for some time. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	This is actually a repetition of an earlier answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you.
