ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the Temporary Law for Groningen (35250). A warm word of welcome to the Minister. You are the prime minister in the new year who stands here for a real debate. I think you can mention that again on your state of mind. There are nine speakers from the Chamber. A few people speak for seven minutes. Another 25 minutes; Mrs Mulder, it may also be shorter. I'm trying to signal something in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Harbers of the VVD Group. He speaks for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. For the inhabitants of the gas mining area in Groningen, three things are important: no further delays in a generous resolution of the damage, the NAM not only remotely, but from the whole process of resolution of damages and ensure that the reinforcement operation is quickly legally secured and, above all, is well underway. Today we are dealing with the Temporary Law Groningen, an important step to legally anchor what has already been taken up in practice, namely to remove the NAM from the process of resolution of damages. First, this was done by transferring the damages settlement to the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen. Upon entry into force of the present law, transfer will take place to the Institute for Mining Damage Groningen. The fact that the NAM is not only put at a distance in practice but also in the law is a good and very necessary thing. The exceptional situation, with a lot of earthquake damage due to the gas extraction in the Groningenveld, justifies this exceptional approach. With the possibility offered by this law, there will be a new administrative route, which will as far as possible relieve residents of their damage, while at the same time remaining a choice to deal with the damage in civil law if they wish. However, experience with the TCMG in recent years has shown how necessary such an administrative route is in order to achieve faster and more credible resolution of damages. The VVD also strongly supports the approach whereby not only the physical damage, but also the total damage, also the intangible, can be compensated by the new institute. At the same time, as far as the VVD is concerned, the creation of that new Institute of Mining Damage should not lead to any further delay. The Minister will therefore have to make every effort to facilitate a smooth transition from TCMG and CVW to the IMG. In addition, it is important for us that the human size is closely monitored and people are not sent from the cabinet to the wall. Moreover, I also support an amendment to this effect, which is important for us to ensure that the principle of generosity is enshrined in the law. In 2019 a practical arrangement was put in place to remove the large reservoir from old damage cases. That arrangement worked well. Therefore, let this approach be the example for the future resolution of claims by the IMG. What does the Minister expect in this respect, for example, from the case manager who will be assigned to residents? To what extent can such a person not only be a sounding board for residents, but also go through internal rowing and windows to achieve speed? The ATR also pointed out in the opinion that this could lead to a potentially less burdensome approach. But to what extent this is actually less burdensome depends on implementation in practice, and so it is. That practice, that's what it's all about. That is why I expect the Minister and the Institute to look at how this can be handled as quickly and pragmaticly as possible. In our written input to the report, we suggested that an advisory body of residents should also be involved in the work. The Minister indicated that this in itself does not need to be regulated, as the framework law already provides for independent administrative bodies. What does the Minister expect from the IMG in this respect? The government's response left a bit in the middle whether contact with civil society organisations and residents will be on an ad hoc basis or be structured. What is the expectation and what is his request to this new institution? Mr. Chairman. The period within which an opinion on damage is delivered shall not exceed 12 to 15 months in the legislative proposal. However, it is intended that advice should be given more quickly in practice, even if the government indicates that, as we all know, the practice has shown itself to be uncomfortable. As a solution, the government indicates that the present law contains less specific rules regarding the performance of the task than the Decision knew mining damage for the TCMG. Thus, such an institution would be more resilient and could act more quickly to shorten the lead time, and of course we very much support that. What is the Minister's expectation on this point? How is this actually going to happen? How could he ensure that that institute would be able to complete the vast majority of the damage within an acceptable period of time, let us say up to six months? In this respect, will the weekly reporting on the number of claims handled be maintained, so that there is a continuous and up-to-date understanding of the results of the IMG? Mr. Chairman. Old damages cannot be re-evaluated by the IMG. I think that is right, because, although not always perfectly regulated, there were re-evaluation options in the old procedure and re-evaluation of a substantial part of those dossiers could hinder the speedy handling of new damages. However, in particular cases, there may be grounds for re-assessing the old injury file in the context of the combination of very serious injury and exceptional process progress on the basis of a new injury report. In the note on the report, the government gives a good idea of a hardness clause, as suggested by the TCMG; a hardness clause as proposed by the amendments proposed by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Mulder. The VVD can wholeheartedly support this, especially since the TCMG has called for it from its practical experience. Mr. Chairman. The legal anchoring of the reinforcement operation has not yet been incorporated into this law. As far as we are concerned, the Minister was right not to wait for the present law to be submitted, because the decision to settle the damages was taken by the public when the negotiations on better regulation of the reinforcement operation were still ongoing. However, I would ask the Minister to speed up the procedure for strengthening the legislative proposal, because at the moment I think there is the greatest bottleneck in the reinforcement. The most important question here is how to ensure that residents are not only taken care of in dealing with their damage, but also in the combination of damage and reinforcement. I think we all know the examples where there is damage now, but it is really best to do the repair of that damage immediately in conjunction with the reinforcement. Then you only have the contractors and the construction workers on the floor once. During the round table, the TCMG indicated: "In fact, we don't feel like waiting for legislation." They're going to handle a number of cases as if it were a one-stop shop. That then works in the back offices two instances, the resident should not notice. I think that's fantastic as a starting point. That is the type of pragmatic approach that everyone is waiting for. I therefore very much agree with the TCMG, which will soon be the IMG. Now the TCMG and the NCG have already signed a covenant which also shows this intention. But the key question is and remains: how does the Minister ensure that this is actually going to happen? That question applies not only to this minister, but also to his counterpart to BZK. And that question certainly applies if the IMG is going to stand at a distance, is an independent administrative body and therefore is going to operate independently in that sense, and we have yet to get the Backup Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. There's a question from Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u5	I think Mr Harbers is right to say that this is not yet the crisis approach that the supervisor considered necessary. Integrating damage and reinforcement would be extremely necessary to prevent social disruption. Actually, I have a simple question. Maybe we can meet each other. Does Mr Harbers also think that there should be a penalty clause when the injured Groningers have to wait too long for damage and reinforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u6	I would perhaps like to go along with that, but the complicated thing is that we cannot see that, because the proposal before us is only about the damage. I think it is a very relevant question, but I really hope that we will get the bill on reinforcement well before the summer. That is, I think, the moment when we need to check whether this damage and the reinforcement are really working together. But I'm already laying down that mission for the minister, as it were. And I don't think we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u7	But at the moment the TCMG is already working with some kind of penalty clause, so we can do that with this law, but it is not in this law. The premium affair has a lot of parallels with the case of the duped Groningers. In the case of this supplementing affair, it is now agreed that the disabled will receive €500 per six months. Would Mr Harbers not want to regulate this in this law on damages, I would ask again through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u8	No, I haven't gotten that far yet. This is not an absolute "no." I have just asked a number of questions and made comments on the law before us, but I am in favour of it, and I would particularly like to speed up and speed up. And the imposition of fines, to be honest, I also think that it is a sort of patchwork at the end. What good would it do a resident if he was eventually paid such compensation? In fact, I would much rather we did not have to go there at all and that it would just be dealt with quickly for once. We have seen a good example over the past year in the form of the reservoir system. I hope that this can become the norm, where we no longer have to go after these institutions, but where the inhabitants are simply met with a vigorous and generous attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u9	I agree with Mr Harbers that no one is waiting for those fines. On the other hand, we also know that it takes a long time. Some people have been waiting for five or six years. The same applies to entrepreneurs. The VVD is for the entrepreneurs, but with those entrepreneurs it doesn't make any sense either. Surely such a fine could be a stick behind the door for a public authority? In addition, you can say: if it lasts longer than six months, then you also have to pay. As far as I'm concerned, it's going to be six months, but maybe we'll even choose for a year. This is how it is regulated in many procedures, including asylum procedures, and you know all about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u10	Sure. But step one is, as far as I am concerned, those 12 to 15 months; I have just indicated that. I imagine there's a case once that's so complicated that it takes you longer, but actually six months should be the norm. That's step one. And for the rest, I think there are possibilities for it, even if you take care of it under administrative law. I'm not against that either. I even wonder if you should specifically regulate it in this law, or that you can also simply invoke the General Administrative Law Act. I therefore also ask the Minister this question through the chairman. I don't entirely disagree with this in itself, but I really doubt you should settle that in this law. Mrs Beckerman's question was really about the combination of damage and reinforcement. I think that's the litmus test if we get that bill later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u11	I find this encouraging in itself. To be honest, I don't really care whether there is a reference to the General Administrative Law Act, a Municipal Law or I know what it's all about technically. Of course, it's just that there's a leverage. And it's very common in government trading that if it takes too long, people will be compensated. That is why I think that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u12	Yeah, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u13	Fine. Thank you. Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. The National Ombudsman said it sharply: the government has become a machine. And as an example, he mentioned the way in which the government dealt with the victims of the Tax Administration's surcharge affair and the way in which the injured people in Groningen dealt with them. That machine has caused a disaster. In the past week I have visited many Groningen-duppers again. Their stories are poignant, and they all look alike. Every time new promises from politics, followed by excuses that it didn't work out. Again new promises from politics, followed by excuses that it didn't work out. That, for years, destroys people. I have one example. The example of Dita Kruzinga. In 1999, she suffered damage for the first time. In 2016 struts were placed. In the following years, she received these four letters from the government, among other things - of course they are file boxes full. In 2016, a letter: the reinforcement of your home will start soon. In 2017, a letter: unfortunately, delay, there are not enough specialists, but we will immediately see how we can prevent that in the future. Another year later, 2018, a letter: your house is at increased risk and therefore you get priority, because your house is unsafe. And then, at the end of 2019, 19 December 2019, more than a year and a half after the promise of priority because of increased risk, a letter: unfortunately, the assessment of your property is not yet ready. Four letters from the government. Twice to give hope that the reinforcements will begin soon. And twice a letter from the same government to destroy that hope. Twenty years after the first damage, still waiting in an unsafe house. The question is of course: can we really imagine what that does to you as a human being? This is not one exceptional example. This is reality for thousands of Groningers. Where here sometimes a kind of reality is created in which it seems as if everything is going better, in the Groninger reality many doomed people do not notice anything of that at all. Last year, the Minister promised that this would be the year of implementation, but had to admit to the same minister at the end of the year that that was an empty promise. The white vans mainly drive away instead of towards the duped. I think 2020 is going to be the year of truth. Are we finally gonna get the fair compensation? Are unsafe homes finally being strengthened massively? Is the parliamentary survey finally starting? 2020 will be the year of truth. After the earthquake at Huizinge, the supervisor, SodM, called on the government to adopt a crisis approach. She rightly stated that in Groningen there is talk of social disruption. I quote: 'In the current progress of damage handling and reinforcement, social disruption as a result of gas extraction in Groningen will continue to increase'. And: "SodM therefore advises EZK to merge the damage handling and reinforcement." But that's not what we're discussing today. No crisis approach, no aggregation of damage and reinforcement. This law still cuts it loose. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to discuss four topics today: the new damages handling, the old damages, legal aspects, and a small block on reinforcement. Those new damages. 2020 will be the year of truth. Is the damage settlement gonna be okay now? A lot of bad guys have been waiting for this for years. Just like the victims of the tax billing affair. Both massive government failure. Menno Snel promised the victims of the surcharge affair that they would receive €500 for every six months that the government has kept them waiting. Will Groningers also receive €500 for every six months they have to wait? Because what is the difference between these two groups? TCMG, the temporary commission, already pays a fine, a small fine when they do too long about assessing damage, but this is not stated in the new law. Does the Minister still want to provide for a fine, a fine when it is the government that keeps those injured waiting too long? For example, can this be €500 for each six months? If not, we shall make a motion for a resolution. Mr. Chairman. It is more than right that the NAM should be removed from the damages settlement. But that does not, of course, mean that the government is going to solve this rapidly. What guarantees are there for the number of experts deployed and their quality? There are already a number of groups that have to wait extremely long: people with complex damage, entrepreneurs, farmers, owners of monuments or characteristic buildings. How do we guarantee that this new law will improve? Many entrepreneurs and farmers are at the door of the water. Now entrepreneurs can claim sales damages at the TCMG, but they still have to go to the NAM for other asset damages. Soon it can also be claimed at the Institute for Mining Damage. But what happens in the meantime? Can this not be dealt with sooner so that the struggle of entrepreneurs and farmers can stop with the NAM? In recent years, Groningers fought unequally against the NAM, i.e. Shell and Exxon, and the State. In spite of everything, this struggle was sometimes also won by Groningers, for example recently in the trial for intangible damage and the trial for the loss of property value. But with the new law, it is not certain that all the injured will also have their right to do so. It is not certain, for example, that when the judge finally declares that compensation for loss of value is insufficient, people who also receive it through the new law. Is the Minister prepared to guarantee this? Mr. Chairman. Then the position of the injured. I told you. In recent years, Groningers fought unequally against the NAM, so Shell and Exxon. But their position vis-à-vis the government is also, of course, uneven. The Minister rightly points this out several times in the law. Therefore, according to the SP, it is essential to ensure that those affected are as strong as possible. That's exactly where the law is failing. On seven points, injured people gain a weaker position vis-à-vis the government or is unclear what their position becomes. 1. The costs of counterexpertise for residents are not reimbursed in advance, at least that is not yet clear. 2. It remains unclear whether residents are entitled to a case counselor. 3. The objection period for the injured has been shortened in the latest version of the law. 4. It is not certain that Stut-en-Steun, the aid service for the disabled, will retain his role. 5. It is not certain whether the Commission will remain in a special situation. 6. The independent counsel will no longer be allowed to comment on how the damages are handled. 7. There will be no council of advice with regional and social parties. Mr. Chairman. Duped Groningers were right not to trust the NAM, Shell and Exxon. Most people don't have that in the state anymore either. I think that's right. It is precisely when the government wants to start restoring confidence that it must ensure that the position of the injured becomes stronger and not weaker. Is the Minister prepared to settle these seven points? If not, we will of course be happy to table a motion in the second term. Currently, through the Damage Protocol, it is part of the Mining Damage Decision...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u15	Sorry, Mr Van der Lee about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u16	Just to make it clear, too. Some of these points concern the current practice of the TCMG, at least as I have read the law. The main thrust of the law is that it is taken over and further developed by an independent body. You want all these points settled and you want to table a motion on that. Then they don't literally get into the law either. I'm just trying to find out what kind of security you want right now. It seems that people are moving in the direction you want. An independent organ must be given room to further develop it. Yet you seem to want to record things again. I think that's quite a difficult dilemma. I would like to know from you how far you want to go in order to record that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u17	I think I understand Mr Van der Lee's struggle. On the one hand, we must limit the influence of this minister or the government as much as possible. On the other hand, we must make the position of the victims as strong as possible. Let me give you the example of the independent counsel. At the moment, the independent counsel can rule on damages and reinforcements. If this law comes through, that independent counselor can only express his opinion on old damages and on reinforcements. That is a very crazy figure, because it is precisely the supervisor who said: integrate damage and reinforcement, ensure a crisis approach. Because if you don't, that social disruption will only get bigger. I would very much like that independent counselor no longer to be needed, that the corrupts all quickly get their rights, that all those promises are true. But until then, I would like to say: make sure that independent counsel remains in that position. And, of course, the National Ombudsman can always express his views on this. That is one of the examples. I think in those other examples you simply have to say that all the support that the injured now have is the lower limit and that they keep it. I would like to discuss with you, for example, a new legal support fund, a genuine legal support fund. That is not something we want to settle by motion, but if you want to go that far, I would like to think with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u18	We'll do that at another time, I think. I would also like to hear the Minister's response. But the conclusion and the certainty of what you are now saying about what will be the space of the independent counsellor is quite frankly not so clear to me to derive from this law. I would like to hear what the Minister has to say about this and then I will wait and see if you will table a motion to that effect. But I don't read it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u19	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u20	Let me look up that piece on the independent counsel. It says, in response to the internet consultation: "The independent counsel is only competent for old damages and reinforcements, not for new damages under this law." So that's pretty clear in there. It is precisely the social parties who are very concerned about this. I think that's right. We would all like it to be superfluous here. That is absolutely not the case at the moment, no matter how much we like to believe that all these promises will come true at some point. Mr. Chairman. At present, the damage protocol annexed to the Mining Damage Decision regulates what is entitled to be harmed. It won't be in the law anymore. The Minister points to the independence of the new institute as an argument for this. But it does not harm independence in any way when we simply say that the current protocol must be the lower limit and when the new institute has all the room to change it when it benefits the injured? Then the old damage. In recent years, a lot of Groningers haven't gotten what they're entitled to. The NAM has paid thousands of Groningers far too little compensation. And now we're finally putting the NAM out of the damage settlement. But that doesn't give people who haven't been compensated enough for what they're entitled to. Finally, a small start was made in compensating for old damages. Through the temporary committee there is a hardness clause which sometimes also compensates for old damages and there would be a window for the people with old damages who had not received enough at the NAM. But from the new law that hardness clause has disappeared and the counter at the province shows, according to the GBB, an empty shell. Only a small group can go there. They have to produce evidence themselves, and the NAM is still judging. That's not a real solution. We would prefer to see all those who were underpaid by the NAM to be compensated. Each time we hear the argument that that would be too much work for too few damage experts, but actually that remains very harsh. Whatever 417 billion can be made as a State, but then can get away with the non-indemnification of all the doomed. We will support the amendments to bring the hardness clause back into the law, but the question is: how will this be implemented? Which groups will this apply to? Will this also apply, for example, to the people from the former outskirts with a Witteveen+Bo report? Mr. Chairman. Some legal aspects. Degraded Groningers have had to fight unfairly and unequally against the NAM, Shell, Exxon and the State in recent years, as I have said before. Several times this law is justified: recognizes that the position of the injured in relation to the State is unequal. In order to ensure that victims are quickly properly compensated, several lawyers and the Council propose that the case-law be given the opportunity not only to refer questions to the Supreme Administrative Court but also to the Supreme Court. Is the Minister prepared to take care of that? Mr. Chairman. Then the position of the NAM. Duplicitous people no longer have to fight the NAM, Shell and Exxon, but what about the government? The NAM cannot appeal against individual decisions, but against the tax imposed on it by the State. What are the chances they're gonna do the same? Why does NAM not have to contribute to the costs of members' remuneration and housing costs? According to the Minister, this would damage the Institute's independence. But the institute is also independent of the government, isn't it? And he'll pay the costs. How logical is it now for the whole of the Netherlands to pay for this, while the NAM is still partly responsible for the damage caused? Pay, not determine, as far as we're concerned. Why does the Institute actually fall under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate? That is precisely the Ministry that has failed so badly in supporting the Groningers, the Ministry that time and time again thought about the economy, but not about the people and our security. Mr. Chairman. Then the position of us as representatives of the people. What about the position of us as representatives of the people and other governments? We're the controlling power, but we can't control anything too often now. Examples. For months now, the Minister has promised to give us insight into the reinforcements. We still don't have a real insight. In the past, we were shown every quarter how much money came to the victims and how much overhead was. And when the percentage that did not reach the victims reached 67%, the information was stopped. How's it going later? Do we get insights per week, per month, quarterly, and through whom? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the reinforcements. 2020 will be the year of truth. We are not having the real discussion today, but it is yet to come. This discussion has been pushed forward again, while the SodM called upon the regulator to adopt a crisis approach after the last earthquake. Damage handling and reinforcement had to be merged, they claimed. Of course, that call wasn't new at all. The United Nations has already hit the Netherlands twice. In 2015 and 2017 the Research Council for Security ruled hard on the role of both the NAM and the State. And in 2017 their call was already clear: make sure that one body is responsible for damage, for reinforcement, but also for intangible damage and loss of value. That's exactly what's not happening now. Today we talk about the damages, the law on strengthening comes later. The concept of that law is once again being judged harshly. The regulator itself reiterates that a crisis approach is not chosen. Acceleration of reinforcements is not in the law. The Gasberaad concludes that the strengthening law ruins Groningen's last chance. Residents don't get the initiative themselves. Thus the restoration of trust is abandoned, they argue. The Groninger Soil Movement is also harsh in its judgment. There are again too many parties involved, which means that there is a high risk of delay. It is deeply sad that we are not talking today about damage recovery and reinforcement. It's deeply sad that the law on reinforcements is so bad. This way, the restoration of trust will never happen. In this way a social disruption can be increased. That cannot and must not become the truth of 2020. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to start with a quote. "I am terribly disturbed by the legal Christmas tree. Everything needs to be boarded up to the last comma, but we just need to get to work. It's about the Groningers. They still don't know when their house will be refurbished. People want to wait, but they want to know when it's their turn. Now they look in a black hole." This is a very recognizable quote. It's from Henk Staghouwer, the nestor of the College of Deputys in Groningen, a very quiet man, a good driver. This from his mouth, last Saturday in the AD, indicates what we've been struggling with for many years. We made mistakes as a society back then. They are also recognized by the cabinet. We outsourced mining activities to a private organisation, gave it all the space and also made it responsible for everything. Undoing that is a pagan job. We've been working on that for a long time. One of the dangers is, therefore, this quote about the legal Christmas tree that it becomes a super-legal discussion, and it has become so. Not only does it seem so, but is it also the case that Groningers are constantly confronted with the fact that they do not come first but the legal basis for this. I see the Minister shaking in section K no, but let me give an example from the explanatory statement. Expertise in the board of this new institute is important, but what is first mentioned? "As far as expertise is concerned, it is important that the Institute has at least a wide range of legal expertise and experience." This is mentioned first, not the knowledge of backgrounds of earthquakes and damage and how you help customer-oriented people. So legal knowledge is primary. I do not want to be faint about it, because I recognise the complexity of the issue. We are legislators or co-legislators and we talk a lot about the legal aspects, but we are constantly confirming the image that the Groningen people, who have been waiting for a long time, are not at the forefront. I do not doubt the intentions of all my colleagues who want to do something about this in their own way. Everyone has their political limitations, whether or not they are in a coalition, but we are far from there. Mr Beckerman has mentioned a number of poignant examples. I think we are taking an important step now. I am truly convinced that the step to deal with public law is inevitable. That should have happened before. This law is necessary. I regret, however, that it only happens halfway and that we cannot talk about the reinforcement at the same time. How do we put it under the institute? Before I ask detailed questions about this law, I would like to ask the Minister anyway, because as a Chamber we do not yet have the final legislative proposal he is going to submit. We have only taken note of a consultation process, of opinions from third parties who are really critical of the main points of his view on this strengthening approach. Does he see room for much more synergy and a one-stop shop approach, so that damage and strengthening are dealt with in one way in the eyes of the injured? We can't deal with the reinforcement law in detail right now, I get that. But can the Minister outline how he sees this? Does he see opportunities in time to increase synergy? That is a question I have at this point. I'm looking at the law itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u23	There is an interruption by Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u24	As D66, we understand very well that reinforcement and damage recovery would preferably be treated together. At the same time, we have heard at the round table that at least this law on recovery should continue to operate because it regulates compensation for intangible, financial and other damage, such as loss of value. Does GroenLinks see with D66 that at least it is a gain that we are now dealing with this law quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u25	Yes, I totally agree with Mr Sienot. As far as I'm concerned, we'd have done that before. I would also like to stress that we have created a temporary situation with the TCMG, but that the TCMG has less room and powers, even when it comes to the type of damage that is being dealt with, than this new institution. For this reason alone, it is very important that we take this step. It would have been better if we could have done so at once, because we could have made a much better assessment of whether the coherence is sufficient and whether there is enough room to achieve more synergy in time. We will only now have to assess that in the second instance. I can also see that it's complex. Both necessary activities have received different trajectories for various reasons. That is not ideal, and they also have different problems. However, I think it is very important for the Minister, in this legal process, to say something about how he looks at bringing reinforcement under this institute, so that we, and not just us, but also all the stakeholders who have already responded to the draft legislative proposals, can take note of it. If I go into the law itself, there are a number of points I would like to consider. Before I do that, I would like to touch on the importance that it is a Zbo and that it is remote from the government. I think this is a very good one. I also welcome the fact that, in response to the consultation of this law, the competence of the Minister has been further restricted on a number of points, in order to emphasise that independence. For me, too, it weighs very heavily that the phasing out of gas extraction has gotten much faster than we thought. That is very important and it is necessary because of the heavy tremors. As a result, I have become less critical of why the Ministry is still involved in the institute and why RVO has to provide officials. The conflict of interest was in his mind that the Ministry was responsible for both the gas extraction and the handling of the consequences and the damage. However, now that gas extraction is being done down so quickly, this conflict of interest is also a lot less. On top of that, if we were to put this back in a third ministry, I saw that sometimes coming to the Justice and Security Committee, it would be very complicated for us Members of Parliament to check all this out. I'm already having trouble getting the reinforcements under the State Department. Imagine this institution hanging under JenV. How are we going to do that? Then you will only get bulkheads... But let me explain why I no longer find it so difficult that this construction has been chosen, that the powers of the minister have been severely restricted and that the powers of the institute are really broad. I also assume that all the space that has been created under the TCMG will be used to the full and will only be looking for more opportunities to help the victims even faster. That is also the intention of the law. That is why I do not need to lay down every detail in the law itself. That brings me to one of the amendments I have tabled. Because it is a Zbo, there is also an evaluation moment in it and I suggest that we at least bring forward the first evaluation, so that we get an evaluation after two years. That's enough time for the institute to work. Then both laws are in force and we are creating a moment for ourselves to reflect for a moment: have we created something that is sufficient to accommodate what is needed? Then, on the basis of this evaluation, we can see whether the law needs to be streamlined to make sure that the institute is even better off. In any case, that is the amendment I have tabled, and I hope to have a positive opinion from the Minister and also from colleagues. Another aspect that has also been mentioned by Mr Harbers is the hardness clause. To what extent does the mandate of this new Zbo, the Institute for Mining Damage, allow us to look at the handling of the previous damages under special circumstances? Often there is a relationship between old and new damages. We talked about that at the hearing. Mr Mulder and I then put the question to the TCMG itself and a lawyer, which would give enough room for the Institute of Mining Damage to deal with this. That is also contained in an amendment. I am pleased that Mr Harbers has supported this. I hope that the Minister will give a positive opinion on this and also on the Chamber as a whole. Then there is another matter. I'm gonna try to get back into that legal world. I'm not a lawyer, by the way. So it's my lay interpretation. There are several facets that I would like to consider. It is good that, because it goes from private to administrative law, there is also an administrative establishment. It is also a good thing that the administrative judge, who is concentrated in one court in North Holland, has the opportunity to refer questions to the administrative department of the Council of State, if I say it all right. The following has been suggested by lawyers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Why don't you just give the board judge some space to make the decision yourself? "Am I going to the Council of State because this really is an administrative question for which it is important to know early, so that I know how to act in all these similar cases?" But if there really is a very specific, important civil law aspect, why is there not also the scope or mandate to submit it to the Supreme Court? I have tabled an amendment to that too, together with Mr Sienot. I understand that some difficulties are expected from a legal point of view. This has more to do with the unity of justice, namely that a situation may arise in which the Council of State comes up with a judgment that clashes with a judgment given by the Supreme Court. That's the fear. I think that we are very deeply in the legal reality. The question is: does that have to be leading? Can't these judges invent that with each other? In my view, this legislative proposal does not, in any way, seem to me to deprive individual citizens of their freedom to choose a civil road. They do not need to use this institute and the administrative solution. They still have the room to be right in civil matters. The NAM also remains liable in that respect. It is therefore possible that the Hoge Raad will again be confronted with questions for a preliminary ruling on this matter, regardless of the fact that the Institute has also submitted administrative matters to the Council of State. In reality, therefore, this problem can continue to arise. Then why is this not just properly regulated by the administrative judge, who will be specialised in these issues because all issues end up in one court, to be able to make that assessment himself? That is a bit the background to that amendment. I'd like to hear from the Minister why this couldn't be done. If it causes problems in the long run, we can always see how we solve it. We don't have to do it all in advance, do we? Because then we're stuck in too much just the legal reality. As far as the content of this bill and the amendments I have tabled are concerned, these are the comments I wanted to make. For the President's accounts, it may be important for me to say that there has been a change in the amendments and that I have to withdraw an amendment. I have tabled an amendment on the hardness clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u26	Is that number 16 you filed with Mr Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u27	No. The amendment in part No. 14 is about the hardness clause. I submitted this together with Mr Agnes Mulder. That means that the amendment to item No. Mrs Mulder (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Mulder on her excellent report. 7, expired. So the amendment that remains is the amendment in part No. 14. That's about the hardness clause. Then there is an amendment dealing with the deadlines for the evaluation. The amendment in part No. 18 replaces the amendment in part No. 11. So the amendment in part No. 11 is off the table with that. The amendment I am withdrawing is that in part No. 12. The amendment tabled by Mr Sienot and myself to point No. 16 is the amendment that has still been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u28	That sounds very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u29	I have every confidence in the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u30	I'm quarteting right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u31	If you think "why does the gentleman tell you all that?', I say: the procedure is that an amendment you have tabled can only be withdrawn orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u32	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u33	That can't be done in advance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u34	You know how this place works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u35	... and that's why I have to say it out loud for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u36	We're back on our feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u37	Yeah? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u38	The Van der Lee amendment (Doc. 12) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u39	Finally, a few words from Mrs Beckerman. Apart from the importance of the law and the need to speed up, it is mainly about information. I hope that this new institution will also realise that it is important not only for the people of Groningen and the victims, but also for the Chamber to be able to follow the way things are going. We give a lot of space to this institute. I also believe that we can expect to be properly informed in return. I also assume that the good steps that have been taken under the TCMG will be continued and extended. I am also open to discussions on whether or not to impose fines. I also interpret it as meaning that the existing agreement can also be continued by this new institution. But if that does not happen and we want to be certain about it, then I am also open to another route to possibly impose it. I would like to try to stop ourselves from getting back into all sorts of smaller areas too soon, or perhaps'smaller' is not the right word to go into very specific areas here in the Chamber to decide how this new institution is going to do its job. In this sense, we must give them the opportunity to fill in and to live up to space and independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u40	Let's talk about the fines. It is good that Mr Van der Lee says that he wants to think about it. Look, that's not a solution. That's never a solution. People just want to get rid of this shit. I just mentioned an example of someone who's been hurting for 20 years. Then a fine is no satisfaction at all. I think we'll be able to agree on that very quickly. The problem is only: if we look back on a gas debate from three or five years ago, it is just a déjà vu. We in the Chamber say every time that it went wrong, but now it's really getting better. And every time that didn't happen. This could be a stick behind the door. I understand your hesitation in taking care of everything, but perhaps for information: it is very common to do it through administrative law. I would also like to give you the parallel with the premium affair. That's where we give all the victims $500 per six months that they're waiting for. This can also make the government move much faster. If Mr Van der Lee agrees with me, I ask through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u41	Sure. I was convinced of that. Administrative law already offers that space and there is already a standing practice. I also expect the institute to take over. The question is whether you want to be sure about that already. The next step is even to fill out specifically what that fine should be. I'm tasting that from your suggestion, because you're pulling the parallel to the supplemental affair. I understand the logic in itself. I understand how you came up with that. But I don't know if it's wise to fill that out so specifically at the moment. So I'll wait and see what the Minister says about that. I'd also like to see what proposal you're going to make. But since there are so many possibilities, I do not know whether we should record them in detail. So it's still a dilemma. I haven't figured it out either. I'm really open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u42	We can say now: we leave it at the institute and we trust it. We all wish we could, but that is, of course, what has happened for years. Politics has made it happen that things have gone so wrong in Groningen. Of course, we shouldn't go into every detail, but this is exactly a stick that will keep the government moving. I would very much like to record that today, at least in general terms. How that is worked out, we can always talk about it. It is precisely because the Chamber is partly responsible for letting this happen that we must do everything we can to prevent it from happening. I hope that Mr Van der Lee agrees with me on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u43	At the main point, we agree. It's happening now. I also recognise that it can be a sensible stick and leverage. I'm in favour of that, too. But the question is how detailed we are going to fill that out and whether we are not going to restrict the space of a new institution that we want to give space. That's just the spare I have left with me right now. Mr President, concluding. The strengthening is increasingly being done by the Minister of the Interior, but I also hope in that area that we will get that dashboard and that we will get much more insight into the figures. Because we consider this important, it is also important that we hear a little more from the Minister about the provision of information to the Institute for Mining Damage. We need to be able to monitor progress very closely, both in terms of the handling of damages and in terms of the strengthening in the future. In the future, we will be able to appeal to this minister much less directly to any choice of the institute, because that is part of an independent institution. But then there will still have to be accountability from the Institute, in very sound interim reports, but also in annual reports. We, too, must have a moment as a Chamber in order to be able to control it and to appeal to the Minister and, if it does not work out well, to be able to intervene again. I hope that's not necessary. I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you. Then Mrs Mulder from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Today, we are taking an important step for Groningen, because today we are discussing the draft Temporary Measures on a public-law approach to the consequences of soil movement through gas extraction from the Groningen Field and the gas storage at Norg, the Temporary Law Groningen. For the CDA, it is important that all damage caused by gas extraction from the Groningenveld and the gas storage at Norg is made public in order to help residents with damage quickly and independently. We are concerned that we still have to wait for the law on reinforcements. As one of the parties to the internet consultation on the Law indicated reinforcement, there is, of course, often a connection between strengthening and damage handling in practice. These are in many cases indistinguishable from each other, for example when replacing a damaged wall. Within the programmes Heft in Eigen Hand and Own Initiative of the National Coordinator Groningen, there is often a combination of damage recovery and strengthening. It is therefore also undesirable if damage handling and reinforcement were to be organized all along one another. How are the ministers going to make sure that the citizen is really at the centre of this process rather than the institution, or the implementation organisation or anyone else has a role to play in that process? Although this law is an improvement, it remains an administrative spaghetti for many people in Groningen. We can therefore well imagine that the Groninger Gas Council wants to have an insight into how the customer travels, as the gas council called it in the internet consultation. The term "customer travel" suggests that this is something beautiful. What are we going to do about that once in a while? If you're really putting the resident at the center, then you need to be able to make that clear. That's what I'm asking the Minister. Will the Minister do that, along with his colleague, especially now that the reinforcement is not in this bill? Mr. Chairman. For many Groningers, the settlement of claims is an unequal battle. They must fight against large organisations and agencies that have an army of lawyers and lawyers. This bill will put an end to this unequal struggle. The Institute Mining Damage Groningen builds on the practice of the TCMG. All the injured will be given a case counselor who will assist them in the procedure. The IMG must respect the principles of good governance, such as the principle of trust, the principle of fair play and the principle of due diligence. A damage protocol was established last year after intensive consultation. The CDA doesn't want to get rid of that. Should the new institute plead for strengthening or improving the position of the injured, the TCMG or the IMG will find the CDA on its side. But a deterioration is not an option for the CDA. I have a motion on that. Mr. Chairman. The draft law explicitly refers to the independence and impartiality of the IMG. For example, the members of the IMG are appointed by the Minister for Legal Protection. The Minister of EZK shall be responsible for providing staff for the performance of IMG's tasks and powers. The IMG is also dependent on the Ministry of EZK for the financing. We have a few more questions about this. Why has not a method been chosen in which the institute can simply recruit its own staff? For example, can the IMG itself decide whether it wants to hire a support agency and, if so, which agency? Can the Minister remove the doubts of the Groningen people as to whether the IMG is really going to become independent? Mr. Chairman. It is good that the purpose of the bill is to allow Groningers to report to one point of contact, to the IMG, which is given the power to award compensation for all types of damage. For example, damage to homes, loss of value, loss of home pleasure and also intangible damage. This should prevent any damage from being sent to the wall from the locker and prevent unnecessary delay in handling. The one-stop-shop idea is an express wish of the Groningen, but is it still at one-stop-shop? As I have just said, the reinforcement measures come to the NCG and later to the implementation organisation, the UO, on the basis of the municipalities' reinforcement plans and under the policy responsibility of BZK. With that there is a combined approach and that makes it complex again. How is it prevented that complex management of two implementation organisations, two ministries, seven municipalities, will seriously delay the resolution of damage and of reinforcement? State supervision of the Mines is also rightly critical of this and says in the internet consultation for the reinforcement law: how does this actually relate to the desire for a real crisis approach? I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A property that needs to be strengthened because of mining activities will therefore also in many cases suffer damage. According to civil law, the cost of strengthening measures necessary to increase safety in such a way as to reduce the risk of personal injury to acceptable levels is a normal injury. The disabled person has a right to have his home restored, but in this case he has to deal with different routes and organisations. When recording or inspecting the reinforcement notice, you could immediately record damage and look at the matchmaking opportunities with the National Programme Groningen, area development and sustainability. The question is: will that happen? The tax on residents can be reduced. This creates opportunities in uniformity of approach and in safety, quality, logistics and resources. Can the Minister respond to this? Will he also comment on the Gasberaad's suggestion on the aforementioned customer journey? I continue to have some difficulty with that word, but I fully agree with the spirit of the word. The CDA wants the Minister to look at the points of the Own Initiative and the Heft in his own Hand as positive by the residents. Will the Minister agree to that, too? How is the Minister going to ensure that civil society organisations are able to deliver their critical points to the IMG and to the implementation organisations? Can the Minister confirm that Stut-en-Steun, the Independent Councilman and also the Committee on Special Situations will continue to assist the Groningen when they consider it necessary? A specific point of criticism is that there is no room in the legislative proposal for a second opinion, as has been secured in damage protocols to date. For the CDA, it is important in answering whether or not an expert will be involved that stakeholders are not only dependent on the evaluation of the Institute. Is the Minister willing to offer room for support for that second opinion? Mr. Chairman. Building the Netherlands comes up with the proposal for a multi-annual quake damage recovery programme that can be project-oriented after the end of the reinforcement notice, a kind of periodic housing-apk on damage every five years. We are discussing the law on damage today, so I thought it would be a good time to ask the Minister how he looks at this. I understand that the Minister is asking me to repeat my question. Building the Netherlands comes with the proposal for a multi-annual quake damage recovery program, the MJBH program. Mr President, this whole legal process is full of abbreviations. I realize that must be terrible for the people who listen at home. I'm sorry about that. Anyway, you could be doing some kind of housing damage squad every five years. I am concerned that people are not confronted with the same situation every time and that they are simply given measures that are going to improve their homes further. They're not asking for this, are they? They're just confronted with it. Gas is being extracted and they have the mess at home. Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Law on Groningen provides that other types of damage is also dealt with by public rail. This concerns, for example, a decrease in the value of real estate, intangible damage and financial business damage. For the CDA, this is a significant positive change compared to the TCMG's handling, where only physical damage could be taken into account in the assessment of the application. Moreover, this does not exclude groups or objects from compensation. This removes, in the new situation, important bottlenecks in relation to the so-called old damage. Can the Minister give extra attention to groups of damage detectors, such as entrepreneurs, SMEs, farmers and monument owners, who in the past were not or hardly eligible for the compensation scheme? Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is important that these claims can be dealt with in the short term. The rapid entry into force of the law is important in this respect. Can the Minister indicate when he expects the law to come into force? This question is also relevant because we want both laws to come into force and the survey to take place after this other legal process. Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation on 27 November, many parties, including us, called for attention to be paid to the depreciation regime. I should also like to comment specifically on this today. The IMG is going to send homeowners a decision to compensate for the loss of value due to earthquakes. At the same time, the civil court is currently in the proceedings for damages of the Wag Foundation and the housing corporations. The calculation model of the Wag Foundation seems to result in a substantially higher remuneration than that of the IMG. Of course, this is where the shoe comes in. What can the Minister or the IMG mean to the Groningen if the judge grants a higher remuneration than the IMG has done? What happens if a court ruling comes after the standard time limit for lodging an objection procedure has expired on the decision of the IMG? Is it possible that the IMG will still pay out the difference to property owners without having to appeal again? Can't a decision be made? Can't the Minister just state clearly that this is his approach? I have a motion for that too. Mr. Chairman. On the IMG's decision, the Hammerstein Committee issued an opinion on which we have a number of questions. In the opinion of the Hammerstein Committee, the fee is based on the WOZ value, with the date of 1 January 2019. For the calculation of the decrease in value, the Committee assumes that the decrease in value due to the earthquake has been settled in the WZ value. Because the compensation rates are up to 12%, this is bad for owners with a higher fall in value. Since the fee is a percentage of the WPA value, the compensation is reduced as the real decrease in value is higher. It's all very complicated, but it comes down to the question of how the Minister looks at the theorem of the Groningen Soil Movement that there should be an opt-out scheme. If homeowners assume that the decrease in value as calculated by the model is not a good representation of the true decrease in value, they should be allowed to choose another method for calculating the decrease in value, for example by valuation. If you agree with the colleagues on that, everyone actually thinks that is a very reasonable idea. A second point concerns owners who have sold their home in the past using the former NAM value reduction scheme. The opinion of the Hammerstein Committee states that these people should no longer make use of the new value reduction regime. Does the Minister think this is fair? To what extent does the Minister see the opportunity to give these people the opportunity to make use of the new regime? In June 2016, the Ministry of EZK identified two primary policy objectives for Groningen: 1. security, 2. damage prevention. At point 1 several steps have been taken, such as the decision to bring the gas extraction back to zero as soon as possible. But does that also apply to point 2? I ask that because earthquakes are still taking place, especially much lighter ones, but they can also damage your home. This should be countered by preventive measures. Does the Minister agree? Does he also consider that the IMG should be able to pay compensation or take preventive measures in kind? Where, due to the nature and extent of the damage, the IMG considers that, although there is no acute unsafe situation, it may be necessary to accelerate the inclusion of a building or work in the reinforcement programme, the IMG may, with the agreement of the applicant, submit it to the organisation responsible for reinforcement. It is indicated that the application for compensation and the implementation of the reinforcement operations are aligned as closely as possible by the organisations concerned. What can we mean by 'as close as possible', especially those directly affected? What are they supposed to mean by that? Can the Minister ensure that residents are involved early in this consideration and that a decision can be expected within a specific period of time? Is the Minister prepared to have the possibility of damage prevention investigated and to have adequate measures carried out autonomously or as an integral part of damage recovery? The draft law provides that the IMG is not competent to review cases previously submitted to the CVW or civil courts, or to which a determination agreement has been concluded or is being negotiated. However, there may be reasons to justify a re-evaluation of past losses. The TCMG has now incorporated this option into the policy rules through a hardness clause. The CDA considers that this clause should also be included for the final Institute of Mining Damage. That is why I tabled an amendment on 15 October to make this possible. Yesterday, I amended that amendment in accordance with the advice of the TCMG and tabled it together with Mr Van der Lee. Not all damages submitted before 31 March 2017 have been dealt with. The IMG is not competent to deal with a claim for damages, if this concerns damage before 31 March 2017, even lodged at 12:00. In the note following the report, the Minister states that if the injured could not agree with the offer of the NAM, they could refer their case to the Board of Arbiters Soil Movement before 1 September 2018. The Minister states that he expects these procedures to be completed before the entry into force of this law. Can the Minister give an update on this? The NAM agreed to implement the Arbiters Council's rulings as soon as possible. When a duped cannot agree with the judgment of the Board of Arbiters Bottom Movement, the way to the bourgeois court is open to him. The King's Commissioner and the Minister of EZK are watching how this implementation is carried out. Here too, we would like to hear how this progress is being made. Mr Beckerman also mentioned those old damages, that people who could still prove through invoices. Well, when you hear that that doesn't really lead to anything, it makes me quite sad. Today or yesterday there was news from Groningen about soil movement. Mrs Beckerman called that an empty shell. I hope that is not really an empty shell, and that the Minister is also concerned about that. Because we set high ambitions and at the IMG it will be the desire to handle damage reports quickly and accurately. However, a vigorous approach stands or falls with the capacity to absorb, assess and deal with damages. Unfortunately, at the TCMG, we have found that ambition and reality, when it comes to speed in handling in the start-up phase, can be far apart. The IMG will therefore first have to be sufficiently strengthened from EZK, but sufficient experts will also have to be recruited. This is where it can be very difficult to fish from the same pond when it comes to acquiring expertise. Can the Minister guarantee that this will not lead to delays in the handling of damages in the establishment of the IMG? Are there enough people available to carry out the work in an adequate way? Mr President, almost finally, so I am going to walk in time. Yes... is the NAM really going to pay all the damages, even to the state, so we ask the minister. Because you start with one thing and you get into another, and it can't be that the NAM turns away for that. Can the Minister confirm that today? Mr. Chairman. Today is the first meeting day of the House of Representatives in the year 2020. In recent years, we have always said at the beginning of the year: the coming year will be the year when we are going to take really big steps and Groningers will notice that progress is being made. And then we had to find at the end of the year that it wasn't even the year of the Groningers. We want words, and we want deeds. Where is the Minister going to take the steps needed this year? Because I can follow very well what my colleague from the SP and also from GroenLinks say about the fines; I find all this very recognizable. When I talk to Groningers about this, it's just a big deal. And everyone has lost it a little bit: when is it really going to happen, when will I see the difference in my home, in my parents, in my children, in my grandchildren? The Minister here can take an important step in that direction. I hope he actually will. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Kops of the Party for Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. August 2012 was the earthquake at Huizinge, with a force of no less than 3.6 on the Richter scale. That was seven and a half years ago. After that, in 2013, the gas extraction in Groningen did not go down as you would expect, but even increased. Speaking of government failure! January 2018 there was the quake at Zeerijp, with a force of 3.4 on the Richter scale. Again two years ago we discussed this in this Chamber. And we remember, when we were discussing the national disaster in Groningen for the first time, because that is what it is, of course, we were moderately positive, especially after years of misery under his predecessor Minister Kamp. They even talked about the rigid Camp and the flexible Wiebes. But we cheered too early. For example, 2019 would be the year of implementation, that was promised to us, but it didn't happen, so they were false promises. It is now January 2020, the cabinet has almost been ruled out again, and only now we are dealing with the Temporary Law Groningen. It's all taking so long. Mr. Chairman. Why don't you let that get to you? Because within no time the cabinet manages to assemble an emergency nitrogen law. And it has also succeeded in putting together a national climate agreement, which you all think about in terms of content. But the Groningen have been waiting for justice for years. When I read that the Minister did not want to wait until we could also deal with the proposal for the reinforcement notice, we must obviously be pleased with the so-called speed of the Minister. Actually, I'd rather turn it around. Why is the proposal for reinforcement not now, as we speak, ready for plenary? Then I'm not even talking about the content of that. Mr. Chairman. The proposal we are discussing today provides the basis for the public-law settlement of damage, which is, of course, justified, and the Institute for Mining Damage to be set up in Groningen. It's not about the backup. That is not logical, because of course damage handling and reinforcement have to do with each other; that has been said before. That certainly doesn't make sense because that reinforcement doesn't want to rush either. At the end of November, Mr Groenhagen of the NCG said: "I say it with shame. Backup's not working. This file rattles and does not have the progress it deserves." Just yesterday, the mayor of Central Groningen said: "The reinforcement is slow, far too slow. This is unacceptable suffering for the people involved. It must be over and over again and again." We are now discussing a proposal in which this much-needed reinforcement has not yet been dealt with. How long has this minister been Minister? How long has the misery in Groningen been going on? Dozens of years. So again the question: why is it taking so much time? The Minister writes in the note following the report "that both organisations, the Institute for Mining Damage, Groningen and the NCG, aim to treat damages and reinforcement together, wherever possible, and to provide them with a comprehensive solution where possible." Mr. Chairman. It's all so vague. How are we supposed to see that? What good is these texts right now, when we are discussing this bill? How is the Minister going to prevent the emergence of a new mess of different institutions that are working side by side that no one is wiser about? Mr. Chairman. Since the start of the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage, 48 000 claims have been received there. 19,000 of them are still being treated. In other words, it doesn't want to rush. The Minister then writes that the institute to be set up should be able to define its own working methods; the institute can, of course, draw on the experience gained from the temporary committee, but is not bound by it. How are we supposed to see that now? What certainty does that offer the injured at this time? Actually, nothing. And how are we going to prevent the wheel from being reinvented, despite the experience of the temporary committee, and that is going to lead to delays again? The Minister's only argument is the independence of the institute, which is, of course, justified. But that this is the only argument is far too simple. The new institute will handle not only material damage, but also intangible damage. We know that determining the height of material damage is not easy, let alone determining, for example, mental damage. The Minister writes that experts will issue an opinion on the establishment of a method for this purpose. How are we supposed to imagine that? How does it work? For let us be honest: for those who have been in misery for years now, no amount can in fact compensate for that intangible damage. What is the Minister's view of full and generous compensation in this respect? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of lengthy procedures, the maximum decision-making period for the Institute will be 12 to 15 months, we read. And that's a big deal. This means once again more than a year of uncertainty, apart from the years of uncertainty that people are already in. First of all, it was the NAM who frustrated and trained the damage handling for a length of days, and now it is actually the minister who, precisely by laying down the legislation of those decision-making mines from 12 to 15 months, does not give the impression that it will all go faster. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the Temporary Law Groningen, but how temporary is it actually temporary? The exceptional measures contained in this proposal are applicable as long as the particular situation in Groningen justifies it, the Minister said. Therefore, this proposal does not include an end date. This is, of course, very significant, because even after the gas extraction in Groningen has completely ended, the soil movement can continue for a long time. Actually, that's a very sad prospect. This proposal therefore has no expiry date, but an evaluation obligation, Article 20, which states that the Minister must report on the effectiveness of this law and the need for the continuation of the measures. The question I would like to ask the Minister is: what then? Who then decides on the continuation of this law and what assurance does it offer at this time? Mr. Chairman. The only role the NAM should play under this law is ultimately paying the bill. The Minister will settle this by imposing a tax decision on the NAM. Let's be honest, we don't exactly know the NAM as an organisation that likes to take on its responsibilities by generously compensating damages of its own accord. Otherwise, this bill would not have been necessary at all. Is it not, therefore, in line with the expectation that the NAM will challenge to the utmost any tax decision that will be imposed? Will that money ever come back in the end? How does the Minister see this legal trick in front of him? Mr. Chairman. As suggested earlier, also by other parties, such as the PVV, and not by the coalition parties, of course a general pardon for Groningen would have been best. That may sound a bit crazy from the mouth of a PVV'er, but in the case of Groningen we make an exception for that. Why didn't you just put a line on all the damage cases? Spacious payouts and carry on. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned. We await the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group. We're going through it pretty fast, I'm establishing. So maybe we can finish the whole debate before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. Since the earthquake in Huizinge in the summer of 2012, tens of thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of damage have been reported and I am not even talking about the damage that has not been reported. We all know how it went. Efforts have been made to achieve rapid and independent damage treatment. Instead, the NAM had a big finger in the porridge and his people stuck in papers and in procedures for far too long. It is not for nothing that the National Ombudsman and the Safety Research Council have cracked critical notes about the way in which damages are handled. At first there was only damage to buildings, now there is also intangible damage, damage to people's health because of stress and uncertainty. The National Programme Groningen tries to give people new perspective. And that's good. And beautiful things happen, too. Projects for renewable energy, sports facilities, village renewal and people can also present ideas for projects themselves. At the same time, all these projects do not affect people's hearts. People will only regain their trust when they are at the centre. People have not asked for damage to their homes or damage to their health. Then the least that the government provides for generous treatment of damage, and therefore really all the damage. That is why it is a good thing that we are talking today about the Temporary Law Groningen. This brings about a public-law settlement of all damages, by the independent Institute for Mining Damage Groningen, with legal protection at the administrative court. In addition, the possibility of dealing with damage under civil law remains directly with NAM, with legal protection in the civil courts. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about damage, it is also about loss of value, about intangible damage and about costs that a person has to incur in order to prove damage. I told you, it's good that we're talking about all the damage with this bill. It is important that damages are paid generously, as has always been promised by the government and by the minister. That is why I have endorsed an amendment by D66 on this subject. Then it is all the more surprising that the suspicion of evidence only applies to physical damage to buildings. I wonder how the Minister sees this. Can intangible damage elevate on the physical damage, as there is a causal link? I am considering a motion on this point. Let us prevent people who are already getting enough of their choice from taking up this fight. Mr. Chairman. A decision on compensation for damage shall follow no later than eight weeks after receipt of the application or 12 weeks after receipt of the expert opinion if this is necessary to ensure an adequate assessment of the damage. However, this expert opinion may be delayed for a year according to criteria laid down in the law. Can't do it any faster, I'm asking the Minister. What powers does he have, as a minister, when deadlines are structurally exceeded? After all, the reservoir control is still fresh in the memory. It was a shame it was necessary. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Institute is given the opportunity to set up a committee of experts. But does that also apply to the injured? Can they appeal to counter-expertise if they do not agree with the opinion of the Institute? So far, this possibility has been included in damage protocols. Is this counter-expertise therefore eligible for compensation? I'd like a response from the Minister. In many places in the pieces I read about the desire to carry out damage handling and reinforcement as much as possible in conjunction. My group has often insisted on this. We need to avoid a double adoption process, two people on the floor and all the stress, worries and costs involved. How does the Minister intend to organise this? In the explanatory statement, I read the following: "If, due to the nature or extent of the damage, the Institute considers that, although there is no acute unsafe situation, it may be necessary to accelerate or in any case include a building or work in the reinforcement programme, the Institute may, with the agreement of the applicant, submit it to the organisation responsible for implementing the reinforcement programme." All this doesn't reassure me. If I read the sentence correctly, I read here that the initiative lies with the institute. But are the people who handle damage sufficiently focused on this? Are people also always passing by, for example, the builder's variant.......................................................................................................................................................... Then there is the protection of personal data. Of course, it is important, but there will have to be a certain degree of exchange of information in order to carry out damage handling and strengthening in a coherent manner. I would like to hear from the Minister what an integrated process, step by step, looks like for the residents, how they can be most relieved of it and where they can go, at the one point of contact that this Chamber has so often called for and on which a motion from me, signed by many, has also been adopted. I have an amendment in preparation on this point. The Institute for Mining Damage does not have the power to re-assess 10,000 old damages cases dealt with by the NAM and the CVW. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the Institute is given the power to re-assess the files in the event of very serious damage and/or exceptional process. I therefore support the amendment on the hardness clause that has been tabled on this subject. From the region, civil society organisations and public authorities are concerned about the possibility of NAM being designated as a third party to decisions taken on the basis of this legislative proposal. How does the Minister judge this? Can he say today that this will not happen for legal reasons? After all, we wanted the NAM to be completely out of the damage settlement process. If one thing keeps coming back, it's that people want to feel seen and heard. Too often the human size has been lost. Others have said that too. The Minister has waived an advisory body consisting of residents, because transparency of powers is a high priority. He drew attention to the framework law on Zbo's. However, the situation in Groningen is unique and may offer that particular reason. Can the Minister explain again why he does not think this is possible? Why shouldn't we set up a committee of doomed people to ask for their advice and advice? On this point, too, I am considering a motion. Review of the law takes place after three years and then every five years. Why was this chosen? It is customary for legislation to be reviewed after two years, and therefore a response from the Minister. Does this bill also have a limitation period? I'm rounding up. It is good that we are discussing this bill today. I will present this bill with a positive opinion to my group. At the same time, this is only half the story. We're talking about the damage handling, while the biggest pain is in the reinforcements. I started my speech with the quake at Huizinge seven and a half years ago. I'm guessing 100,000 damage reports have been reported. 1,000 homes have been reinforced. This is Groningen's lousy story. This is real government failure we're talking about right now. I therefore sincerely hope that we will be able to deal with the law dealing with reinforcement in this Chamber in the very near future, so that something will actually change for the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u50	You're absolutely right. We are not conducting the real debate at all today, but we are postponing it for ourselves, when that debate, about strengthening, is so much needed. It is about this crisis approach, which the supervisor said: if you don't do it now, you're gonna disrupt that community a lot more. It is really scandalous that we have to wait for that and it is scandalous how long Groningers wait. A simple question, even now, is: would you be in favour of setting such a penalty clause for residents who have to wait for the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u51	I cannot fully oversee the ins and outs of this, but I can understand very well that the SP Group is presenting this question. I'm very willing to look at this. Perhaps the SP has an amendment in preparation on this point, or perhaps it will come to the total of the legislation, if we discuss it in some time. But I certainly have the willingness to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u52	That is a wavering yes, but I am pleased with that; thank you very much. Because we, too, do not see it as a solution at all. You have been here for a long time and you know that we have made promises of this kind to Groningen many times, but that it is not always settled. It's a stick behind the door. I would really like to point out that it is very common and that it is already the case with TCMG, but that it has been taken out of the law. That's why it should be today. I would like to ask that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u53	I have also literally asked the Minister what sticks are behind the door. Penalty clauses can help to speed things up, because that is what really needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Sienot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr. Chairman. D66 also wants the Groninger to come to one; he is entitled to a reliable and independent settlement of the damage. Of course, that is never possible if the NAM plays an important role in the recovery process. It's crazy that we had the cause of the damage determined for years. It is good that this law regulates that the role of the NAM has been played out. The law is necessary, but hopefully it will also apply briefly. Hence the term "temporary." Now that we're shutting down the gas tap in Groningen, the disturbance in the soil will subside, but we don't know how fast. Could the Minister perhaps say more about this? Is it possible to set an end year for the law? I therefore agree with Mr Kops' question, but when it comes to Groningen, PVV and D66 often agree how temporary the Temporary Law Groningen is. The Groningen earthquakes not only hit houses, but also people. Before the recess we could see that intrusive at the children's musical A letter to the NAM. The entertaining performance, with beautiful songs and funny scenes, allowed you to feel the emotions of the injured for a moment: stress, uncertainty, sadness. Therefore, D66 considers it very positive that the region's desire has been heard and intangible damage and loss of value have been included in this law. The question to the Minister is: what is this going to look like in concrete terms? In determining the compensation for the fall in value, we see, for example, very significant differences between the proposals of the experts of the WAG Foundation and those of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So what does the Minister say about the idea of being generous in this too? Just move further towards the claim of the WAG, under the condition that the benefit is partly used to improve and make the home more sustainable. Then we hit two birds with one stone. This law regulates the formal handling of damages. At the same time, despite the reservoir regime, the number of damage reports is growing again in practice. Does the Minister already know what we can do about this? Because we can record everything on paper, but in the end it has to change. How's the IMG gonna do that? According to the Minister, it will delay if we regulate the reinforcement and the settlement of damages at the same time. Now, of course, we do not want any unnecessary delay, but we would like to see the critical reactions of the Groninger Bottom Council and the SodM heard as soon as possible. Make sure that the reinforcement law delivers faster results; listen to the criticism from the region on the law; work together with the organisations on improvements. I would like a response from the Minister to the criticism of these organizations, which is very valid. How can it lead to improvement in law enforcement? The law is necessary, but D66 still sees a number of points to improve the law that is now before us. It was already about the maximum decision-making period of 15 months. That's mesjogge, of course. Can't that term be shorter? The starting point has been six months. Of course it may be that it's a very complex matter and that you want to keep some space, a bit wider in your jacket to do justice to it. But can we not turn that around and say: by default it is six months and in exceptional cases there is room to name but what? Now it's way too long. By default, it should never be 15 months. How can we ensure an automatic or at least rapid exchange of information between different public authorities to help the Groningers as quickly as possible? The Groningers are eager and have little objection if important information is shared between governments, if they have been helped more quickly. However, in practice this clearly leads to delays, because we have had several questions about this. I would like a reply from the Minister on these two points. Then there's the hardness clause. For D66, the people of Groningen are going ahead with legal rules. We therefore want it to be possible to deviate from those rules in dire cases, especially when people have already had an unjustified rejection of the NAM or the Centre for Safe Living, organisations that we are taking out of the process, and that is not for nothing. That is why D66 strongly supports the amendment tabled by GroenLinks and the CDA. In this Chamber we often ask for a generous handling of the damage for the Groningen. So let's just put it in the law. Then you know what you've got. You don't know what the future will bring, but at least a law will give you some certainty. That is why I am tabling an amendment to this effect. The Temporary Law Groningen also contains a legal looming error that I would like to talk about. My colleague Van der Lee did the same. The injured party is entitled to compensation under civil law or civil law. But because the Institute of Mining Damage is an administrative body, the victims are given a decision which is governed by the rules of administrative law, while both civil law and administrative law apply. However, the administrative judge may seek judicial advice only with questions referred to the highest administrative judge, the Council of State, but not to the highest civil court, the Supreme Court. D66 therefore believes that advice should be sought there too. Because when this process was still running through the NAM, preliminary questions to the Supreme Court helped solve complex cases, and many Groningers benefited from them. That is why we would like an amendment to correct this looming error, together with GroenLinks. Finally, Mr. Chairman. This law is an important and necessary step. We're gonna get the NAM out, but we're a long way from here. D66 wants tears in houses to be repaired quickly and that the number of damage reports is shrinking rather than seeing it rise again. Moreover, we also want to see the reinforcement regulated quickly, together with the region and with the Groninger on one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you. Then Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about something that Groningers has been waiting for for a long time. You just expressed the hope that we could be ready for dinner break. That could be a paragon of speed. I will therefore not repeat everything others have already said and which I fully agree with, but merely give a brief list of them. Everyone's concerns about how it goes through the separate handling of reinforcement and damage are also our concerns. That's why I'm not in favour of calling in another third department. It will have to be done quickly, because this separation can once again bring about its own dynamism and its own problems. It also causes problems with the too low damage from the past. This is a temporary law, but the question is whether we are going to see the end of the law ourselves. That is not a plea to ensure that it ends quickly, but who can predict how long the movements in the soil will last? I therefore believe that this should be clarified and I shall table a motion on this in the second term. I've heard from a lot of people here, too, that they're worried about this. If I tabled a motion to clarify the matter of temporaryity, I shall do so in order to make it clear that it is not too short, but that it may take too long, and that there must also be sufficient arguments to get rid of temporaryity. So that's a little bit of a bone that's in the throat. However, there is something else that concerns us and which has not yet been discussed by other spokesmen. Article 6.178 of the WFD had been declared inapplicable and that waiver has now been lifted. Frankly, I find the argument why it is no longer necessary, not clear. I'd say use the precautionary principle. We should not be in a situation in which ultimately the Dutch taxpayer will compensate for all the damage because the NAM can successfully rely on this exception, the exception which means that they are not responsible for the damage. That is why I would like to make a strong plea for maintaining the exception to the exclusion of this article. In this way, there can never be a discussion as to whether the NAM will still be liable for the damage, as the operator may also challenge a charging decision. We wonder how this is going to work. Because does it mean that this law actually regulates the budget law, namely that it is paid, but that if the NAM does not contribute sufficiently, no separate decision will be taken in the Chamber? Is the budget law that comes under this law also certain that we also say that if it is successfully challenged, it will result in a transfer of the damage to public funds? I would like to make a second general comment on something that has not yet been discussed. In this case, we are talking about reversing the burden of proof in the event of damage. It has also been discussed in the round tables that this reversal should actually apply to the rest of the country. And frankly, I agree with that. Because as unique as Groningen's problem is, the problem of people suffering damage as a result of mining activities is the same everywhere. So, as far as we are concerned, there should also be a change of that principle with regard to the other mining damage. The amendment on non-enforcement has been tabled. I'm considering tabling two motions in the second term. One concerns the temporality of the law and another concerns the more explicit nature of the circumstances in which the tax decision imposed on the NAM can be challenged. We want to be better informed about this than has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first debate of the new parliamentary year is about Groningen. I think there will be many more debates on this. This debate is about the bill on the public handling of damages. It's a bit of a flawed bill in the end. Because if you look at what people need, especially people with major damage, there will often be talk of strengthening the house, the monument or the mill they live in. And then you still have to go somewhere else. In fact, everyone in the Chamber, as well as the Minister, is unhappy with that. I note that we are now legally throwing the NAM out of the damages settlement, but that people often depend on two different applications, two different institutions, two different procedures to finally get their house back in order. That's still sad to see. Because eventually they don't have to go to the NAM anymore, but yes, if they want to have their whole house in order, they still have to go somewhere else for reinforcements. I'm very unhappy about that. That does not mean that we will vote against this law, because it is better than what we had - that NAM is nothing - but I am very unhappy about it. Then I'll get to the point of the fall in value. This law also provides for compensation for this. In any case, the principle is regulated. People can claim material and intangible damage, including psychological damage. I ask the Minister how this is done. There's been a commission. There's a lot of discussion and debate about it. We have also had debates on it before. Pros and cons have been discussed. In the meantime, there is also another ruler who is grievous about this. I think Professor De Kam has very valid arguments when he says: is it reasonable not to give compensation at all where less than 20% of the people have reported? If you live in a neighborhood where fewer reports have been made, why do you not have the right to compensation at once? Are you sure that's reasonable? And is the compensation proposed by that committee sufficient in the event of very serious damage? I think that is very relevant questions. I ask the Minister: what does this law that we are going to adopt now mean, which states the principle that people will be compensated for loss of value? What does that mean? Is that what this committee is supposed to follow? Or does it mean that these valid arguments of De Kam, which ultimately also lead to a factor of 1.5 to 2 times more damages for depreciation, are now becoming a reality? The PvdA would prefer that. Mrs Mulder has rightly asked questions about the legal position: if you are entitled to more, do you have to object to it individually or is that automatic? I am also curious about the Minister's answers to that. Then we still have the old damage. Yesterday there was a rather firm press release from the Groninger Soil Movement. This is what he's saying. The Chamber has had an investigation conducted into the handling of the old damages. People are dissatisfied - which has also been recognised by the Minister and the Commissioner of the King in Groningen - but they come up with a solution that does not offer a solution. There are so many strict conditions, so many fences around - you must have receipts and have turned things down; there must be amounts and deadlines - that no one really qualifies for them. I ask the Minister to respond to that. Is that right? Then why did he set it up like that? Isn't it true? Can he reassure people that anyone who feels inadequate and failed will be compensated for more damage than he has previously agreed to? 'Cause that's what this is about. I will come to another point. This concerns the position of some valuable organisations in Groningen. I mention Stut-en-Steun, also mentioned by previous speakers, but also the Independent Councilman. I think that's an authoritative person in Groningen. It's ringing the bell. It'll ring the bell. I'm looking for the proverb. "Turn the cat on the bell," says the minister, but that's not good. That's the proverb, but that's not what I meant here. Anyway, at least he puts his finger on the sore spot. He doesn't hesitate to do that. He's coming up with clear reports. I think he's helping, too. He also has the authority in the area to occasionally achieve something for people who are really in trouble. The answers to the Chamber say that he has actually become redundant and that an ombudsman in public organisations can accept that. I'd say that's a shame. We already have a sea of organizations, but then you have something that works. It's also linked to a person. That's always the case with things like that. Then you'll have someone who has that authority. He'll do a useful job. I would like to call on the Minister to just maintain that. There's gonna come a time when he's got nothing left to do. At least, I hope so. And then we're done. So I'd like to make that appeal to the Minister. Is he prepared to ask Mr Klaassen? Mr. Chairman. Then the issue of fines. Mrs Beckerman has already asked for this. I am not at all in favour of these fines and such, but it is very common in the Netherlands that, if you are entitled to something from the government but it takes far too long and it goes wrong, there will eventually be financial compensation. This applies in full to administrative law, if you apply for a permit, but also if you are applying for an asylum procedure. It has also just been established in the case of childcare payments, albeit on a detour, but that is based on the same principle. I ask the Minister to do so. That is not without reason, because we know that everything has taken a long time in Groningen and that a great deal has been promised and far too little has been done. I just need to remind you of 2019 as the year of its implementation. It just didn't work out. That is also widely recognised, so I do not think it is unreasonable to offer any compensation for that huge waiting, also because that is quite common practice. So I ask the Minister why that is not in this, whether it is not possible to do so, or whether it is implicit in that law by way of a detour, through the General Administrative Law. But in that case, I would just like to see that explained. I also ask the Minister: what is "too long"? Is that longer than six months, which I would consider reasonable? I see 12 to 15 months in the pieces. As long as it's gonna take, I'm afraid. But in the long run, it is reasonable for people who wait so long, who have been struggling for so long and who have been in these procedures for so long, to start now, but of course it has been going on for so long; but the law is only now going to offer it to them. Does the Minister agree with me and is he prepared to do so? I would also like to draw particular attention to the entrepreneurs. The PvdA is not an entrepreneurial party in advance, but with farmers, SME entrepreneurs and catering entrepreneurs it really doesn't work out. They're really far behind all the people in a house. That problem is being rubbed under the noses of every debate. Does that mean that they can also receive compensation, including for lost profits? Two. I read that is quite precisely stated in the reply "that the NAM will not claim the limitation period for residents." Does that also apply to entrepreneurs? Because everyone here in the Chamber knows that a lot of farmers and SME entrepreneurs have only partially reported the damage. I don't trust the NAM so much that I think: oh, they don't do it for homeowners, then it will work for entrepreneurs too. For the same reason, they have made up another legal argument that they are entrepreneurs and business parties, while they are justzzp'ers and butchers, bakers, garage owners and I do not know what anymore, who are just as duped as everyone else. Is the Minister prepared to clarify that there too the limitation period does not apply? Mr President, that was my first contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u60	Yeah, it scared you yourself that you were just finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yeah, I was just looking at the time and thinking, "I still have plenty of time." But you wanted to hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u62	Yeah, but you still have two minutes. Anyway, you're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u63	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u64	So much for the first term of office. A domestic announcement from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u65	Because I am in favour of Amendment No 1, because I am not in favour of it. 14 with Mr Van der Lee, I would like to see Amendment No 14 tabled together with Mr Van der Lee. 13, that is again Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to say Amendment No 13, that is to
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u66	Yes, thank you. Then we'll be all right. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u67	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr President, thank you. This is indeed the first debate of the year. But also one of the first things that reminded you of Groningen was damage. That's what it all started with. That was then the stone on the road we talked about. If that were not to be resolved, we would not have a meaningful discussion on all other subjects either. I would like to deal with the various aspects of the law, not only with the law itself but also with everything that is dealt with by law, so all forms of damage. But I'm never completely complete in that, because I'm writing all over myself. I've got a lame hand out of it. You ask a lot of questions. You ask the right questions and you get answers to them. Then I walk by the spokesperson what I have not been able to fit in with the general argument. I think it's good to start the argument with what it really started with. It looked like discontent, but it was also what I also appointed at the time, a form of injustice, a mistake and a government failure. I'm talking about the situation in which the causer handled the damage. That means as much as this. If you're hit on the street and you don't agree with the driver about how much damage there is, you'll eventually go to a wise person who'll judge that. But then when you get in there, you'll find that's the same man who hit you: judging the causer. I said that we should have recognized earlier that this could not be done. We have had families sued against a multinational when it was about a very large public interest. That has been an unequal situation. I immediately indicated that I was also in the previous cabinet and that I did not see it at the time, from a slightly greater distance. But whoever puts his head in there sees that. Then there was a very constructive period. Sometime in February 2018, we sat together with the region and civil society organisations, and said: this is the greatest suffering that needs to be resolved. I've had a lot of confirmation after that. I talk a lot to people who say: we can understand that things take longer and we don't find it weird to occasionally get wrong or not to get what we wanted, but what we can't have is that the causer, who has a financial interest, determines what our damage is. That is the central point and that is why it must be done independently. But the word "independent" means a lot. This means that we need to look into the position of a kind of semi-jurisdictionary: the IMG. I shouldn't have to influence that. But in all honesty, the people here in the Chamber should not do that either. The mayors shouldn't do that either. At the same time, it is a party that must be in touch with society and must know what is happening. But it must be independent, as if it were the real justice. That alone can give the confidence that comes with damage handling. This includes an independent assessment, which at the same time worries. We no longer want people to have to prove themselves that there is damage, that it is caused by seismicity and that there is this, this or this going on. We need someone who's independent and who's investigating what it's supposed to be: a semi-jurisdiction. If we embrace that great thought, other things don't fit in. That means I can't tell you what it's gonna be like. We'll get to that later. I'll say a few things about it, but I won't prescribe anything. I cannot say anything about what a fall in value is going to be like, nor can I say that what a committee recommends is being taken over by the IMG. I'll talk about that in a productive direction, hopefully, but I'm not going to prescribe anything to this party. That also means I'm not saying anything about that trial. That also means that I do not decide who is going to work there or that there should be a council of advice. But that does mean that the IMG must understand itself in detail with civil society organisations, residents and municipalities. That's what the TCMG is doing now, I think the IMG will be the quartermaster in a very appealing way. That's what I hear from all the parties. By the way, I hear that mostly back from the TCMG. She says that she learns a lot from the conversations with all these parties and therefore also adjusts her way of working and sometimes becomes aware of adjustments. That's exactly how it's supposed to go with me. But the fact that I and those present do not have a direct influence on individual decisions does not mean that we cannot play the roles that we have to play. After all, I still have the system responsibility. Through that bill, I have arranged for me to be able to exercise that system responsibility. I therefore need to be informed and have an annual report. I have to approve the administrative regulations and give the organisation sufficient resources and I can intervene if there is serious neglect of duties. So, on the way things are going, I'm definitely going to talk to the IMG. But all these things also make it possible to control the Chamber, because I will forward that information to the Chamber. I have absolutely no intention of restricting the information. I intend, if possible, to indicate more clearly how things are progressing so that this Chamber can appeal to me on my system responsibility and make a judgment on how things are going, because that remains important. I'm not done with that. It's just that I don't interfere with individual decisions. That bill, of course, gives us an extension of the types of damage that we can deal with now. Many have said so. It's not just about physical damage. It is also a question of material damage and loss of value. All these things are possible. The legal anchoring has so far been somewhat shaky. It's getting firmer. But the whole flow of costs and the guarantee of independence are also getting stronger. And yes, it's true that the reinforcements are still coming. That the bill will come later should not in any way hinder us from reaching the arrangements, because the TCMG also worked as if it were an IMG. That is how it must now be done in the event of the confluence of damage and the strengthening of it. That shouldn't wait for a bill. I'm not gonna be able to say much about the bill strengthening. There isn't yet. In addition, another ruler is jointly responsible for this. We also have other debates and other opportunities to discuss them. I will say a few words about this later, where this is necessary, but I will go into the combination in detail, and I will now. Mr Harbers has spoken about concern, but he also asks how this goes in the combination of damage and strengthening. Mr Van der Lee has also asked if I can say anything about this coincidence. Mrs Mulder said: I want the citizen to be at the centre; tell me and make it clear to me how this should work in the combination of these organisations. Residents are not all the same and the situations are not all the same either. So there are still many cases of people who simply say: "It will all be with strengthening. It's gonna happen someday. That's what I'm on a list for. I'm in this or that, but I've got damage now, and I want the damage repaired now. I also want someone to come for the damage. Then I want to talk about damage and then I want my damage compensated." Of course, this will always be possible, but there are all kinds of situations in which this goes wider, from the experience of a resident. For example, there's a backup on someone. The same person also filed a claim for damages, at the time at the TCMG. Then it's important that one person comes along for the inspection of damage and for strengthening. That should not lead to any delay, but that is what someone would want. Someone says I've got damage and amplify, so don't make me stay home twice and call my work or get something for the babysitter. It may also be that someone has a backup, but hasn't made any damage reports. It would be nice if the recording expert would also check if there is any damage, because he is there anyway. And it could be that this damage, and the compensation for that damage, can somehow be taken into account in the wishes of that resident. It may also be that, either in the context of damage or in the context of strengthening, someone comes to say: well, I do not know if the resident himself might have an opinion on this, but I see a possible acute unsafe situation here. That's on the TCMG side, and later on the IMG side. But someone who comes within the framework of strengthening could see that. Even then, you want an inspection to take place within 48 hours. It doesn't have to be that someone is acutely unsafe, but that there is a damage report from a house that isn't on a list. But whoever comes to do the recording can say: I won't make the final judgment on it, but someone has to come by here to see if a recording is needed for real strengthening. These are all examples of coincidence. And where it collides, it's crucial to have one counselor. That is clearly from all the investigations, but also from the conversations I make myself. People are often very pleased with the person who guides the duped from within the organization. Those are people who have sometimes established a relationship of trust with people throughout the entire process of a claim or reinforcement. They know what is going on, know the situation and can respond to it. And if you're working with two of those people, it's not as pleasant. Well, that means that where that's going to play, we have to work with one counselor. Then it's also useful if the organizations are in one building. That's what's gonna happen. Then it's also useful if there's a joint call floor. That's what's gonna happen. All these things are integrated. That's not something that's waiting for that bill. That bill is about responsibilities, but it's not about this kind of thing. The bill doesn't say we're gonna work with one call floor. But to practice with the customer's journey, the NCG has now selected 60 files to start with. That's what's happening now. This concerns homes where both play: an increased risk profile, but also a relationship with the TCMG. We are going to see how this joint debate works. We also ask people how they see it, what they like about it and what they don't like about it, because there's probably still a lot to learn. Let me not go into the substance of the law on strengthening. I really stand for this to just start now. This shouldn't wait for law enforcement. One point that Mrs Dik-Faber asked for in the past is the exchange of information. This was covered by the General Data Protection Regulation. There's what you can and can't do. We have to stick to that, but that doesn't mean nothing's allowed. I, too, find, after a more detailed study of the General Data Protection Regulation, that I have probably used too rigid texts for this in the past, because a lot is already possible. There are a few conditions. They are very plausible, and they often occur. That's what this means. You may exchange information if the relevant government to which you give the data simply has a formal task for which that information is required, that is to say, at a municipality or at another point of contact, the case of......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The latter is certainly the case here. It's not about very personal, sensitive or medical data. It's about what's going on with your house and the damage, and it's the NAW data. So this should be possible in general. Is it something that's automatically allowed? No. It may not be automatic, but if I list these conditions myself, I can see that this is of course helpful in the cases where there is a coincidence. That's what we're interested in. So I am much less gloomy and much more cheerful about how this is about the data exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u69	Following the earthquake at Huizinge, which was also referred to by the Minister as "bevinkje," the supervisor, SodM, concluded that a crisis approach is needed to integrate damages and reinforcements, because otherwise social disruption would increase. We are not talking about a crisis approach at all today, but about a piece of it. On this new law, which we really should be talking about, the same supervisor says: this is not a crisis approach. The Minister is coming up with: instead, we are going to do a pilot with 60 people. When will the real crisis approach come, I ask the Minister? Because this social disruption is not combated in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u70	There are two sides to a crisis approach. They're very different. Operating as a single window, even if there are two separate laws, is in the interests of residents. That means in buildings one call floor, one businessman and so on. How that is formally behind the scenes with different laws and that people are served by two different laws is not their big point. We must therefore operate as one organisation. But the other point, which is considered much more important in the crisis approach by those who make statements about it, is that there is a need to speed up with a more standard approach. It is true that it would be quicker if we were to steer the reinforcements centrally and not the municipalities in the client's role, if there is no tailor-made work possible and not the residents. We would then be able to work on a standard industrial basis, as if there were no people living in these houses. Then we would also have a standard approach, tackling typologies to the extreme. But in all honesty, I say we didn't choose that. By way of derogation, we have chosen to put the municipalities in a client role, because we consider it socially important. We think it's important to be in a position to deliver customization. Take the batch 1581. We decided in July that batch will continue. As far as I have heard from residents, we have talked about this to the satisfaction of those residents for quite a long time. That gave them the opportunity to think about what their house should look like. That's not necessarily fast. That's not the fastest approach. That will not have been the approach that has led to security most quickly, but it has led to acceptance. People don't want to be treated like they don't live in that house. It's their house, and that's what we're dealing with. I know that there are opportunities to do it all faster, so all crisis-like, but I think that then we would really be starting a crisis socially. It has really been chosen to give the region and its residents that influence. Yeah, that takes time, too. Mrs Beckerman is right about that. That is the difference with the crisis approach. But that's a conscious choice. I really can't imagine another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u71	This is unbelievable. The minister says I'm not taking a crisis approach as the supervisor says. The supervisor says if you don't, you're gonna disrupt society even more. The Minister then says: no, I do not, because the municipalities and residents are on the move. It is the same municipalities and residents who say massively: we have no control at all and it is only getting worse with that law; it is becoming a huge bureaucratic monstrosity, a monster that we must fight again. It is the same municipalities that say this week: it is not working. What are we telling ourselves? I really think that the Minister should listen to that and amend that law as soon as possible in order to really make sure that social disruption stops and that residents get control, because that is really not what they have now or what they think they are getting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u72	There's no bill yet. It's not here either. I welcome Mrs Beckerman's call to listen to all the criticisms by default, because we do not hold consultations for nothing and we do not speak to all kinds of different parties for nothing. There's gonna be a bill. My suggestion is that we talk about it then. But let me say that operating as one window does not have to wait and will not wait for that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u73	I would like to address the issue of the coherence between strengthening and dealing with the damage and putting the resident at the centre. When I read the explanatory statement, I see that this coherent approach depends on the initiative of the Institute for Mining Damage. Then it can't be the intention, can it? Then it depends on someone stepping forward at some point and saying: an integrated approach is needed here. That can't be just the institute, can it? I mean, that's got to be the municipality or the resident himself, right? If we don't settle this properly in the law, it's gonna seem to me like it depends on coincidences. I really do miss a firm agreement in the law that lays down, step by step, how we are going to shape this coherent approach properly, so that residents in the same situation, who are entitled to reinforcement and damage treatment, can rely on both routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u74	But the operational co-operation between these organizations and the way in which the customer journey I adopt but the word of the Gasberaad is designed does not depend on a law. That's not a matter of law. We must always adapt operationally to what people expect and with which people are best served. You don't settle that in a law. We did not regulate all kinds of procedures and practices at TCMG in that decision either. Similarly, there are all kinds of organisations that have to operate in a certain way, but that is not in a law. In a law, you get the mandate. Optimizing how to work with people is something that needs to be looked at critically every day and constantly adjusted to the latest data. If we depend on a law for that, we'll turn this into a whole legal society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u75	What the minister says here actually sounds like music to me, because you want to bring back the human size. This applies not only to the residents, but also to the whole approach. At the same time, I can see that things are not going well on their own. In practice, I see that sometimes cohesion is far from being achieved. It really depends on who comes in to record the damage. It depends on who lives there, whether that's someone who knows the way around the whole landscape of damage and reinforcement. I'm not okay with that, 'cause you're gonna get really different. I would ask the Minister's attention to this. How are we gonna fix this? We may not do that in a legislative proposal, but one way or another it will have to be properly organised. My second question concerns the consent requirement. The Minister discussed the exchange of information. People need to sign a consent requirement now. That's a lot of paperwork. That just doesn't go well by itself. People drown in papers, papers are dragged back and forth, and in the meantime a solution is far from being found. I therefore call on the Minister to pay attention to this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'll just take the permission requirement with me to the organizations. I must say that I cannot judge whether this is necessary and normal. If it is not necessary and no one is at the service, then we must try to arrange it differently, but I find it difficult to judge. I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber's main argument. I've seen cases like this, too. I've been talking to people who said, "This is running along each other." I also spoke to people who said this: there is good contact now. But this is still quite an exercise. I think we agree that we cannot anchor this in a law, but we do agree that this is a primary objective and needs to be carefully worked out. This initiative is now taking place. As I have just said, we begin with those 60 cases, where we have to work out very precisely how this coherence takes place. Nor do I find it strange to come back to that in subsequent debates or AO's and to better outline the customer's journey. Nor do I find it strange to talk about this once with the directors of the various organisations concerned. It's just complicated. It is, but I can only say that I think Mrs Dik-Faber's objectives are perfectly reasonable. And the problems she's sketching are there. We're not doing it right everywhere. She's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u77	I hear the Minister making a commitment to inform the Court of Justice about this. That was actually my question: will he at least make a commitment that, as soon as we receive the legislative proposal, we will also have the state of play at that time on how the covenant concluded between the NCG and the TCMG, which lays the foundations for strengthening synergy, has worked in practice, so that we can put the practice alongside the legal effect? That would certainly be one of my requests. I think this pilot is a first step in that covenant. The second is to clarify: when are we going to get that bill? I would like to make it quite clear that I am asking this because it is also linked to another issue which we hope will be decided on this year as a Chamber, namely the start of the parliamentary inquiry. So I think it would be important for us to be clear today, perhaps not about a single date, but through a good indication of when we can begin to deal with the strengthening bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u78	I'll start with the first one. A state of affairs can always be reported. I will. The question is whether we can really tell what lessons we have learned and how we have adapted it, but let's see that at the time. Let me put it this way: this customer's journey is another's words, because I never think anyone is a government customer; someone has a right to something else is important. That's what I'm gonna deal with by then. I mean "we," because I do that with a colleague. The consultation of the part strengthens has been completed. The listening phase is in full swing. The proposal will be sent to the Council of State as soon as possible, but I cannot predict exactly when it will be back. Because how long is it at the Council of State? Perhaps I can give an estimate of that in the second term, but of course I am not the Council of State. So that's a bit of a guess, but I'll try to give an estimate in the second term of when that Act fortification is here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you. I would like to hear that, but I might have a supplementary request to that effect. Of course, that is what the Minister himself is about, but precisely because this is much more sensitive than the legislative proposal we are discussing today, I would also ask the Minister, in the explanatory statement, not only to reason on the basis of his own convictions, but also to give very explicit consideration to all kinds of objections or alleged objections expressed in the consultation and to respond to them. I think that might help in the follow-up phase. I would like to give that in advance for the further development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you for this suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u81	I just heard the Minister say that it is actually possible to exchange information between different governments and that he might have been a little reluctant in those earlier statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u82	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u83	Fantastic. It is possible, but it is not happening enough, otherwise we would not be constantly hearing these concerns here. So how is this new knowledge going to make it land where it is most needed, so that people are helped faster and knowledge no longer constitutes a barrier?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u84	Very nice. Let me take that with me on the customer's trip. So I shall return to that at the time requested by Mr Van der Lee with the state of play of that moment. Then I will go into this point as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u85	With regard to that last point, do we have a complete insight into what this customer journey looks like for the treatment of the Reinforcement Act? Otherwise, of course, there will be little point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u86	Yes. Mrs Mulder's colleague asked this way. I have said that the state of affairs can always be given. I'm gonna do my best to do that. Mr. Chairman. I started the argument with February 2018, when we launched this idea. It went a lot further than the coalition agreement. We've made this independent, and then they've been going on, about since April. And I really tend to defend the 350 people who have really worked their asses off, who are sometimes unkindly in all kinds of places, but who have just continued to do this work, here. For them this was indeed the year of implementation. They had to deal with a minister who sometimes posted certain things in this Chamber, while he had received warnings from home. For example, I said that the ambition for 2019 was to handle 19,000 notifications. That's what 28,000 have become because of that organization. In this Chamber, I have expressed the ambition to raise the number of recordings per week during 2019, which was between 200 and 300 per week, to 400 recordings per week. That was then called a very high number, but it was 500 to 600 and in the last week it was 650. Those people did. They have exceeded the expectations I have expressed here. They have done so with heart and soul and by working like hell. It was indeed the year of implementation. We finally made 28,000 decisions. That's a phenomenal achievement. I really need to name that. You may care about me for anything, but this was for the damage, by these people, the year of execution, in a more than impressive way. Are we there? We've done a lot of things to get it done, including things from this Chamber, I say honestly. I, too, have received incentives, for example about the builder's variant, the deployment of students, the housing corporation schemes and the reservoir schemes. That's all happened. After that, circumstances changed. The University of Groningen is investigating what's going on. The first signs are that now the window is running people seem to think that there is also room for the damage they never claimed because they first thought: forget it; I don't want to get frustrated. Compared to the influx we had first, the influx has now become a lot bigger. In total we received more than 10,000 damage reports than we thought at the beginning of the year. If all these are damage from people who actually have damage, without perverse incentives or talk, but simply plausible damage in the earthquake area, who do not distinguish themselves from other damage without weird things, and it looks like they are entitled to it and we should be happy with this influx. At the same time, it is a major operational problem. We have to solve that, too. We're on those 500 to 600 shots every week now. The TCMG itself has indicated that we may have to go to 800 or 900 recordings a week. That's what I reported here in November's AO. Personally, I'd rather we go to more recordings. That is a number that we considered unthinkable a year ago, but if that is not my commitment, then I must stop this dossier. So I'm betting on as much as I can. I have another conversation and a reconnaissance in Groningen very soon with the TCMG and the quartermaster of the IMG. The intention is therefore to increase the pace further. In doing so, we are faced with obstacles. We have recently hired new people with specific expertise, also for specific groups such as farmers or entrepreneurs. But it takes the greatest effort to find experts and people who are sufficiently skilled to do this work. We almost popped up the market. Further growth is extremely complicated and should also come from other methods, other ways of inspection, greater use of automation in reporting and so on. It is all a very big circus of initiatives, but this too must be speeded up. Now the logical question is as follows: if that fails or fails, is a fine appropriate? Let me just say that the comparison with the IRS doesn't go that far. At the Tax Office it is clearly marked: that is intangible damage. People in Groningen are entitled to that, but without a fine. A fine as a stick behind the door is something other than immaterial damage. They are two different concepts and they are both at issue. The TCMG already uses amounts of money when waiting. It happens. If it lasts more than a year, there's a fee. There's a nuisance charge for every alarm caller. There's an extra waiting fee for if that's exceptional. Those amounts are available and then there is also the Law on penalty payments and appeals in case of failure to decide in time, within the framework of the Administrative Law Act. This can reach up to €1,400. These instruments exist. Of course it is not for me to prescribe anything to the quartermaster, but since it is the same person, with the same reasonableness, the same logic and in the same situation, I trust that we will not put this overboard. Can I say that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u87	I'll come back to "the year of performance," because that's when I came here. I understand that the Minister says that there are a lot of people who have worked hard on those recordings, because that's what it's called and not damage experts. By the way, there were also a lot of consultants and counter-experts and lawyers, which made people crazy. Anyway, they've worked really hard, I get that. But the Minister doesn't want to claim, in this first debate of the new year, that 2019 was a fantastic success for the Groningers who suffered damage? In the end, there have only been a lot of people around and far too little has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u88	Is it a success if people still have damage due to seismicity and are not helped directly? Of course, that's not a success. Who in this room has reason to be satisfied? Not me! But overall satisfaction wasn't on the horizon a year ago either, especially with 11,000 additional damage reports on top of the prognosis. But it has become the year of implementation, in the sense that all my forecasts have been exceeded. Are we supposed to be happy? No. Am I happy here? No, I'm telling you here that the pace has to rise again and even significantly. That's my angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u89	Looking back on last year, both the opposition and the coalition said it was disappointing. The vans of the construction companies would drive, D66 always said, and the VVD also had similar terms. But that just didn't happen, did it? This is about damage and recordings. Thousands have been promised and dozens have been realized in the reinforcements. Then the Minister cannot say that people have done their best and that 2019 has become a great success? It's a drama.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u90	No, there is no reason for satisfaction on the damage front, which I have just explained in detail, but all the statements or forecasts I have reported here have been surpassed by these people. Whether you call it a van or not, 28,000 damages have been treated. 28,000! All the numbers over the speed have been surpassed. Is that enough? No, there's no reason for satisfaction at all. I am not standing here as a satisfied person, I am standing here as someone who speaks proudly to the people who did it, who have done more than I had anticipated and reported here. That's good, and that's a year of execution. Has there been sufficient execution? No, there's been a lot more. We've received 11,000 above our projections by now, so get on it. There is another great task, there is no reason for satisfaction, but there is reason for some pride towards the people who have fought this for each other and who have made Eric Wiebes a monkey, because they have done one and a half times as much as he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u91	Surely there is reason to be proud when Groningers have confidence and are satisfied again and not when they have only had a recording?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u92	No, 28,000 damages have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u93	The damage has been dealt with, but even then the contractor hasn't always been. So then you might have gotten the amount, but then you still have to settle it. I am not satisfied until people in Groningen get their house back in order, and when those houses are also strengthened, so not if the people have had that compensation, but still have to undergo a whole reinforcement operation. I hope the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u94	I fully agree with this. We really do not contradict each other in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u95	Mr. Chairman. I think it is really embarrassing to mention 2019 as the year of its implementation. This really is an example of a Hague reality that is just at odds with the Groninger reality, in which people are waiting in a broken and unsafe house. But my question was about the fine. It's good to hear the Minister say they're working with that now. So I trust that's gonna happen, but it's out of that law. And yes, just trusting that, I find it very difficult. Why wouldn't you say that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u96	I think I have just said that my expectation is that this practice will continue. I do not see any reason to include a fee, and it may also be that the social vision of this remuneration changes now to a law, at a time when this is running. I'd like to give the IMG an opportunity to adjust this amount. There may be new insights, which you say: I find this or that of it. That, too, is for the assessment of the person who carries it out. And he does that with verve, along these lines. And I expect it to continue. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u97	Yeah, but that doesn't guarantee that that arrangement will continue to exist anyway. And I think it's okay if those fines for the government go up sharply, because that's a stick behind the door, because in the end this is not a solution. That's fine when they go up. However, I would like to say today that what is now being imposed on fines is the minimum, and that it will continue to exist anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u98	That's not up to me. But I've just expressed the expectation. But these aren't things you have to deal with in the law. We have also discussed this in this Chamber in the past. This is running, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u99	Perhaps there is another clarifying question on that point. It might also solve Mrs Beckerman's problem. I believe that I have just heard the Minister say that the law on periodic penalty payments and appeals applies to the current activities of the TCMG, and later to those of the IMG. Then the whole problem is solved, isn't it? We also had an interrupting debate on this earlier: that is exactly the law that governs this in general administrative law, with periodic penalty payments and all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yeah, sure. I always appreciate legal help, but that's the way it is. On top of that, however, the other arrangements apply. Mr. Chairman. Other questions have been asked about these practices, such as the presumption of evidence. As far as I am concerned, Mrs Dik-Faber is asking the question in exactly the right way. She literally asks: can other damage, so non-physical damage, hitchhike the evidence? And that's exactly what it is. It is not feasible to apply the presumption of evidence in cases where there is no physical damage. Then someone can say "my store has less sales, and that's because of the seismicity." But if you can't establish that, it's quite complicated; it can also come from internet stores. But the opposite is true. And that is exactly what she says: if the evidence suggests that there is physical damage, then there is seismicity there by gas extraction, and then it is also logical that the subsequent damage to it may be related to turnover, which may be intangible, which may have all kinds of nature. So the evidence suspicion is indeed suitable for other damage to lift on it. That makes the evidence for the other, related forms of damage a lot easier. So that's how it works, and that's how it's gonna work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you to the Minister for this clarification. Does this mean that, if there is intangible damage, such as health damage, people no longer end up in procedures? There's just a lot of stress and trouble in Groningen, because people are stuck in a paper shop. We all know the stories. We know the research of the University of Groningen, which has repeatedly identified it. I understand that it is very difficult to apply the evidence suspicions to this matter, but if people do have damage, if they are stuck in the paper shop and if they experience health damage, does the Minister say: they do not end up in a fight about who has to pay for the damage and whether they are eligible for it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u102	I should not be tempted to explain a non-material damage scheme that does not yet exist here when I am not dealing with it myself. In any case, the intangible damage scheme should be a scheme that does not burden people with a lot of hassle. That'd be something. This means that we are burdening the most vulnerable people with most administrative procedures. I therefore believe that, even if there is no evidence, this should simply be a procedure that is easily accessible. That's what the quartermaster IMG is working on. I do, however, ask that is precisely the answer to the question 'that other forms of damage, intangible damage, but also turnover damage or whatever, can lift the suspicion of evidence.' In any case, we don't like the intangible damage regime becoming a paperwork. That's true anyway. Next, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mrs. Dik-Faber, finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u104	Yeah, rounding up and very practical. I understand that a scheme for intangible damage is being worked out. When will it be ready, and can the Chamber also take note of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u105	I'm just gonna mark this. I'm gonna take a really hard look at the back benches! In the second period, I should like to comment on the timing of the intangible damage scheme,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u106	Well, you've got the wind out of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u107	I have to yell really loud to get something done. It's a good thing I don't have a dog, because the neighbors wouldn't sleep anymore. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. Mr Van der Lee made a very clever speech on this subject. He wonders what is against it, because views of the parties can collide anyway, there is no mixing between the columns and the injured person can report to another column. So there would be a battle between the columns anyway. He also says, "What's against consultation?" The point is that this consultation is also there. Look, questions of law are settled by the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court by mutual agreement. It's not new either. Application of civil law by the administrative judge is nothing new. There are all kinds of procedures in which the supreme administrative court applies the rules of civil law. That's the order of the day. So there is this consultation. The question here is whether there should be formal questions for a preliminary ruling. For this, I must rely on people who have made this their profession, including my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. He says that this is a very fundamental choice to let the columns control their own column. The law remains hygienic when the person at the top of a column can ultimately set the most authoritative case law on what is happening in that column. He says, on the basis of this proposal, that you will end up in a fundamental discussion if you want to mix it. We should not do that in this context, but possibly in another context. The Minister for Legal Protection is preparing a proposal with legal unitary measures. He says that this discussion should be conducted in this context. Here I am satisfied with my answer that we are not going to do so in this context. On the other hand, these issues are resolved by mutual agreement. I would also like to inform the various parties that this is expected to be resolved, otherwise we will be passing differences between legal columns on to Groningers. And that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u108	I hear the beginning of a lead, but here's the thing. It is said here that the Minister of Justice does not want the columns mixed together. The joke is that the shift of columns, from civil law to administrative law, has just come about with this law. Before this arrangement was in place, this went through the NAM. By the way, questions referred for a preliminary ruling could be referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling and an opinion could be sought from the Supreme Court. This has been very helpful for people who have been injured in Groningen, for example in the question of fear damage. There were very concrete examples of very concrete questions that the lower court could put to the highest court. We have now cut through that advice, because we have invented something in the Temporary Law Groningen. Now the Minister says: we are not going to mix one column with another, of course. That's the world upside down. It started somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u109	No, no, look, it's not weird or new that civil-law considerations are made in the administrative column. That's not new. What would be very new, and what my colleague sees as a fundamental discussion he wants to have in another context, is when a supreme judge in one column suddenly answers a question for a preliminary ruling and thereby creates a kind of case law for the other column. That's new, because everyone's boss in their own column. That's the legal adage. So I say that there is no problem, because there is this consultation, but at the same time I have no legal mandate to say so now. However, I can refer to the more fundamental discussion that the Minister for Legal Protection has in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr President, we are not here yet. This really started because it went from civil law to administrative law, while it is civil rights, such as determining damage and compensation for damage. If that is the case and we decide here to take it to the administrative court, then it is very strange that you do not say: we build in that you can keep unity of law for typical civil law questions by referring them to the highest court, namely the Supreme Court. We're gonna get rid of that right now. The Minister says: yes, that also makes sense, because you want to keep it in that column. Yeah, if you put it in that column first, you're creating your own problem. We are just offering the opportunity to solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u111	No, if we switch to another column, then there is another highest body to which these questions are asked. Those questions can still be asked. It is still discussed, but the one who makes the formal statement is not the head of one column, but the head of the other column. We've moved this to another column, and that includes another highest organ. That has a certain logic. So let me just say this about my position in this. I am standing here talking about the ideas of the real, fundamental lawyers in this world. I have great respect for that. Look, if we, as engineers, think that something needs to be fixed, we'll grab a welding device and we'll weld it to it. I like Mr. Sienot's attitude very much, but I don't have a welding machine in this field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u112	Again, there's a lead. Let's see how we can work this out. For me, the focus is on the Groninger, which we do not want to deprive of rights, but to give rights. In this case, it is certainly desirable, so if we could get there, it would be worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u113	I would like to continue with this in another way. The whole reason for this law is a unique situation. We're gonna do something very special. We are going to make something public in private law, in a way where the costs are returned to the private party. That's totally unique. At the same time, it is so unique that these two legal proceedings remain possible. Civilian questions have already been answered for a preliminary ruling in the past and this can still be done in the future because there will still be people who do not trust the Institute and choose to match them on their own route. That unity of justice can't guarantee anyone in this trial. Most likely there will still be these collisions between the columns. If such a unique arrangement is already made here, a unique arrangement could be made in this case as far as the unity of law is concerned. I would ask the Minister to take this up with his colleague. What is really my purpose with the amendment? We can also talk about how to formulate it legally the best? is that you give the administrative judge Northern Netherlands the room to make a decision: am I going to my natural hierarchy in my column or is there any particular reason to visit the other column? That space would, I think, be profitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u114	That request room is here. That is different from a question for a preliminary ruling. There is a mutual consultation on legal unit questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u115	Yes, but that administrative judge may need a preliminary ruling on a specific point of civil law. Why is that? Because it may be that in the situation we are creating now there are people who are already partly in civil law because they have a case running, but they have new damages that they want to try to manage through the institute, because they may have more confidence that it will work that way. Then you're gonna have cases that touch both columns, aren't you? Because we are already making so many exceptions, I do not see why we cannot make that exception for this particular situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u116	That is because whoever is responsible in the Cabinet, the Minister for Legal Protection, does not want to have this fundamental discussion in this context and does not want to take that step in this context either, because he does not think that this is a sensible way of doing things. Mr Van der Lee can then make all kinds of speeches, which I also appreciate. I also see his logic. I've already honored his logic. I can also imagine anything as a private person, but this is a point that lies with someone else in the cabinet. I'm honoring that point of view. We've got a little work to do here. But I still do not understand a point from Mr Van der Lee's speech. I report that the Minister for Legal Protection has informed me that the legal unit questions are already being resolved by mutual agreement. That's the goal. If we think about it as engineers, then the objective is achieved and only the formal status of the question referred for a preliminary ruling has not been achieved here. But, yes, why do you make an effort to do that when you have achieved the goal? So that is the one point in Mr Van der Lee's speech that I do not understand. But this is my position and it is determined by someone who is going to have this fundamental discussion in another context. Of course, Mr Van der Lee, as a parliamentarians, has been invited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u117	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u118	I do not know that route from the Minister for Legal Protection, but we are on our own path and we are also getting an additional legislative proposal. Is it possible to clarify this in the intervening period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u119	Yes, I do. Then I will ask the Minister for Legal Protection to entrust me with a small opinion on this subject with some kind of procedural proposal on how that other route is going to run, and I will forward it to you. Mr. Chairman. There is another important set of questions that I understand and those questions are about the fall in value. That decrease in value is a type of damage that we are going to add to the IMG. That doesn't have anything charitable, that's just damage. Period. Damage must be compensated. A committee has come to a conclusion. To what extent does that determine? That committee has studied this very carefully. It's not that committee that decides how it's gonna go. It's not Eric Wiebes who decides how it's gonna go. It is not even the parliamentarians who decide how it will go. It is the IMG that, reading this advice, determines how that should go. Now several spokesmen have made it clear that they have sympathy, either in substance or in other terms, for that proposal of the Stichting WAG, for all kinds of different reasons. What is happening now is that the model of that foundation was not yet available in the preparation of the advice that could be a basis for the IMG. So that's not taken into account. That was still under development at the time. Now let's try to make it as orderly as possible. I would imagine that I would suggest to the quartermaster of the IMG to ask the committee that has previously advised to make an appreciation of that model, with, of course, an explanation and an appreciation of the differences between the different models, so that the IMG is then able to weigh different models and aspects of models against each other over the full width. I think we should. Then it is also up to the IMG to provide text and explanation, if it comes with a final judgment on how this should be settled, but then we have a consideration of the full width, if the IMG would like to take my beck seriously. I think it's easier to accept that something comes out of it. It may be that this is not the proposal of that advisory committee, or rather, not that of the Stichting WAG, but that is the way it is. That makes it more satisfying to eventually add us to what comes out. What comes out of it may also be a mixture of models, because in the end the IMG deals with it as a semi-jurisdiction. That would be my proposal. Then it is also up to people themselves in that time frame whether they are waiting for it, or whether they are waiting for the outcome of court proceedings. Their law doesn't evaporate. If people think "well, I still don't believe anything about it; I'll wait for a court ruling," then so can I. Retrospectively correcting things won't work. That'll get me into the swamp. Then the execution is completely unopposed. I'm not gonna ask the IMG. This is legally very vulnerable, but it is also operational. But I do think it is important, now that an important party has expressed itself socially in favour of a model and has also provided a basis for this, to take this seriously and to appreciate it. So it would be my proposal to deal with this in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u120	In any case, thank you for this commitment, but in my view we are not there yet. I actually hear the minister say: imagine that the judge finally makes a certain ruling that is more favourable to the injured than the ruling that the duped with all those combinations of models had at the IMG. That is the situation we are talking about. And then the Minister says: then it becomes so difficult in implementation that we cannot even it out. I think that's a really weird story. Could the Minister be a little more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u121	The right, in this case the right to compensation, always develops. Again and again there are new insights, over the years. Again and again, the latest case law is taken as the basis for the new decisions. It is nonsense on all sides, but also operationally a tragedy, to do so retroactively. I'm dealing with an organization that has to adjust all sails to deal with a lot of damage. That's just the physical damage. It's thousands, tens of thousands of cases. They all have to be settled and I make it a complete mess, legally but also operationally, when I make these kinds of commitments. To meet Mrs Mulder: on the other hand, people can choose not to make their own claims. They can also wait until after the trial. It could go down, but it could go up. So people are free to wait for that, and their claim doesn't evaporate. They have the right to do so. So if they're thinking "it's all right, but I'd rather sit after the court ruling," then that's possible. That's a choice. I don't think everyone's gonna claim right away. I think all kinds of people are thinking, "Let's wait and see." It's possible. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u122	Still, you like to take care of people. You rigged a special agency for it, the IMG. That's gonna have to pay for all the damage. This is damage that people are already suffering. Then you actually say: maybe you should join the WAG procedure, because maybe it will get higher. Then you'd better not use your right now. Is that what the Minister is saying today? I don't think that's a pretty picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u123	I'm not offering to reconsider things with retroactive effect. I'm not gonna be able to do that. It's irresponsible, not legally. I am not in the lead to use all legal arguments immediately, but this is just not going to work. What I can do is take it into consideration, or ask IMG to take it with me. These are new commitments, because I think they are reasonable and because Members have pointed this out to me. Then the latest insights about all these models have been taken into account in the decision-making process. It is also possible to wait until the end of the trial. But a retroactive force clause? I'm making a huge mess of things. That's not gonna happen. It's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u124	There is often talk of generosity when it has to be compensated, because the misery is already so great. A lot of Groningers couldn't hear that word "beautiful" in the long run. Wouldn't it be generous to fill it in anyway if people just got the best outcome of those two models reasonably developed by different scientists? Wouldn't that be an essential part of a generous compensation once in a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u125	In my opinion, a fundamental interpretation of the concept of 'fair-minded' is that the opinion given to the quartermaster by this committee contained an additional percentage of generosity. That's what was in there; they've given it a lot of thought. They might not have done that in other cases, but they have done so here. I'm not gonna stand here and lose that commission. They have given this a lot of thought and they have built a substantial generosity into their model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u126	I acknowledge that. They've made a calculation, and on top of that, they've done a plus in that model. Then another one is wrong and says: yes, the criteria on which that model was made... Every model has its flaws. I know that as an economist, and the Minister as an engineer knows that. Surely it would be sad if people had suffered damage but were not eligible? The consequence of a model is that you make an approach and that there will always be cases that do not fall under it. I am pleased that the Minister is putting that down, but I would also like him to give the generosity of the various approaches to the Institute: what is the best thing for the people? Of course, in a reasonable way, and those models are both very reasonably composed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u127	I'm gonna ask IMG to take it into broader consideration. It is also a fact that there is generosity in this remuneration. I also think we should see that a model... Look, we were here six months ago. We said at the time that we all tried to do it far too precisely and that this caused a great deal of delay. There was at the time because of the great trauma that led to that precision in the calculations, in this and that, and in the fixing of sister and so on. This model is irrevocably less precise. I think you should be able to rely on a model that is indeed less precise but much faster than all that customization for 99% of cases, but at the same time you should be able to have situations where you say: this is so different; if you compare that one percent too, then you have created another unreasonable situation. One part of the opinion is that if it is clearly a different situation, you should be able to do customization for that. That was in that opinion and we are going to wait and see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u128	Can we get to a second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u129	Well, I have a few things left. Mr Nijboer asked me about the old damage. That criticism of the Groninger Soil Movement has surprised me somewhat, because they have been involved in the whole, I have been reported on all sides. There is room for all kinds of parties to think with. That criticism was new. The King's Commissioner also experienced it as a new criticism. Any party who has been able to go to the arbitrator or to the judge has been able to obtain his or her right in another way. This is an arrangement which is intended for people who have really been nowhere else to be found. Others did not fall out of the boat, but fell into another boat. At present, about 50 cases have applied. That's something that's being looked at seriously. Mr Van Otterloo stressed once again that he felt that the evidence was at the national point of contact. I would point out to him that the numbers are totally uneven. I just reported that we settled 28,000 Groningen claims this year, excluding what the NAM did. This is 15 or 20. That is such a different order; a reverse burden of proof is simply not justified. In social terms, it is a strange arrangement to make such an exception for such a limited number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u130	I was not concerned with the numbers, but with the position of those who have suffered damage. I am concerned about the position of an individual citizen vis-à-vis a large organisation. That is why I have argued in favour of applying it there as well. I did not do that because of the similarity of numbers or not, but because of the position of the person suffering the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u131	But we have another solution for that. Now I fully understand Mr Van Otterloo. He says: 'Wait a minute, are we going to accept elsewhere in the country that someone has to sue against a multinational, even if there have only been 15 or 20 cases?' No, because we are going to set up a nationwide point of contact in which the injured are also being taken care of. It is not through the presumption of evidence, but there is still an independent person who looks at the damage and takes the burden of proof and the burden of proof off the shoulders of the injured party. That is what this is all about, and if Mr Van Otterloo has that in mind, the solution is this one as far as I am concerned. For I fully agree with him again: we do not find anything that is not housebroken, nor do we find it housebroken when it comes to only fifteen or twenty cases. Mr Nijboer, but also Mrs Beckerman, asked about the future position of Stut-en-Steun. The financing of this organisation is once again guaranteed for 2020 and 2021. I come at the end of this deadline to the amendments, but I still have a lot of questions to answer. I'm gonna try to do it real fast, Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Harbers' question on the consultative body, stakeholders and civil society organisations has been answered. I will respect his request for speed. It's going to the Council of State now. We've already gone over the case counselors. Mrs Beckerman asked about the state of play in target groups policy. Decisions have been taken on different "target groups specials." That's what it's called, but what kind of weird terms are they? It's just about farmers, monuments, and so on. There are about 1,200 and there are 2,200 in all kinds of stages of the procedure. There are also separate people employed for it, I think just in the third quarter of last year. They must all be able to be served with that specific expertise. Mrs Beckerman also asks me what guarantees there are for the number and quality of the experts. Well, basically people pass. But, yes, that is where Mrs Beckerman, perhaps without her realizing it, puts a finger in a difficult place, because we are very difficult to get people. I would love to have more people and I would also love to have more experts in specific areas. However, they are difficult to obtain, but we continue to make efforts. As I said earlier, the speed will not only come from the increase in staff, but also from smarter work. There are no other options. There are no exceptions to that hardness clause. All target groups or locations can make use of this. Whether or not that profession is being honored is not up to me again. Mrs Beckerman says that the position of the disadvantaged seems to be weakening, but I would like to contradict that. Or should I say I'm trying to reassure her? The counter-expertise is something from the old box and played at the NAM. Because the NAM didn't have an administrative column. So you were standing alone in front of that multinational and then you could ask for a counter-expertise. At the TCMG, we solved it differently last year. Of course you have the normal possibilities of objection. And the TCMG works independently anyway; that already helps. And you also have the opportunity to present a view there. You can even involve your own expert and you can also ask for a fee for that. So it's solved in a different way, but it has a much better security than it used to be. Stut-en-Steun: roles are formalized in the provincial decision and funding is regulated. Civil society organisations remain involved. Überhaupt a Zbo is obliged by law to provide social accountability. I think the TCMG does that in a very recruiting way. The proposal does not put the Special Situations Committee in a different position. In fact, I reported at the end of last year that I believe that it should also be completely distanced from the NAM and the funding rerouted. I'm not over the Independent Councilman yet. We had an Independent Councilman because there was no Ombudsman working and because the ombud function is a public function, while it is a matter of private law. So we had to do some sort of trick, and that became the Councilman. Mr Klaassen has done an excellent job. I've also had him on the phone recently for a case. But strictly speaking, there is no need anymore. At the same time, it is someone who has done a very good job. The conversation with him is about how to proceed. We try to make more use of the counsellors and beyond the columns. So I hope it won't be true that the position is getting worse on just one point. The NAM doesn't pay the organization, because I don't want there to be any influence in any way. We are indeed covering this from the state budget. I cannot estimate the probability that the NAM will object to the tax or appeal. I don't have any signs of that. I spoke to the various shareholders the other day. I didn't get any signals about that. Of course I'm not the NAM, so you never know for sure, but I don't see anything coming on the horizon that would be threatening for funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u132	I myself am enthusiastic about this Independent Counselor and I believe that this is also the case in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u133	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u134	I would say to the Minister: count your blessings, because a lot of these organizations have come and gone. The Minister is now giving a very cryptic answer. Theoretically, it should no longer be possible, because you have the Ombudsman and sister and so on. There is broad appreciation for the work he does and everyone knows that in Groningen there is still misery. Whether they are businesses or SMEs or people who end up between shore and ship and come in the door with their fingers crossed. Is the Minister prepared to retain that free position which Mr Klaassen, or the Independent Councilman, held as a position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u135	I'm not saying no to that, but I'm not saying yes to that. We have, of course, had the right to criticize in the past, and we have seen it appear on television that there were so many institutions. Several of them have been rolled up, by the way. But not this one. I'm just talking to Mr Klaassen about that. I acknowledge that this man has done a great deal of good work, also recently, in all kinds of concrete cases. So I'm also very positive about it, but just let me think about it. Let us include Mr Nijboer's appeal in the Acts, and I shall come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u136	Of course, we're just sitting in the room. Next week, when I say 'I'm not saying no, but I'm not saying yes', the Minister is also looking strangely. We're just having a debate here. Questions have been asked about it. The Minister has given a vague answer. I'd like some clarity. I think there is a majority in the Chamber to keep this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u137	Whatever majorities there are, we're gonna find out. I say here that I recognise the extremely useful role this man has played in all kinds of fields. We all recognise here that the position is miraculous because it is now covered by the Ombudsman. Nevertheless, we can all imagine someone working in this region. I don't have a prescription for that yet. I made this request to the Chamber. Let me think. I'll get back to you on that. If I come up with something you don't like, we'll talk about it. But here, from behind this chair, suddenly to think that we're going to do this; I haven't even talked to the person about the exact continuation. So I have heard the call with kindness. Let me just come up with a proposition after I talk to this person. Is that okay? I'm not gonna have all these views on that right now. I'm hoping for some time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u138	That is always the point we come to: wait and see. We do have the debate today. The Prime Minister was here once at a debate on Groningen. He then apologized for the point that it became a legal reality. Now this minister says: we stop with the Ombudsman who supports Groningers, we stop with the Independent Councilman, because we deal with it legally differently. That's exactly the big problem in Groningen, isn't it? This is someone who stands up for the inhabitants. Just say clip-and-ready: yes, we'll make sure that goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u139	I'm not saying that at all. I say that I am talking, that I have heard it correctly, that I am also enthusiastic about the work, but that I have no proposal yet and that I come up with a proposal. What's weird about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u140	That's weird because we're treating the law today. We're dealing with the law on damage today. In that law on damage, in the documents on it, it says this is gonna go away. That is why I raised this point. This was an answer to my question. It is therefore strange that the Minister should not reconsider this until after we vote on such a law. You just haven't finished your homework. This should have been said today. So it's very unfortunate that you haven't spoken to him. I would indeed apologize for that. I would like to say this now, and I would apologize to Mr Klaassen and say: excuse me if I have not spoken to you in time. You're just late, Minister! That's impossible, isn't it? We are dealing with this law today and we want this answer today. I would really like to hear the Minister's basic commitment to the continued existence of this Independent Councilman. I already have a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u141	The formal role ends, but that does not mean that the person ends or that a role cannot be fulfilled. Let me just look for something that would be a good idea. I am not going to suddenly come up with a twist on a person with whom I have not had a dialogue. That's ridiculous, isn't it? We all recognise that this person has done extremely good work on many fronts. I've been able to determine that myself. There is also a need for people who can be oilmen in all kinds of ways and bring things together. I recognize all that, but to speak out now about a role without it being clear... I promise you that I will come back to that with a proposal, and then we will hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u142	A little more precise on this point. In a comment from the Ministry during the consultation process, something was said about this, but it says that the Independent Councilman remains competent and can continue to receive complaints. That's probably aimed at the civil-law trajectory. That remains because people can still walk that route and do so in the future. In addition, it is said that it does not make sense in the administrative process, because that is what the Ombudsman is for. I understand. My suggestion to the Minister would be: talk mainly to Mr Klaassen, but perhaps it is an idea to at least agree with him for the next two years that he will continue to play his role and that he will certainly continue to do so in the civil process because the Ombudsman is not about that. Then we can use the law's evaluation in hand to see if it will still be necessary by then. I would like to give that suggestion to the Minister. I would also like an answer to the question as to whether it is the case with this law that he has nothing more to say in a formal sense, because that is not how I read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u143	Let me do my homework with all these suggestions and come up with a proposal. The fact that it does not make sense in exactly the same role is, I think, a fact, but that this will end the work of someone who has done good work is not yet a fact. I come with a proposal and I take Mr Van der Lee's suggestions with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u144	I had also asked questions about this issue. I would suggest to the Minister that he make a suggestion in the second term. I think it is a very elegant proposal that in two years' time, when we have that evaluation, we will see whether it is still necessary and that people will still be able to turn to Mr Klaassen. I don't think that's much more than reasonable. Before we throw away old shoes because we think we have new shoes, let's just keep Mr. Klaassen. He's important to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u145	I hear the call, but I haven't figured that out in the second term. The call is clear. I also agree that we have no reason to throw away old shoes if the new ones aren't working yet. I think that's a wise advice. But let me come up with a proposal for that. I cannot now give my opinion on something that is ultimately about an individual on one evening in the second term in the Chamber. I'm really out of line with that. I find that uncourteous. I shouldn't do that. It's about a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u146	Very good. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u147	I come to a point made by Mr Van der Lee which I have had difficulty looking at. We all know that there is still a great deal to be desired in the area of strengthening. But I'd like to make this a little less simple. He says, "It's gonna be judged." I don't believe that. I have rarely had legal discussions about strengthening in the last two years. Yeah, once, about the Procurement Act. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Die heb ik opzijgezet.]] It's not that legal. It's technically very complex. There are a huge number of parties involved. We've all been there, all for good reason. But that makes it extraordinary, extremely complex. That's not legal. In any case, with so many parties, there is almost a veto culture. It is a discussion on operational issues that sometimes even runs through the media or the Chamber. It is extremely complex to pull this in its new form. But I wouldn't call it legal. I wish. Then it was simple. I have already promised to continue with all the figures on the progress of the damage settlement, hopefully in further improved form. But there will also be an annual report, I say in the direction of Mr Van der Lee. I can imagine something in case of a faster evaluation, but there is now an amendment to that effect. I'll get to that. I hope Mrs Mulder will be convinced that the position is not going to get any worse and that, of course, we will let the IMG decide for itself which people they accept. We don't do that for them. No way. That's not the point. I think I've already said something about the Gasberaad's suggestion about the customer journey. Then about the idea of Building the Netherlands about an apk for every five years. I don't know if I should do that to the organization right now. Perhaps that at a later stage, if seismicity is greatly reduced, is quite an idea. But now it's really about enabling BZK to turn that case, now that the recordings are running, quickly into work. The extra attention for the other groups of damage detectors has resulted in an influx of new employees. In the first quarter of 2020, the arbitrator thinks he will also be out with the very last cases. Those are the most complex cases. I've gone into the counter-expertise. In the event of physical damage, no target groups are excluded from the law. It is asked whether this is also about loss of value and intangible damage. Yeah, that goes for that, too. The matchmaking opportunities. I just talked about that when I was talking about that one window. I also gave a number of examples. At the request of Mr Van der Lee, we have now given a more detailed explanation of this for the examination of the strengthening law. The re-evaluation of previously rejected injury. Any damage that has not yet been decided may be dealt with by the IMG. People are asking if the staff is really independent. We don't control it and we don't decide who it's gonna be. I'm not in charge of that, but the funding is being taken care of. An important and interesting point, however, is new; therefore, I need to think about it for a moment. I was with someone the other day who said, "We've had three cracks in this wall over the last five years. They're only small cracks, but every time you think, "Yes." The person asked if there is anything to come up with then maybe that wasn't possible the first time you already look at the way of repairing the recording, because it affects how quickly damage comes back. For example, you think of glass fibre wallpaper or constructions that hold a wall together or give some flexibility. I do not think this should be included in the inclusion, but this can be taken into account in the recovery. I'm just gonna talk to the quartermaster about that. The people I've been with, those of those three times, had been visibly helped with a very simple solution, namely glass fibre wallpaper. You won't see the hair tears again. As the owner of an old house, I can't stress the blessings of fiberglass wallpaper enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u148	It was, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr Kops asked who decides on the continuation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u150	He's gone home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u151	That's what next governments and chambers do. I have taken Mrs Dik-Faber's questions into account as well as possible. Mr Sienot's questions, too, if that's all right. Of course, the fifteen months should not be in any way decisive. The goal of the quartermaster himself is six months. We've just been talking about the acceleration, and we've been talking about the compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr Sienot on this point. Sorry to miss you, Mrs Mulder, but this concerns Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u153	I actually asked another question about temporaryity. How temporary is the Temporary Law Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u154	That is right; that question has been asked three times, also by Mr Van Otterloo: how temporary is temporary? There's nothing to say about that now. As long as it takes, it's necessary. People always ask me: when will the backup stop? Then I'll say, "If you don't have to do it anymore." People remain entitled to reinforcement and damage recovery as long as that damage occurs. I can't predict that very well. Also the SodM, who occasionally sits at my table, says: we don't know that, but we have to keep arrangements in the air as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u155	The Minister made a commitment to the Chamber about that customer journey. He said that's what we're getting for dealing with the reinforcements bill. I had explicitly asked the Minister whether the positive points from, for example, the Own Initiative and Heft in Eigen Hand were taken into account. I think that's important. The same applies to the criticism the Gasberaad had during the internet consultation on the law on strengthening. Because I really want our people to be the centre of attention again, and they are very concerned that they are and are not being taken into account in this system. I share those concerns, and I hope the Minister will promise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u156	Let me put it this way: I am not going to call my colleague responsible for this. I promise on his behalf to take these things with me. I will have to discuss the substance of this matter with him, but we are in the same cabinet, so I make this commitment and hope that my colleague does not get angry about it. I think he welcomes Mrs Mulder's suggestions with gratitude. Do other groups receive compensation, for example for sales damages? For example, we are talking about entrepreneurs and farmers. Yeah, that's damage, too. The limitation period arrangements also apply to these groups. So there's no statute of limitations. Let me now turn to the amendments. The amendment in part No. 14 is about the hardness clause. That is an amendment by Mrs Mulder and Mr Van der Lee. This I leave to judge Chamber. I have just gone into detail on the amendment to item No. 16. I have to discourage it for that reason. I would therefore point out that the consultation does not only exist, but that I also pass on to the parties who are attached to it. Then there is the amendment to item No. 18. I can imagine doing the first evaluation after two years. This I leave to judge Chamber. The substance of the amendment in respect of item No. 19, I think it's neat. I'll leave the judgment room. Then there is the amendment to item No. 20. That's extremely complicated. I would add that I have to advise against it, but I have to write to it about the precise reasons. It's a good question, and on a good question comes a letter. I'll explain. But I have to say here that I'm deceiving it in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u157	And that letter comes before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u158	Um... Yeah, that's a good one. It's not easy to hold on to an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u159	It should be clear that this is not about the position of the disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u160	We're gonna try. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u161	It's about the position, the relationship between the State and the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u162	That's clear. I see that this is a reasonable request. The amendment in part No. Mrs Mulder's 21 opinion on the experts is left to the House. The amendment in part No. 22 on the provision of data is, in my view, in line with what we consider feasible. I'll leave that to judge Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I shall then be through the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u163	No, we are missing the amendment in part No. 12 more, if I'm not mistaken. That is an amendment by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u164	It's been revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u165	Oh, that's moved in. Then we've lost again with quartets. Yeah, it's chaos here, total chaos. But it is the first parliamentary working day of the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u166	Yeah, come and apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u167	Escapes! Very good. I see we're done with the first term. Is there a need for a second term? You don't have to. One representative's already gone home. There is a need for a second deadline. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Harbers. I hope it all can be short and pointy, because otherwise I really have to take a dinner break. It's hanging like a thunder cloud over this debate room. I call Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mr President, thank you. I can make it quick. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. I would like to highlight two more points. One is the pragmatic approach. I hope that not everything is put into standards. There was just another debate in 15 months: no, we mean six months and everything is set up on that. I will be supporting a motion from a colleague on this matter. But, of course, where it can be faster, it has to be faster. That's the point of my question about such a counselor. If you make a phone call to him when you find something hanging on something small, you have to be able to act equally. That should probably happen on the call floor the minister was talking about. I think that is the type of pragmatism we are looking for in the new institute and with which last year's reservoir regulation also achieved results. Finally. In the first term, I have already said that, of course, it is not all about damage. In the future, it will also be about strengthening and, above all, combining a good approach to the treatment of damages and strengthening. I believe that every effort must be made to ensure that not only for us here in the Chamber, but above all for all those Groningers, we are convinced that in 2020 the transformation can really take place. In this respect, we look forward with great interest to the forthcoming law on reinforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you. Then Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u170	Mr. Chairman. In my view, this was not the debate to be held. I think we all know that. We should have been talking about a crisis approach that would be completed and that should prevent social disruption from increasing. We should have talked about integrating damage and strengthening. We have not been able to have that debate today, because that work is not yet finished. That's actually very sad, so many years after the call came to make sure of that. It is almost surreal that Minister Wiebes later describes 2019 as "year of implementation." How big can the gap between the Hague reality and the Groningen reality be for those who are still waiting? Mr President, I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are strong parallels between the way in which the government dealt with the corrupted Groningers and those accused of fraud in the premium affair;]] [[noting that the victims will receive €500 in the supplement case for each six months that they will have to wait too long for compensation;]] [[noting that the TCMG now has a penalty clause for when the injured have to wait too long, but that it is missing from the Temporary Law of Groningen;]] [[calls on the government to pay the injured Groningers, as well as those who have suffered from the tax administration's surcharge affair, if they have to wait too long,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns the Independent Counselor. I think that's really poignant. This is an institution which has done important work and which is now disappearing or at least no longer has the power to decide on the damage in due course; that is unclear. The Minister doesn't want to commit to that. The Minister just did it too late. I think we should say today that we want it to continue. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in recent years, injured Groningers had to compete unequally with the NAM (Shell and Exxon);]] [[Whereas the weaker position of the injured is also vis-à-vis the public authorities;]] [[noting that the Independent Councilman has played an important role;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Independent Councillor the power to rule on the settlement of claims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u172	Then I come to my third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that supervisor SodM has advised that the damage handling and reinforcement operation in the Groningen earthquake area should be dealt with as a crisis;]] [[Whereas they conclude that if this does not happen, the social disruption resulting from gas extraction in Groningen will continue to increase;]] [[noting that neither the present law nor the law on strengthening are adopting a crisis approach;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a crisis approach combining and strengthening damages and self-initiating victims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u173	Mr. Chairman. My last motion concerns something that we did not discuss in this debate because it cannot, because the Chamber still has too little information about it, namely about the sensor network. It's already being dismantled. I would ask the Minister to pause that until the Chamber has been able to discuss it. That's a very simple request. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the NAM stops the sensor network in Groningen;]] [[Whereas residents with a sensor have a ten-year contract, of which only five have expired;]] [[noting that residents with a sensor have not been heard about stopping the measuring network and at least 25 residents refuse to have the sensor removed;]] [[noting that earthquake Professor Ihsan Bal has indicated his intention to take over and adapt the network;]] [[calls on the government to pause the dismantling of the sensor network and first to inform the Chamber of the possibilities of continuing the network,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I would also like to thank my fellow Members. I thought this was a good debate in which we were given a little more clarity on a number of details, but not on some of them. That's too bad. However, the Minister has made a number of commitments to provide some more information. I would like to deal specifically with one issue, and I have a motion for a resolution on it. This is linked to the amendment tabled by Mr Sienot, of which I am a co-signator. Since we cannot keep that amendment, we will withdraw it. That's what Mr. Sienot's gonna do. We do, however, reserve the opportunity to come up with that again at the time of the draft law on reinforcement. In order to be able to discuss it properly, this motion should be tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Law of Groningen provides that the court may refer questions to the Administrative Court of the Council of State;]] [[noting that the administrative court may also be confronted with a question of civil law;]] [[Whereas it may therefore be useful to provide for the possibility of bringing civil law questions before the Supreme Court;]] [[calls on the government to discuss this with both the Supreme Court and the Council of State, and to report on it to the Chamber before the legislative proposal for strengthening is discussed in plenary in the Lower House,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u177	I would like to return to the independent position of this Zbo. I am pleased that the Minister has said on many points and has also stressed that he assumes that the methodology and everything related to it, as we know from the TCMG, is, in principle, expected to be continued by the Institute. That must also enrich and expand it so that it can and will handle more damage. I also recognise that a great deal of important work has been done in terms of damage. Fortunately, therefore, the Minister immediately says that much more needs to be done and that the pace must be increased. I see that and I acknowledge it. Then the year of implementation. Of course that is also connected with the reinforcement operation and it really shows a different picture. I also believe that 'the year of implementation' did not bring about what was suggested at least at the beginning. I have said before that it may not have been wise to use that word, but that aside. We still had a discussion about the role of the Independent Councilman. I thank Mrs Beckerman for zooming in on this after all. I had read in particular that he remains competent for the civil part. I have listened carefully to Mrs Beckerman's motion, which calls not only for him to remain, but also for a role in the public sector, where an Ombudsman can also operate. I had a suggestion on this, which I shall put in a motion. In doing so, I would point out that I see the role of that counsellor mainly on the civil-law trajectory, which will always continue to exist. In the evaluation, we are going to look at whether that is still necessary, whether there are such things and whether we should continue with that role after that, yes or no. That's the background to the motion. I shall read it out and perhaps then I can answer Mrs Beckerman's question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to maintain the Independent Councilman until the next evaluation of the Institute for Mining Damage in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mr. Chairman. I don't quite get it. Would you please arrange this motion now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u179	Will Mr Van der Lee...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u180	Will Mr Van der Lee agree with this motion to allow the Independent Councilman to continue to give his opinion on these damages under administrative law in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u181	Well, I think we're in transition. Since it is now going to be governed by administrative law, there is also a possibility to give the Ombudsman a role in this. I think it is very good that the counsellor and the Ombudsman are discussing this and perhaps the Minister is participating in it. It seems important to me that the counsellor should continue to exist, at least for the civil part, because that route remains open. I also understand the law in such a way that the counsel is still competent there. They will then be able to see by mutual agreement when they transfer what work. Then, in two years' time, we will be able to examine in the evaluation whether we need to change or improve in that situation, or whether we can do it all the way to the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Agnes Mulder from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u183	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for his commitment to the customer journey. Another word for that would be a road map to recovery, but looking at the President it will still be a road map to recovery rather than a customer journey, because that sounds too positive and it is not all that. It is good if the minister who can present to the Chamber for the next legal process, together with his colleague from the Interior, takes all the issues that are important for us and for civil society organisations. We appreciate that there will be. Then what is the relationship to the crisis approach? That is also a question asked by the SodM in the internet consultation of the law on reinforcement. I await the Minister's reply to that. He has said something about it today, but I do not think that is a real sign of a massive crisis approach. Then I have two more motions. The first one is about the damage protocol. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 2018 Harm Protocol is not anchored in the Temporary Law of Groningen;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the position of those affected as described in the 2018 Damage Protocol should not deteriorate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u184	Then it's about the fall in value. I appreciate the Minister's commitment to include that other approach of the WAG in the calculations, and to submit them to the people, so that they can decide for themselves whether or not they want to do so. What I still find difficult is what I actually said in the other motion I have just tabled: the position of the inhabitants must not deteriorate. I do feel like that position is getting worse the moment you're actually being forced to go to court, because you might get better compensation out of it. That doesn't feel right, and hence the next motion, the motion value drop. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the situation may arise that the IMG property owners are sending a decision to compensate for the loss of value due to earthquakes, while at any time this year (or later) the civil court in the claims procedure of Stichting WAG and the housing corporations decides how high that compensation should be;]] [[Considering that the Ministry of EZK advises the IMG to use a different calculation model than the Stichting WAG used in civil proceedings, which could lead to a different remuneration;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly inform the IMG that if civil case law gives rise to a higher remuneration for loss of value, the IMG will therefore grant it and take a further decision on its own initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u185	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u186	Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions. I would like to come back to the little debate we had on the joint handling of the damage and strengthening. That still worries me. I feel like this isn't gonna work itself out. Mrs Mulder also spoke just now about the road map. I think it is very important that there is much more clarity about this. We're gonna get to work, 60 cases are under review. I really hope that we can learn from that and take care of people as much as possible. The Minister said: I see the problem and I acknowledge it, but we do not have a solution today. I do believe that this solution needs to be found. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's positive assessment of my amendment. I hope for broad support in the Chamber as well. I have another motion on one point, which deals with immaterial damage. The suspicion of evidence does not apply for a sec, but it does when there is a direct causal link with physical damage - at least, I heard the Minister say so. But there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. I also hear this from the region. I understand that there will be another kind of protocol, in which the compensation for this immaterial damage will also be further developed. That is why I would like to table this motion today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas gas extraction in Groningen has not only caused damage to buildings, but has also caused intangible damage such as damage to human health;]] [[Considering that the Temporary Law on Groningen aims to compensate generously for all damage caused by gas extraction in Groningen, including intangible damage, loss of value of dwellings and costs incurred by a injured party in order to prove damage;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the IMG, the Institute for Mining Damage, Groningen, to consider whether, in the protocol, intangible damage can be considered to be evidence for all forms of damage directly causally related to physical damage to buildings, in particular damage to health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u189	Thank you. I call Mr Sienot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u190	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Thank you also to the Minister for the answers. I think Mrs Beckerman was right to say that we should mainly talk about the law that comes next, the law on strengthening. Then we will also talk more firmly about speeding up. Today we have nevertheless dealt with a necessary law, with an important step: the NAM out. Very good, but now we have to move on. That brings with it a problem, because we organize it differently. The Minister, Mr Van der Lee and I had an interrupting debate on questions for a preliminary ruling. Frankly, I'm still not convinced that we're doing the right thing if we don't fix this, I say to engineer Wiebes. I am pleased that I have tabled a motion together with Mr Van der Lee, with which we have in any case agreed together a development path for how we can solve the problem, which I believe we see together, in such a way that all judges feel that they remain sufficiently in their right, but above all that the defeated Groningers are being helped. Mr President, having said that, I withdraw my amendment to part No. 16 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u191	The Sienot/Van der Lee amendment (Doc. 16) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u192	Here's what I'm gonna do. We want acceleration. For that, it is very important that we look at the lead times. Fifteen months may never be standard, but it is now standard. We can say that we are aiming for six months, but we want to take it a step further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Law of Groningen provides that the decision to compensate for damage may last no later than 15 months;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is committed to dealing with the decision to pay damages within six months, so that the injured party is helped with speed;]] [[calls on the Government to agree on the lead times of the different forms of damage and to report on them in its annual report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Harbers and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u193	Mr. Chairman. I'll close with a happy message. My amendment on generosity has received a positive opinion. I think this is very good, because it's important. You never know what's gonna happen, but you know you always have the law to fall back on. If it says you're being treated generously, it'll help you get a long way in this misery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u194	Thank you. Then Mr Van Otterloo of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am happy to await a positive opinion, I hope, on an amendment relating to another legal element, namely the very complex question of what exactly is the case and whether or not we delete the reference to the Civil Code. I've got two more motions. The first concerns a motion on the temporality of the law, which has not been sufficiently explicit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this Act concerns a temporary law;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the criteria for determining whether the law expires and who determines that it is fulfilled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Otterloo, Van der Lee, Nijboer and Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u196	Then there's a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not sufficiently clear on what grounds the levy decision can be challenged;]] [[calls on the Government to specify the circumstances in which the tax decision imposed on the NAM can be challenged by the State and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Otterloo, Beckerman and Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35250-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It remains bad that damage and reinforcement are still separate from each other, and that people still have to go to two places. Nevertheless, the PvdA Group will vote in favour of this law, because the NAM is now also legally out of the gate and the government assumes responsibility for the damages in Groningen. Just a few more points, Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about compensation for the fall in value. The Minister has promised to highlight the other model, which leads to different outcomes and which allows more people to claim compensation for loss of value. We will, of course, see what the outcome is. We get enough trouble in the county if that's the wrong outcome. Then we'll talk. I would urge the Minister to do the same, but I think he understood that. With regard to the Independent Councilman Groningen, it is the case; the Minister is not going to make any promises anymore. The Chamber can force him to do that on Tuesday. It follows from this law. The Minister is actually saying that the function for the part of the public-law pathway will expire. That's just in the answers to the parliamentary questions. It's not so crazy that the Chamber asks what the position is, because we appreciate him so much. I understand now that we are not getting anywhere with the Minister today, but I do not think that the Chamber has made a very strange request by asking for the counselor to be retained and asking what his role is. That could actually have been done before the legal process, before this plenary session, especially since those questions were put in the preliminary draft. Anyway, it's one time now. I also think that the Chamber will support it, so it will be retained. Finally, with regard to fines. I ask for confirmation that I have understood the Minister correctly. I do not have any motions; I have tabled motions. I'm also the last speaker. You can always come up with one if you've been here for seven years, but that doesn't always make it better. If I have understood the Minister correctly about the fines, and I think that is the case, then people will receive administrative compensation, and also in the current situation, if it takes too long. It's gonna stay that way. At least it is the intention that it stays that way, because the Minister does not want to speak for the judicial organisation. It's gonna stay that way. If that's the case, I think that's the right approach. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If it isn't, I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u198	A warning, go ahead. We're shaking. I'll suspend for ten minutes. I think the Minister's gonna do it, or we're gonna pull something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u199	The Minister has the floor. I hope that we can make it short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u200	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. Mr Harbers called for pragmatism. He's showing himself to be a enlightened liberal. He could have been an engineer, but maybe I'm overreacting right now. I've got two more answers to questions, but I've been looking for them. Administratively, I'm not very strong, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'll get the two leaves with the answers to the questions. I'm gonna start the motions, and then I'm gonna get those questions through the messenger. The motion in part No. 23 on the fine clause, I find problematic. First of all, I'm not in charge. I can hardly stand here celebrating independence first and then telling you what to do. As far as the passage on the Tax Administration is concerned, this concerns intangible damage and not compensation or penalties for delays. So I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 24 and the motion in part No. 28, both of which are about the Independent Counselor. I do not think it is right for me to speak about an institution that coincides with an individual that I have not yet spoken about his personal ambitions and whose role I do not yet have a clear one. I think it is a nice and understandable request, but I would ask the authors of both motions to hold the motions until I come up with a note on whether and how I would see a future for the Independent Councillor, even after I have looked into it and talked to the person myself. That would be my request and otherwise I have to discourage the motions, which does not express what I may think at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u201	I find it annoying for the Independent Councilman that it is now under pressure of time, because I really see that as a mistake on the part of the Minister. Could the Minister send that note for the moment that this is to be voted on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u202	No, I can't do it that fast. Otherwise, I'd find that uncourteous. I don't need to push people through the Chamber. I'm not gonna dawdle, but I'd like to think about it. Then I come with a note, not in six months' time, and then the next vote seems to me to be a very good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u203	Yeah, but we're voting on the law a little earlier, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u204	I'm having a little trouble with it because it's really under this law. So I'm going to put my motion to the vote now. The Minister can make a statement of principle. If the institute of independent counsel comes up with good arguments, then we can always reconsider it later. That seems to me to be the most logical order. It's part of this law. We shall be voting on this next week. It is very unfortunate that the Minister has not done his homework, but that is no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u205	But then that motion is simply dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u206	I am prepared to give the Minister a little more time, but with the agreement that it will be within a month or at least before the First Chamber deals with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u207	Okay, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u208	I think nothing in itself needs to be changed in the law, but that there is certainty seems to me to be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u209	Yeah, I guess so. This would be my commitment if the motion in part No. 28 may be detained. Then I find it sad ending before the motion in part no. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u210	At the request of Mr Van der Lee, I propose his motion (35250, No. 28). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u211	The motion in part No. 24 I must then advise against, which is not necessarily the feeling that I have there. The motion in part No. 25 calls for a crisis approach to be adopted. We have this debate in dealing with the Damage Act. So I would also like to suggest to the authors that we hold this motion until the debate on strengthening, then discuss it and then put the motion to the vote. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u212	Then it's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u213	Then the motion to part No. 26. I am not happy that we are now threatening to keep a sensor network in the air if, according to the SodM, that network has no added value and it makes no sense to have this. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u214	One question, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u215	I think the motion is pretty simple. We are not saying that this network should be kept in the air, but that decommissioning should be suspended. And if we have more information, we can make a weighted assessment. So all they ask for is a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u216	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u217	That simply can't be dissuaded, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u218	But that is a completely symmetrical situation. I understand that the Chamber says, "I want to think about that for a while," as I want to think about the counselor. Can't we trade here? I understand that Mrs Beckerman needs some time to think about it. That's what I have with the counselor. If she's got her motion on part number one... 24 stays, and I'll take a little break here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u219	Look, there's a deal!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u220	Yes. No, but I mean it's not that crazy to think about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u221	I find this a painful exchange, because you can think about something, but you have to have a debate when that debate needs to be held. That counsel was really part of this debate, but if it gets the sensor network judgment room, that's me... I actually think this is very dirty politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u222	Well, no, I didn't mean to. Then I'll pull it back. I'm not gonna do dirty politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u223	No, but it's dirty, of course. It's both things that matter to Groningers, and then I'm gonna have to make a little political deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u224	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u225	I find that difficult, but that sensor network is worth something to me. Well, if that motion of censure can get Chamber... I think that's really important. It's such a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u226	I think it's clear. I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of the motions on the items Nos. 24 and 26. The judgment on the motion in part No. 24 may be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u227	I don't know what's gonna end up... There's a struggle. There's no such thing as a dirty deal here. I don't think it's weird to think about something that's important to a region. I think that's housekeeping. Quite often we already have an opinion a minute after the newspaper has appeared, but here we think about it. There's nothing weird about that. It's not like I didn't do my homework. I have expressed a different view in the documents from Mrs Beckerman. It's been thought through by all kinds of people. Besides, we may come to another line, but that has nothing to do with not doing your homework and it's not a dirty deal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u228	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u229	I would appreciate it, and I also said that I appreciate it if Mrs Beckerman would give it some thought. I want to give room for that. So I've got a little time to think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u230	Then I'm just suggesting the Minister be a bigger man than I am and give my own judgment Chamber to that motion about the sensor network. 'Cause if the minister says he actually wants to do that, well, just give that motion a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u231	Finalizing, the Minister. Hom or calf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u232	If we can't make that trade... I think the thinking is perfectly normal. I'm sure we don't need that network, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u233	And so the motion is in part no. 26 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u234	Yeah, well, then I'd advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u235	Very good. Then the motion to part No. 27 van Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u236	It's not a dirty deal. I deny that. I appreciate that someone wants time to think about it. The motion in part No. 27 calls on the government to discuss this matter. Yeah, I think that makes sense. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment. The motion in part No. 29 calls on the government "to take care of it" and so on. Here I really walk along the edge of Mrs Mulder, because I can't take care of something like that. The Minister of Justice is not going to "make sure" that the judge in future feels this or that. But I think I understand Mrs Mulder's motion in spirit and that I am giving the motion a Chamber judgment for that reason. But I should like to make it quite clear in the Acts that I am not giving orders to the IMG or to the quartermaster, but that this was the spirit of the debate and that we both see it that way. That's the way it should be in the Acts. Then I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Mulder on part No. 30 over fall in value. It's even rougher and I'm out of line. No, it's gonna be a game: I can't do this. If I make promises that I can't deliver at all, we'll all go to hell. So the motion in part No. 30, I'll have to dissuade you. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 31 is a debate which I thought was concluded with Mrs Dik-Faber and in which I clearly stated the intentions. But if it gets that specific, I'll also ask her to hold the motion until there's an M.O. Now we are talking about a method that is not yet in place and the request to see if anything else is in line with it. I understand the question, but I would like to consider Mrs Dik-Faber to hold the motion. Otherwise, in this very rugged form, I must advise against it. I hope that's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u237	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u238	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (35250, No. 31). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u239	Thank you. In the motion-Sienot c.s. in piece No. 32 the government is invited to agree on the lead times. I think that's a nice request. I listened very carefully to Mr Sienot's speech. I understand this motion, and I'm leaving the verdict to the Chamber. The Van Otterloo motion c.s. in piece No. 33 calls on the government to clarify the criteria. If I may draw in detail from what the Council of State has said on this matter, I shall give the motion judgment Chamber. The Van Otterloo motion c.s. in piece No. For strategic reasons, I find 34 extremely clumsy. I'm not going to write a manual on how the NAM can get out of a tax in all kinds of ways. I don't want to make that manual appear, so I have to discourage this motion. Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks has asked when the Law will be strengthened. It will be presented to the Council of State in March. The Council of State is about its own term, but it may take a few weeks. After the Council of State, the proposal comes to the Chamber. The specialists estimate that at best this could be just before or otherwise just after the summer recess. But we don't control the Council of State. We have also been asked about the planning of the intangible damage, I believe by Mr Kops among others. The opinion, together with the principles for implementation, will be shared with the Chamber in the first quarter. The procedure for non-material damage is followed thereafter. He'll announce it to the IMG. That's probably gonna be the second quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u240	One quick question, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u241	I think this is a problem. In the planning it is a different ministry, because it is about the reinforcement BZK's statement that it would be offered in Q1 and the treatment could begin. Now I hear that Q2 may not even be reached and that it can only be treated in the summer or after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u242	That's a quarter, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u243	Yeah, a quarter, sorry. Given the treatment time in both chambers, this means that we will not deal with this law until the end of 2020. This means that we would not be able to start the parliamentary survey this year either. I urge the Minister to consult with the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see if the submission of this bill can really be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u244	I had not yet seen this consequence. I didn't interfere with the timing of the colleague's bill either. I'll take that with me. Yeah, I see it. That's a good point!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u245	I am very much in favour of that. I really hope we're gonna deal with this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u246	I get the point. Yes, it is a commitment: I am going to discuss it with the colleague and somewhere in the flow of pieces I will let you know what the timing is. In any case, it may be useful to communicate the timing of the different sections in a subsequent communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u247	It's beautiful. So far. Thank you to the Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-8.u248	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, the amendments and the motions.
