ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the rules relating to the extension of the supervision of new healthcare providers and the amendment of various laws relating to the implementation of the Accession Healthcare Providers Act. It's two legislative proposals. The challenge will soon be to keep a clear distinction between the law on which the amendments have been tabled, but that will come later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u2	I would like to welcome the VWS Minister and the Minister for Medical Care, both of whom will speak, but first of all I would like to give the floor to the Chamber. We have nine spokesmen who will talk about this comprehensive bill, which has already been submitted in 2017 and has a long written history. Mr Kerstens will speak on behalf of the Labour Party as the first on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: you don't have to be Einstein to understand that if you can actually start out in healthcare, you can hardly be controlled and earn a lot of money, which not only attracts mother Theresa's or Florence Nightingales. So it turns out. Care cowboys, who take care of themselves in particular, know how to like the sector. Every now and then one runs into the lamp, but more often they can go on for years and then they are only checked once or never. That's gotta be different. Today we are discussing a bill that should help with that. But it has to be said: we've had to wait a damn long time for it. This bill, from the previous cabinet, was already launched in February 2017. And despite the fact that the Minister has already announced it very often in the newspaper, we are now three years further. That is a long time, especially when we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros leaking out of the sector every year. It concerns hundreds of millions of euros of care money that is not spent on care, not on people who need care. We can't afford that. All that money can and must be spent better. This proposal is a step in this direction, but it cannot be the last step. It takes more steps, and bigger ones. They've been announced, too. I urge the Ministers to show more ambition in this respect than has been the case today, both in terms of pace and in terms of content. Because I now come to the proposal itself, Mr President. If you want to work as an entrepreneur in healthcare, you will have to register before you start. And that is done by filling out a questionnaire on the internet, we read. It'll take 20 minutes to fill it out. Calling the Tax Phone will soon take longer. What insight is that report really going to provide, I ask the Minister. Is it gonna be more than a ticking list? Because this notification should ensure that healthcare providers are already more aware of what is expected of them before the start, and should provide the inspection with a faster and better view of who starts in the sector. I ask the Minister: how? How do we prevent a report from becoming a wash nose, a paper tiger? The insection now has insufficient visibility for providers and it sometimes takes years for providers to be checked, if it is already done. Mandatory reporting should provide that visibility. But what if a provider doesn't report? Then how do we find out, I ask the Minister? Are additional samples, for example? Are there firmer agreements made with health insurance companies? Is there any thought of increasing the sentence as long as there has been no report? Mr. Chairman. Moreover, this reporting obligation will only apply in part of the care, and not everywhere. For example, he is not going to apply to home care, nor to sheltered living and supervised living. That is a pity, because there is a lot wrong there too, as we regularly read. The reason for excluding these branches is a formal one: the inspection does not supervise them, because that is the task of municipalities. But they're not the same kind of stuff, so to speak. That's not what I'm saying, but that's what the inspection says. And that while municipalities have been responsible for it for five years now. An earlier motion in which I called on the cabinet to come up with a serious action plan to tackle healthcare cowboys in the Wmo, the Social Support Act, was one vote short here in the Chamber. And that is when I think such a plan is necessary. It must also involve more than meeting, talking, exchanging good examples and pointing out the great importance of maintaining and monitoring, as is happening now. Here too, the non-committality must be removed; that will sound familiar to the minister of VWS. Is he willing to do that? Is he willing to sit in there firmer, more compelling? Is he willing to take additional measures? Mr. Chairman. This proposal not only introduces a reporting obligation, it also extends the licensing obligation. More often than now, healthcare providers will have to apply for a permit. In contrast to what is sometimes the case at present, this licence will no longer be granted automatically. That's good in itself. Less good is that this weather does not apply to everyone. For example, it does not apply to smaller healthcare providers. Health insurers, who note that there is certainly much wrong there too, and they can therefore know that they are firmly insisting that the law should apply to those smaller providers as well. I'm asking for that, too. I also think it is less good that providers who are already active in the sector when the law enters into force will have no less than two years to apply for a licence. Two years! I really love that. I told you, we've been doing this bill for three years. And then there should also be two more years for providers whom we say we should have them on the screen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr Kerstens has tabled an amendment, an amendment to this law, to extend the licence requirement. This duty should also apply to institutions employing fewer than 10 healthcare providers. That amendment is very similar to the one the SP had already tabled last year in order to introduce a licensing requirement for all healthcare providers, including soloists and self-employed persons. My question is: does the PvdA think that reporting and licensing should also apply to self-employed persons and soloists? And if so, why didn't the PvdA just join the SP amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u5	Logical question, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to consider the latter. In my amendment, I have just touched on it. I am talking about 'all the institutions', the size of which does not matter. Precisely because I have just said that health insurers have said several times that certainly smaller providers want to go a little bit wrong and they would like to have a direct view of it, for the sake of whether or not to issue a permit. I would like to say to Mr Hijink that, when I have finished my speech, I will look at the extent to which our amendment relates to his amendment, whether there are differences between it and whether we can perhaps combine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr Kerstens's amendment has the text No. 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink No 21 and that of Mr Hijink Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u7	You're razor sharp, Mr. Chairman. That is indeed the point. The crucial difference is whether you think that a licence requirement should also apply to self-employed workers, to solo health care workers. We say yes, also because health insurance companies point out that it is very often the case for soloists that things go wrong and that it is logical that they should also be subject to licensing. I dare you to go along with that and sign our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u8	I told you I'm gonna look into that. I think that Mr Hijink and I at least agree that the limit now laid down in the legislative proposal, where small healthcare providers do not have to apply for that permit, is far too high and that health insurers want to have a look at the little ones, because things often go wrong there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u9	I also have a question about the licensing requirement for smaller suppliers. Because part of that are demands on the administrative structure, including an internal supervisor. Do you think that those smaller institutions should also meet these requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u10	I think that is a question of a slightly different order from Mr Hijink's question just now, because an internal supervisor, even if you look at the other sectors in the Netherlands, is not active in all kinds of smaller organisations. I could imagine some kind of enlightened regime. Because I think that is Mrs Ellemeet's unspoken assumption: monitoring money brought up by our audience and also having a clear destiny, namely care and care for those who need care, is never wrong. I am not referring to my amendment on the licensing obligation, partly because there I come to several places in the legislative proposal that there is a further interpretation of General Administrative Measure or Ministerial Regulation. The same applies to that supervision. But I am certainly open to that, although I am also aware of it, there is something in the explanatory statement that what you are asking for must be in line with who you are asking for it, also in view of the burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u11	If I remember correctly, the word 'proportional' is also included in the explanatory memorandum. But it is nice for the Chamber to state what that means as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u12	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u13	Because part of the problem of this legislation is that it is even lower regulation, while it is up to the Chamber to say what we want. Let me be clear about that: I think it is good to have as much insight as possible for the supervisors, but that should remain proportionate. As far as I am concerned, this means for smaller healthcare providers that we do not ask them to create a huge internal supervisory structure. Because that is disproportionate, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u14	We do not disagree, as my previous answer showed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u15	I believe that Mr Hijink has tabled a similar amendment a long time ago. We have also tabled an amendment ourselves, not so much to say that all smaller organisations should be included by default, but that there should be a proper analysis, with the Minister being able to add certain categories per AMvB. Listening to the little debate with GroenLinks, a lighter regime, and that sort of thing, I think it is not an unnecessary luxury that the analysis takes place first. I therefore invite Mr Kerstens to put his name under our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u16	That is the amendment to item No. 31 (34767).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u17	I'm flattered by all the invitations. I'm definitely gonna take a serious look at that. From Mrs Bergkamp's point, I would also like to point out that the legislative proposal is now only talking about categories of healthcare providers that would be excluded from the obligations imposed by the new law, but that it should or may be the case that categories should be added. This is very similar to what I have said, namely that this law must have maximum effect by being of service where things could go wrong and where you need a licence or a notification obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u18	I think it is quite handsome of Mr Kerstens that it now seems as if Mr Hijink and I have both tabled amendments similar to Mr Kerstens' amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u19	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u20	I think it is a bit the other way round, but I am glad that Mr Kerstens is going to look at both amendments and that he can choose from them. Again, also looking at the regulatory burden, which we always talk about as a Chamber, our amendment is really aimed at not saying now: well, let's go, everyone should be included. A proper analysis must be carried out first. On that basis, we will then consider whether or not categories should be included, as Mr Kerstens said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u21	I think that in her second interruption Mrs Bergkamp herself points out that the amendments are not the same. I didn't suggest they were the same either. I have only indicated that I also see in Mrs Bergkamp's amendment that she can imagine adding categories, rather than excluding only categories as the bill now says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u22	After this discussion, of course, I am very curious to see what Mr Kerstens thinks of the CDA amendment. We have proposed that not only all new healthcare providers, but also all current healthcare providers should report, so that the inspection has a clear file and a clear way of registering all healthcare providers that are now in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u23	That is the amendment to item No. 21, but that's actually part of the other bill, the bill with Room 34768. But there are four amendments, in particular, on licensing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you very much for the clarification, Mr President. I'm afraid it doesn't make it clear to everyone. I'm gonna take a look at that. I think I saw it come by this morning. Here too, I note that we are discussing today a legislative proposal on which many amendments have been tabled. Very wide in the Chamber, attention is being paid to matters. I believe that every amendment reflects the desire of the group concerned to do more than has been proposed in the legislative proposal. So I'm definitely gonna take a very sympathetic look at this. In my speech, moreover, I had just come to another provision in the legislative proposal that applies to existing providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u25	Then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u26	Shall I go through with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u27	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u28	What I do not like is that the bill gives providers who are already active in the sector two years to apply for a licence. Two years, I think it's way too long. As has been said, we have been discussing this bill for three years and then we are adding two more years for providers that we say we should have in mind. Such an application for a permit is not that much work, at least according to the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. Nor are the conditions to be met that are so insane. That is why I have tabled an amendment to bring those two years down to one year. That's really more than enough. Even then, you still take into account the boom in requests from new providers which, according to the explanatory memorandum, is expected in the first six months following the entry into force of the bill. Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, a licence will no longer be granted automatically. Applications will be examined. The legislative proposal lists the reasons why a permit will be refused or withdrawn. I actually think they all make sense, except for one or two. We were just talking about it. Where appropriate, which will be further specified, the application shall require a statement of conduct, commonly referred to as a "statement of good conduct." That doesn't happen by default or just like that. There's got to be a reason for that. Getting such a statement is then clearly considered important. I get that. I agree with that, but it is strange that it is not yet clear whether it will have any consequences if such an explanation is not given. After all, the bill states that the Minister can then refuse or withdraw a licence. It says "kán" and not "zán." That too must have consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u29	On this point, the SP had already tabled an amendment, namely to make it compulsory or to be able to use it as a basis for withdrawing a licence. It also strikes me here that the PvdA is submitting the exact same amendment once again. I'm just genuinely wondering why that kind of thing happens. Then why don't the party just say, "Hey, shall we do this together?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u30	We do this in some cases; so does Mr Hijink. The number of cases we have done together has long since ceased to count a list of motions and amendments. In my view, the amendments are not the same in this respect. I think you're saying that a dog should always be applied for. I am referring to the cases in which it is requested and apparently no follow-up or automatic response is given to it if such an explanation of behaviour cannot be presented. I am also referring in the amendment to the so-called Bibob research, the integrity research that may take place in some cases. Moreover, here too, a general measure of governance is announced on the statement of conduct. I believe that the parties have the same basic concerns here too, namely a rigorous review to ensure that care cowboys are not allowed to go about their business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u31	So that everyone can keep up with it, let me add that this is the amendment on item No. 26 by Mr Hijink and Amendment No 26 by Mr Hijink, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 27 by Mr Kerstens. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u32	I will, Mr. Chairman. I have just said that it needs to be made clear when a statement on behaviour is to be presented, also in response to Mr Hijink's interruption, and that it needs to be made clear when a so-called Bibob investigation, an integrity investigation, takes place. Here comes, I just said, another general measure of governance, just like for all kinds of other things. I would have liked to have had a closer look at this by now, and I am sure that will also apply to my colleagues. It is relevant and it is not that there has not been time to work out all these things. Is the Minister prepared to allow these general measures of administration to go to the Chamber before they enter into force? I have already tabled a number of amendments on this. Finally, Mr President. Sometimes I feel like we're dealing with symptom control here. This proposal is a step forward. That's what I said. But its size is limited, among other things, by what the inspection can handle. This in turn has to do with the huge amount of suppliers on the market. I would like to ask the Ministers whether it makes sense to agree on this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you very much. One more question or an interruption by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u34	On this last point. I agree with Mr Kerstens that we should indeed talk about this: what do we ask our supervisors and are they equipped with that question? Mr Kerstens's amendment adds a little more to that question. It calls for the two-year period to be reduced to one year so that everyone has to report within one year. How does Mr. Kerstens see that? Doesn't he also worry that this means more work for the inspection? Can she handle it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u35	The amendment referred to by Mrs Ellemeet refers to the authorisation of suppliers already operating at the time of entry into force of the legislative proposal. I would like to reduce to one year the two-year period, which these parties have under the bill to apply for that permit. I have indicated why and I have also indicated that I think it should be possible, but I realize, like no other, that we are asking a great deal of the inspection. That is why I would like to raise that other question. If you make sure that not everyone can just start and do something for it, you might hit more flies with one stone than when you keep chasing the facts, something that happens when you don't watch out. Because I think we both know that this other discussion is a very difficult one, and the run-up to it alone has been going on for quite some time now, we are going to have a contour note this summer which might also say something about it. I do not think that we should wait for it in the meantime. This proposal is now in place, so let's get it up to date in order to get it off to a good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, it is certainly not a no-go to look at how we can give supervisors more capacity to do their job properly, but I do think we should also look at prioritisation. I am therefore very interested in the response of the directors. If there is no room for that, then this priority of the PvdA, so to go from those two to one year, would be a little lower for me on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yes. We're gonna hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you. This last discussion was about the amendment to item No. 28. Mrs Ellemeet has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, we've been eagerly looking forward to this moment, I think I can say on behalf of all the groups here in this house. This is a bill that touches on the core of the concern: we want everyone to be given good care and that the money we all invest in that good care will end up with that good care, not unwanted in other places. So we were eagerly looking forward to this for over two years. And then you sit down and read all those documents, the opinions of the Council of State and the explanations of the directors. And as you read more, it gets harder and harder to really get to the core. That is not the case with all the laws; that was the case with this bill, at least for me. I also tried to sum it up for myself: what is the character of this law, how else could you describe it? As far as I'm concerned, it's the law of the sliding panels. 'Cause there's a lot on the move. The idea of a law is, of course, that crystallizes something. We have a problem. I believe that the core of the problem is a better view of all healthcare providers and of the quality, but certainly also a better view of the finances and what happens to the money that we pay for that care. Then you'd want this law to solve that problem, too, and to crystallize something. And with these sliding panels, which I still have a lot left over from this bill, that is unfortunately not really the case. What do I mean by that, by the "law of the sliding panels"? That's that a lot of things are still going on. So the idea was: we talk about it for a long time, and these rulers have been promising to come up with a law for a long time. And then it's finally time, but what do we have in our hands, what do we really solve? Well, that remains unclear. Progress continues to be made on evaluations of other laws in order to resolve these problems properly. That is really very unsatisfactory. And I or the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is not the only one who thinks so, as we have read in the opinions of the Council of State. But maybe first we'll get back to those problems we're picking up. I would like to mention here Mrs Eelke van Ark van Follow the Money, who has done a very good job in recent years, but also researchers from the University of Tilburg, Mr Suijs and Mr Verbon, we know that the problems are quite serious when it comes to shady constructions that are being rigged; main contractors working with smart ones, sometimes the director is also the shareholder, where dividends are being paid out, which we have very little insight into and which we can do little about. And of course, the latter is the worst. So that's kind of a big problem. And it's high time we solved that. And yes, I had really hoped that we could talk about that solution at the moment, but we cannot do that enough, I fear. So the problem is these shady constructions. I believe that this is a bigger problem than quality control, because there is a need for quality control, and that is perhaps a compliment that has been done quite a lot in recent years: many quality frameworks, a lot of accountability about quality. Look at all those caregivers in all those institutions, who provide so much information about how they do their work and what that means for the quality of care. So the problem is much more in those finances. If I were to sum up what this proposal is doing, what is happening, what is going to be different from the current legislation, then it is that we are being given a duty of notification, that the licensing obligation is being extended and that we are getting a picture of the subcontractors, where this was actually far too little. So I don't want to say that nothing happens, but it's just not enough. Then I come to an essential point of criticism from my group and also from the Council of State about this bill. The basis is the Wet quality, complaints and disputes care. With the admissions law, we build on the scope of that law. Let it be so that this Wkkgz is only about the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act, while we know from all those studies that have been published in recent years that a large part of the problem, which is shady constructions and the distribution of profits, takes place not only within the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act, but also within the Youth Act and the Wmo. After all, I had hoped that we would be further ahead at the moment and that this cabinet would also have a solution to the problems and the abuses that we see there. When we talk about sliding panels, that is exactly one of those sliding panels that are still taking place somewhere in the future and hopefully we can jump on it at some point. But the question is, when are we going to do that? To what extent does this law then link one-to-one with the problems and solving the problems that arise within the WMO and the Youth Act? I would also like to put that question to the rulers. The Council of State is also right to say that the core should be that we want to address the quality of care problems, regardless of the law within which that care takes place. In fact, some transactions are exactly the same in the Wmo as in the Long-Term Care Act or the Health Insurance Act. I would also like to ask the Minister: what is at the heart of this legal process? Is it really about the care, or is it about the complicated system that we have created with each other? Would it not then be desirable not to put another Christmas ball in this Christmas tree and not make the system even more complicated? We should not say: in fact, care must be central and there must be one solution for the quality of the whole care. So we should actually choose a completely different route, instead of once again creating different partial solutions with all these laws, half of which we don't even have in mind yet. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go through the main points of criticism of the Council of State, which have not yet been sufficiently answered, also in the spirit of my group. The Council of State states in its first opinion of 2017 that there is still uncertainty about the admission requirements. That's because a lot of AMvB is going to be regulated, determined. That is actually a very fundamental point of criticism, namely that the core of the law, says the Council of State, is regulated by lower regulation. So it is not in the law itself, but it is regulated in a ministerial arrangement or in an AMvB. So that is also about the admission requirements. Let this law be called the Act of Accession healthcare providers. So the core of the law is about admission. Then we are going to organise the core of the law in lower regulation. That is why I am asking the directors if they can clarify this. Why do they choose to organise the core of the law in lower regulation? Isn't that a weird thing to do? I'd like a response to that. Then the Council of State is very critical of its scope. How far does this law go, for example with soloists? A lot of caregivers work as soloists. Now it seems that the demands we are about to make are to a large extent not imposed on soloists. I would also like to hear from these directors how we ensure that all those soloists are sufficiently visible and that we can monitor them sufficiently if we exclude them from so many rules in this law. Then I want to go on to the advice from 2019. Here too, the Council of State is revisiting its scope. He pointed out that the letter of amendment did not alter our criticism. It is still unclear to whom the accountability will apply. I'm gonna ask the rulers if they can clear this up. Who is subject to what requirements and how is the Chamber sufficiently taken into account? Is this not just a decision that will be taken in the department, but to what extent can we properly carry out our monitoring task? The Council of State is also talking about the consistency of policies and rightly points out that we are about to start a number of things. That's a lot to do with the sector. However, the cabinet also announces that it will come up with different regulations when it comes to sound management, when it comes to profit, when it comes to youth care. GroenLinks wants to prevent us from asking the health care field "you have to take action and deliver everything" and that in six months or a year we are going to change it again and make other demands again. So what I think is extremely important and what I want to ask of the rulers is: can they guarantee that everything they are going to do in the coming years in the areas that we partly regulate in this law is consistent in relation to this law? I think it is extremely important to send that signal here, even for colleagues in the First Chamber, I can imagine. Mr. Chairman. If I had to sum up what's going on here, maybe it's best to make the comparison with buying a house. You get your purchase contract and you're supposed to put your signature underneath it, but at the same time it says in small print "we don't yet know if we're going to build a conservatory," so that's even more the question, "we don't yet know if this house is life-proof," so that's still to come out, "we don't know in what color we're going to produce the house," and "we don't know if we're going to be heated with gas or electricity." So I'm just gonna mention a few things. We are now supposed to sign a contract as a Chamber, which is the Wtza law, while we don't really know a lot of essential things yet. Isn't that weird? That's what I'm asking the rulers. Do we have enough information to say yes to this law now when there is still so much uncertainty and we are going to have so many debates where we are going to look back at this legal treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u40	I like the metaphor of the sliding panels. But when I hear Mrs Ellemeet's contribution, I do have the question of how she looks at the support of this panel. Because I think she is telling me that I also recognise that we are very much looking forward to the other laws and that they must be consistent. I couldn't agree more. But of course this law also contains a number of essential things that many people think we already work like this, namely that you have to report when you start a healthcare organisation. Does Mrs Ellemeet think this law is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u41	Absolutely. So I think we... in fact, I would like to put it this way: as far as I am concerned, we had discussed this discussion earlier and the proposals that are coming. I also see the problems, when it comes to the shadowy constructions and care-likes that can only go their divine way. I also see the problem that the inspection now has, that it does not have a part of the caregivers at all in the picture. That's really weird. It is something so essential in our society that we organise good care and that we indeed assume that care is properly provided. And that there is a supervisor who can intervene if necessary. So in that respect, I fully agree with this. It's very important. Only, we also need to look at the validity of the law. The Council of State is right to point out that this could have been even better. In fact, I don't remember dealing with a law that the Council of State says over and over again, "He's insufficiently sound and I advise you not to send him to the House of Representatives." I think that's quite a strong statement. So my group is in that dilemma when it comes to assessing this law. I think the same applies to Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mrs Ellemeet continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have outlined a problem analysis, but of course my group also wants to come forward with solutions. How can we further improve the bill here? I make a number of suggestions; I have tabled a number of amendments. I actually wanted to start with a point that I did not put into an amendment but that I would like to emphasise once again in the case of a motion for a resolution. That's about consistency. I really want a clear statement from this cabinet that everything that's going to happen is in line with what we're meeting now, so it just shouldn't be the case that we're asking the sector to throw it over a completely different path. I think that is a very important point, not only in this Chamber but also in the Upper Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We also see abuses in the Youth Act and there too money is piercing away and things are not happening as we want. The Minister has previously announced that he will review the Youth Act and come back to it, but at the same time we can take a small step now. Financial accountability control is now the responsibility of the inspection. The idea of this law is that we combine the expertise even better. So all the knowledge we have when it comes to financial supervision, we should be smartly pooling. The Healthcare Authority is the appropriate supervisor to assume those tasks. Part of the control of accountability now lies with the inspection. I propose that this be transferred to the Healthcare Authority. Then we will at least take the small step that we can already take towards the smart organisation of these supervisory tasks. I will also encourage the Cabinet to look at the way in which we can strengthen financial supervision in the future establishment of the Youth Act, as we do in other areas and sectors of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u44	This was about the amendment to item No. 16 on the second legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as the scope of the Wtza is concerned, I have already indicated that it is really strange that we should take the Wkkgz as a starting point, while we know that, for example, the monitoring of the inspection is very limited in terms of subcontractors. Subcontractors are now required to report, but that is what is actually stopping. If you read the answer of the cabinet to the questions about this, they say: subcontractors conclude a contract with the main contractors and we should be able to assume that the main contractors have sufficient control over the quality of the subcontractors. Let the relationship between the main contractors and the subcontractors sometimes be a problem. Let us just mark the point that this cabinet wants to make with the obligation to notify subcontractors that these subcontractors also offer care, so we should take it as seriously as the main contractors. If you go through that line of the cabinet, it would mean that the inspection should be able to carry out an adequate and comprehensive monitoring of subcontractors as well as it can do so on the main contractors. That is why I propose by amendment to extend the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act so that the inspection can also fully monitor the subcontractors, just as it can control the main contractors. Then the inspection can really go through if there are abuses in the quality of those subcontractors, which I believe this whole Chamber is right to be concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u46	This is the amendment on the part of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 20 on the second legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u47	I read the amendment and thought about what I thought about it. It seems logical in itself, but my reservation is that with the amendment you are causing that the main contractor may not feel entirely responsible for the subcontractor, because he thinks: if that subcontractor makes a mess of it, the inspection can supervise it. In addition, it provides more workload of the inspection. Could Mrs Ellemeet respond to these two hesitations on my part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u48	Sure. I get the point about the main contractor's responsibility. You do not want to take that responsibility away. At the same time, you do want the inspection to take place towards those subcontractors, as she can towards the main contractors. I don't think one should rule out the other. You could fix that. The contracts concluded by the main contractor with subcontractors have quite a responsibility. If it turns out that these subcontractors do not provide proper care and the main contractor did not intervene in time, then you can reprimand the main contractor for that. So I don't think one should rule out the other. I believe that the quality of care should be just as good for that subcontractor and that we should therefore allow the inspection to be carried out in order to be able to monitor that subcontractor properly. I actually think it is a very good point from Mrs Bergkamp. So we should see how you hold the main contractor's responsibility. Could this be done, for example, in the form of a reprimand towards the main contractor if he has not fulfilled it? I already see a nod from Mrs Bergkamp, so perhaps I can refer this question to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u49	Of course, you don't want to mess with the legal responsibility. In my view, Mrs Ellemeet does not want that, so I am very curious about the reaction of the rulers. We just had an interruption by Mrs Ellemeet and a colleague on the workload of the inspection. This, of course, means that something extra is added.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u50	Yeah, sure, so we should take a good look at that, too. We can see from all the research that we have all been able to read in recent years, that the problems are largely with the subcontractors. For example, no proper care is provided. That's an important reason why we're dealing with this law, so we really need to solve that problem. That is, for me at least, the reason for this legal procedure. We need to solve the problem adequately. I think that's a little skinny right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mrs Ellemeet continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u52	I come to my final solution. This concerns the limited supervision of the finances of the smaller healthcare providers, the health cowboys who, of course, already know how to find their way through the loopholes of the law. An important loophole in the law is the boundary that is now being laid between financial accountability for the larger healthcare providers and the smaller ones. If you have a turnover below seven tons, have limited assets of, out of my mind, €350,000 and have limited staff, so if you're a relatively small healthcare provider, well, small: they have a turnover of seven tons, then you only have to give very limited financial accountability to the supervisor. Of course, these cowboys are aware of that. That is why they often go below the turnover limit and stay out of the picture with the supervisor. Those are exactly the shady constructions and the lack of transparency you want to avoid. That is what my group is saying: we want to do something about this law. That also means that we have to lift that line. Should that entail all kinds of problems, which I do not think, you should at least say: for all providers, big or small, the requirement is that they provide sufficient information about their finances to the supervisor. I'm talking specifically about your balance sheet, the profit and loss account and your... What was the last point? I'll get back to you on that. At least I'm talking about the basic set of financial data. If you have to deliver it to the Tax Office now, then it's no trouble to deliver it to the supervisor as well. It does not mean any additional administrative burden, but it does mean that we allow the regulator to actually supervise the smaller providers, the health cowboys, who are now in the loopholes of the law. That's what we want to deal with. We can do that well with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u53	That is the amendment to item No. 22 on the second bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a few more questions for the rulers. They're about the soloists. By excluding them in this way, you exclude most of the new providers in the care of a very large part of the Wtza regulations. In what way do the directors intend to overcome the lack of supervision when it comes to the soloists? Because that's most of the providers. In what way do they wish to gain sufficient insight into existing providers? Mrs van den Berg has also tabled an amendment to this effect: rule on reporting obligations for existing providers. My name is also underneath it, because I think it is very important that we have sufficient vision of it. Do we now have sufficiently strict supervision and strict requirements for accession? We also belong from the field, from the sector itself, that there may be a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bitch here and there. I am very curious to see to what extent, according to the directors, the accession requirements are really substantial enough to deal with the abuses. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to call on the rulers not to turn this law, which we have been looking forward to for so long, into an anticlimax. We were eagerly looking forward to it. Let us now also ensure that this bill provides a solution to the problems we identify with each other. And let's avoid jumping from one sliding panel to the next sliding panel, but by mistake, we don't reach that next sliding panel. Where do we all end up? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you very much for your input. Mrs Van den Berg has the floor on behalf of the Christian Democrat Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that the vast majority of healthcare providers are just doing their job properly and well. Unfortunately, however, there are also healthcare providers who do not, and that is why this law is there. My grandmother taught me: you can't protect your house from thieves, but you can try to make it harder for them to get in. That is what the CDA hopes that this law will do: to ensure that the money for care is better protected against those who abuse it for their own benefit and gain rather than for the benefit of society, and to protect it against those who do not have integrity, provide poor quality care or are simply incompetent. Unfortunately, in addition to the vast majority of caregivers and healthcare providers who do their work with integrity and conviction, we also have people who are messing up or even deliberately trying to make a deal out of it. We have different categories. First of all, fraudsters, grabs with no moral awareness, or administrators who do not put the social interest at the top, who take commercial risks, who engage in conflicts of interest and who have insufficient insight into their own governance and financial organisation. We have seen a whole collection of examples in the last few years alone. I refer to the ggz institution, Dr Bosman, which, in the past, has had financial malpractice and has declared far too much, and is now in danger of going bankrupt. An investment company wants to take over the institution, but the municipality will have to pay for the financial damage. Municipalities are being blackmailed with this. Care money ultimately threatens to be spent on an investment company's profit model. Or think of the home care organisation PrivaZorg, with nineteen support points throughout the country, where 1,300 self-employed help 2,000 elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Here there appeared to be a laundry list of abuses, including the appearance of conflict of interest, lack of transparency and shady financial constructions, in which the top man tried to channel 12 million euros from a wealthy subsidiary to a foundation under his direction. Plus that with Priva, the accountant advised the owners how to put money away. Then he was rewarded by becoming director of PrivaZorg. Care money has disappeared and care for the vulnerable has come to the fore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u57	PrivaZorg is a good example. Alliade would also be a good example. My question is: does Mrs van den Berg really think that this proposal is going to solve these kinds of abuses? In what way is this bill going to make it impossible to get around the ban on profit distribution or by circumventing the Top Income Standards Act? How is this law going to prevent such abuses from occurring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u58	In my view, Mrs Ellemeet has already referred to the other law that is still to come, about the integrity of the business. In any case, I will address competent and reliable drivers later in my speech. I will also talk about the whole responsibility. We believe that this is a good way to take these institutions a step further. Plus, this law is, of course, also there for the institutions that already have a licence. They'll have to apply for a new permit. More demands are made on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u59	I am asking this question, of course, because I have asked the CDA very often in recent years to clarify all kinds of financial abuses in healthcare institutions. As an example, I would like to mention a foundation that has a whole series of e.g. under the foundation, and through these e.g. money is simply channelled to directors or to health care providers. That's bad. The CDA and the SP both think, at least that's what I thought you should do. We have therefore waited 2.5 years for this law to be 'excited', as Mrs Ellemeet said. And now when I look at what's lying there, it's not made impossible to channel money through subsidiaries and it's not made impossible to evade top income through subsidiaries. In fact, therefore, everything we are all so critical of remains possible with this law. There will be a reporting obligation and a licensing obligation, but they will not in any way do anything about lugging care money away from malicious people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u60	I will come back to the whole of accountability later, because we want much more transparency in financial accountability, which makes it much easier for the supervisors to see things through and then to intervene. Last Friday I heard that an alderman from Middelburg said: I know a health care institution with a profit of 200%. Then you just know something's not right here. At a time when this is clearly mapped out and is also more transparent for the regulator, it is much easier for us to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mrs Van den Berg is now giving a very bad example, because it is precisely municipal care that is not covered by this law. Can I ask Mrs Van den Berg whether the CDA will support the various proposals made by the SP, for example to prevent conflicts of interest between directors working in, for example, small businesses and in the above-mentioned foundation? We want to stop that. Will Mrs Van den Berg join us in our proposal to prevent profits being distributed? In other words, does she want to join in our proposals, which are going to put an end to the grunting? We were still looking at each other, because Mrs Van den Berg almost started out as a SP: we have to put an end to the grabbing in the care. We agree on that, but now she has to come up with proposals...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u62	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u63	... and she should not now join a law that simply maintains virtually all the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u64	Two things. Mr Hijink mentioned the profit debate. We have received from these rulers profit letters in which they write that they are coming up with further measures. We want to stick to what the rulers have written about it. Once again, the ministers have announced that there will be another law on sound management. Then I would very much like to discuss transparency with Mr Hijink. I think we totally agree on the fact that you can't have double caps. The question is whether we should settle that in this law today or whether we should do so in the other law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mrs Van den Berg continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. Another example is DeSeizoenen, an institution with six establishments for 440 adults with learning difficulties. That's where the Entrepreneurship Chamber has recently established malpractice. Functions and interests of the caretakers were too mixed up, making it unclear whether the profit ban in the care was circumvented. 'Cause what happened? The directors had set up an e.g. They'll put $100 in there. They borrowed an amount from the health care institutions, so care money was used to provide a loan. With that amount, they provided themselves with the institution's real estate. The residents paid rent to the real estate company. With the rent income the loan was paid off again. Again precious care money that has not been spent on good care. And what about Pluryn and The Hoenderloo Group in Gelderland? There young people are being supported to live as independently as possible, and there they are now trying to make a start with man and power, after wrong decisions have been made in the past. Vulnerable young people are at risk of incompetence and maladministration. Finally, Mr Hijink referred to it as "Alliade," which in Friesland and Groningen offers, among other things, disability care, care for the elderly and home care, with 7,000 employees. The inspection carried out two years of research there because of a lack of integrity and control and suspected forgery. What happened there, for example? The care facility has a shop. The drivers make this a separate example. Afterwards, drivers buy these e.g. In the store people from the neighborhood and the residents can shop. You can also make Wajongers, social workers or anyone else work through grant schemes. You conclude a contract with the health care institution which states that an annual amount from the health care institution goes to the shop. The profits of the store go to the owners, who are the drivers again. Another category are real estate managers who claim to offer a home-care combination, but hardly give care, in miserably maintained real estate. Recently, I saw very sad examples of this at work in Leeuwarden. Then the entrepreneurs who have little care and come up with problems for solutions they have, such as education support in youth care. For example, Mr René Peters spotted a youth care provider for helping autistic children, who also had a Chamber of Commerce code to store flammable gases. We also saw some examples in the Elsevier last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mrs Van den Berg rightly lists various types of abuses that we see in the healthcare sector. How does she think the bill we're talking about is gonna solve these abuses? Is this bill going to solve these abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u68	I think this bill is going to solve some of the wrongs. And the other part will be borne by the Health Care Providers Act. What is going to happen here is that all the institutions that are now subject to authorisation must apply for a licence again, so that more demands can be made to prove things. So not just to say but also to prove. Secondly, all current healthcare providers come into view. I refer to our amendment, in which we say that not only the new healthcare providers but also all the current smaller healthcare providers must report. We hope that reporting is not only a check-off list, but that there are also questions that are tested a bit whether you remember that you are actually going to work in healthcare. The third is that at least the subcontractors are also shown, because they have a reporting obligation. So we think that this law is going to help to take good steps in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u69	In a critical question from the Council of State about the administrative burden involved in the reporting obligation, the cabinet replied very carefully: that is to say, that is to write down ten minutes. And the hope of this cabinet is that this reporting obligation also increases the awareness of the responsibility you have and of the impact, and that you know what rules you have to abide by. How does that relate to the fact that this obligation to notify is actually no more than ten minutes of filling out a form?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u70	I'll come back to that later. As far as we're concerned, it could be a little more than ten minutes. If you want to get money from the Health Insurance Act, it's perfectly normal that you have to report it first. You don't have to work on it for days, but you have to sit down and see what you do and what you don't know and what pieces you might have to deliver. We really don't think that's too much to ask before you get money that's meant to be cared for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mrs Van den Berg lists a beautiful, or rather a not so beautiful, list of wrongdoings. That list could have been a lot longer. That list could also have included all kinds of abuses in the area of the Social Support Act or in the area of supervised and protected living. Yet that does not fall under this law. How does the CDA feel about that? Does the CDA think it's missing or does the CDA understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u72	The CDA doesn't understand that automatically, because I'm going to ask a question about it later. We do understand that protected living and the care package are not included. We're worried about that. We do not want to make it virtually impossible for the law to be implemented, which will result in further delays. But it is a category that we are very concerned about. So I'm gonna ask you a question about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u73	We'll share that with each other. The Labour Party is also very concerned about abuses surrounding the Wmo and regrets that this obligation to notify and permit is not going to apply there. I referred in my speech to a motion that I tabled earlier to ask the government to come up with a plan of action to deal with the care cowboys in some other way, let us just call them "cowboys" in those sectors. That motion didn't make it back then. I was short one vote, for instance because the CDA didn't vote in favour. Would Mrs Van den Berg be able to think and perhaps come up with a motion with us to deal with these abuses as well? If you can't do it through this law, you can do it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u74	I would, of course, like to know the reason why we apparently did not support this motion last time, but I would like to talk to Mr Kerstens about this later on in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mrs Van den Berg continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Money for care must be spent efficiently and effectively on care. If something seems too good to be true, just assume that it is often too good to be true and that something is not right. So I heard last Friday from a CDA alderman who had spotted a company with a 200% profit. Then you just know something's not right. There is a good chance that all these examples are just the tip of the iceberg. It is high time that the inspection was better able to monitor closely. Mr. Chairman. I often talk about the three Bs: care must be available, affordable and accessible. But today I want to talk about the fourth B, the base has to be in order. An ICT system that is user-friendly and accessible, transparent governance, a learning culture and clear reporting, and first of all, let the outside world know that you even exist, because that is often not even the case now. In order to achieve this, structural changes will have to be made in the coming years. I put down five new B's for that. The first B is to keep learning. The average level of employment in the care sector is still low. As I pointed out in the budgetary procedure, there is a high absenteeism and a course of more than 15% that is mop-up with the tap open. Employees should be given more control over their work, but also more inspired by training. As a physician assistant said to me: doing a mandatory e-learning module in between is really different from being allowed to go to a conference. Many people leave care because the workload is too high, and it is so high because of the many administration. Too few people in the workplace cause higher absenteeism and so you are in a vicious circle. That applies to all branches of care, by the way. This brings me to my second B: benchmarking results. Whoever you speak to in the care, everyone says that one third to 40% of the time is involved in administration. A recent article in Het Financieele Dagblad, last week, confirms that. On the one hand, this leads to a lot of frustration among employees, who have started to work in care to provide care and not to do administration. On the other hand, much time and money is lost, while the affordability of care is under pressure and there is a shortage of staff. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: the fact that I have cleaning products in my house is no guarantee that my house is clean. The CDA is therefore in favour of stopping all kinds of ticking lists and sending them on results and using quality registrations such as orthopedics, oncology and cardiology that already apply. The good thing is that this can be combined with the "soft justification" that focuses on quality of care and customer satisfaction, i.e. efficiency. This requires less focus on ticking lists and financial accountability. This happens, for example, at the JP van den Bent foundation for disability care. How can this be the starting point for the whole care? I'd like a response from the Minister. And then the third B: understandable justification. As I pointed out recently, one of the lectures I had during my studies in International Economics in Tilburg was ten ways to calculate your winnings. Hence my earlier pleas for the unambiguous definition of concepts and the unambiguous organisation of the annual accounts. I want this clarity not only for the 200 large institutions, but for all healthcare providers, all the more so since most institutions only have to have an assessment statement that is what else they need and not an audit report. In addition, many institutions deliver their reports too late. A review carried out by BDO's auditors in 2019 showed that 23 of the 61 medical-specialist companies had not yet filed their annual accounts for 2016, despite being legally required to do so. As regards the CDA, all healthcare institutions, healthcare providers and healthcare providers should deposit their annual accounts by June of the following year, i.e. the annual accounts for 2019 in June 2020. Is the Minister prepared to map this? Many little ones make a big one. Smaller institutions also need to justify the money lawfully and efficiently and not think: a tree so fully loaded is not missing one or two puppies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u77	I did not want to interrupt Mrs Van den Berg in one of her beautiful winged statements, but I think she was just finished. She is right to talk about also tackling the care cowboys among the smaller providers. I have already mentioned the researchers Verbon and Suijs who have investigated how much profit is being paid in healthcare. That was 1.2 billion in 2015. That is an incredibly large amount of money, and that is mainly with the relatively small suppliers. I have indicated that you need a basic set of financial data: the cash flows, the profit and loss account and the balance sheet. In addition, you need to know how much fte it is. Then you can easily see through data analysis that something is wrong when two FTEs make a profit of a few tons. Does Mrs Van den Berg agree with GroenLinks that such a basic set of financial data should apply to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u78	I'd like a response from the Minister. I call for clarity in the definitions. That is very important, otherwise you do not know exactly what can be called profit or how the real estate is valued. There is also a need for a clear set-up. Supervisors can then easily match cross-diagonal things with each other and quickly raise cowboys.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u79	That's good, 'cause you can't do that right now. We will really have to add something to this law on this point. I have tabled an amendment to this effect. It is good to hear that Mrs Van den Berg is making the same plea towards the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u80	We are also curious about the reaction of the rulers on this point. Internal control is often inadequate at health care institutions in the Netherlands. In Excel, you can automatically add, subtract, multiply or whatever you want. This could be arranged in the same way in financial systems in the care sector if internal control is in order. Preferably this should be done via IT, so that the control takes place automatically at the front. We understand from KPMG that in the United Kingdom it is a requirement for healthcare institutions to have an internal control system as well. In the Netherlands, however, internal control takes place only in some of the major health care institutions. I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The VVD rightly states that if a healthcare provider has unlawfully declared this may be a ground for refusing a permit. That is why we will support the VVD's amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. My fourth B is publicizing. Of course, it starts with the B of revealing to the outside world that you exist. As a CDA, we are therefore pleased that today we are dealing with the Accession Act healthcare providers. We hope that this law can enter into force quickly. We are of course particularly pleased that Minister Bruins already indicated in June 2018 that he would also make the obligation of consultation in acute care part of this law. But also the CDA has some concerns and questions. The law is aimed at reporting new healthcare providers. This means that many current healthcare providers do not come into the picture. The CDA wants a complete overview of the inspection and has therefore tabled an amendment together with GroenLinks to ensure that all current providers, including youth care providers, are also registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u81	That is the amendment to item No. 39 on the first bill. That has just been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition, the CDA is concerned whether the stock does not pollute from day one. The explanatory memorandum states on page 7 that if healthcare providers who already offer care go to another legal form, they do not have to re-apply and/or apply for authorisation. Why is there no obligation that a new notification should always be made or that a licence should be applied for in a different legal form, and that the old forms should then immediately lapse or be emptied? 'Cause as a supervisor, you might want to keep that information for a while. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. It is important for the CDA that when completing the notification questionnaire, not only process questions are asked, do you have knowledge of them? However, some questions are also put to the applicant to prove competence and/or competence such as a diploma, relevant work experience, etc. and whether there are other companies. I'd like a response from the Minister. That is why we also support D66's amendment to allow the Minister to extend the licence requirement by general administrative action. Mr. Chairman. We assume that care cooperatives where people take care of themselves can continue to exist. What does the new law mean to them? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Many of our questions were well answered by the rulers in the written round of questions, for which I am grateful. The CDA still has some further questions about the bill. We wonder whether the definition of "institution" is sufficient to include all e-health developments. After all, you can get digital and virtual care settings that do, for example, a skin analysis via an app and a photo. Will such new providers also be subject to reporting obligations? Do we correctly conclude that all healthcare providers covered by the Health Insurance Act as well as those covered by the Long-Term Care Act and the Youth Act now fall within the scope of the law? The CDA would also like to bring the protected living and the complete care package at home under the reach of the law. Indeed, the high risk is also faced by smaller healthcare providers who receive their compensation either through the pgb or through the procurement of protected housing. An example from the practice we heard from a director of a healthcare office. They regularly receive requests from companies to be admitted to care and funding under the Long-Term Care Act. The care office then checks whether there is good quality and if not, then no permission is given. So what do these little care providers do? They're gonna pull a long nose and start paying for themselves through the pgb. Do we correctly conclude that it is becoming too complex to deal with this now? I have just indicated at the interrupting that this is a concern for the CDA. According to Article 12, the fine is up to the third or fourth category, several thousand euros. That's a lot of money for a small healthcare provider, but not that much for a large healthcare provider. In our opinion, fines should hurt and be proportionate. Why has it not been chosen that all categories of fines should apply in principle? Is it true that in the bill the current or old healthcare providers get two years to apply for a licence again? I think Mr. Hijink... no, Mr. Kerstens asked that question too; Mr. Hijink is after me. Why wasn't a shorter period chosen, for example a year? In the technical briefing we had, it appeared that there are many institutions, apparently even around 1,500, with a licence that is de facto empty. The CDA would like an unused permit to expire after, for example, three months. I'd like a response from the rulers. Have we correctly concluded in the general consultation Inspection on the basis of the commitment to Mrs Agema that all healthcare providers are obliged to report fraud and/or incompetence and lack of competence in the alert register? Where is this recorded? Mr President, then my fifth B: competent and reliable drivers. Man is inclined to do good, but it helps when a few eyes look at it. Hence the fifth B: competent and reliable directors, good management, but also independent supervision. Because a single rotten apple can affect an entire basket of apples. As has been said, the CDA welcomes this law. However, my input will also make it clear that we would like to impose even more requirements on governance and administrative hygiene. The Minister states that he is still coming up with the Bill of Internal Business Care Providers. We look forward to that. As an advance on this, I tabled, together with my colleague Evert Jan Slootweg, a motion on increased demands on drivers during the budget debate. That is why we want to support the Christian Union amendment on internal supervision. An example for example. Dismantling with institution A seems to be a recommendation to try again at institution B. In response to questions from the VVD, Minister De Jonge replied some time ago that if a driver is hired, he can see if there is anything in his vog, his statement about the behaviour. We see that many institutions, if they have had to deal with mispolicy by directors, really do not want to start a trial against the driver or the members of the supervisory board. So there is never really a note, often because the members of the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board themselves have agreed to the plans. And so these people can keep trying to become a care driver, paid with tax money. We ask doctors to be qualified, but we do not ask directors, supervisory board members and supervisory board members to do so. This is hard for us to say. The CDA would like the inspection to be maintained on the basis of the governance code in sectors that have signed the code, and thus also in independent clinics that have created their own code. Furthermore, the CDA calls on the Minister to sit down with other sectors as well, so that there is a single code for the whole concern, with possible additional annexes by sector, and so that it can be maintained. Institutions and directors who are not members of the Dutch Association of Supervisors in Health, or of the Dutch Association of Administrators in Health, should also be subject to a heavier regime. And there must be an obligation for continuing training. Finally. Can the Minister indicate when we can expect this proposal for a law to operate with integrity care providers at the latest in the House of Representatives? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you very much for your input. The next speaker is Mr Van der Staaij. He speaks on behalf of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you are receiving home care or if you need child care, it is important that you can be sure that good care is provided. It is therefore logical that we in the Netherlands also make demands on the quality of care. It makes sense for healthcare providers to comply. And it is, of course, about how money flows are handled, about business management, about how governance, governance structures and supervision are put together. We want the money for care in the Netherlands to be spent efficiently and lawfully. And we want to prevent healthcare providers from making a mess of it or deliberately trying to bottle it with all kinds of complicated constructions. And yes, fortunately there are a lot of healthcare providers who do their job in a good way, but we also have a serious problem with those who do not follow the rules, or who try to abuse them. We have to do something about that, and this bill also wants to do something about it. A reporting obligation and a licensing obligation are introduced. Furthermore, all healthcare providers covered by the licence obligation are required to comply with a number of transparency requirements, including the appointment of an independent internal supervisor and the disclosure of finance. And, Mr President, let me be clear: the SGP supports the purpose of this bill. We share the concern about the mess with care money, we think it is important that the high quality of care in our country stays high and that it is monitored and we understand that the government is looking for it, and we support it for handles to also combat fraud and impose demands on management, quality and governance structures. We are also very pleased with the scope and use of the instrument of reporting and licensing. And yet, frankly, I do feel at home with Mrs Ellemeet's sigh. I'm used to reading the text of the law quietly to read apart from all the explanations we say yes to. Do you have the feeling that this is going to work now, that this is enough, that this is effective? Then I still have a number of important questions. This is very informative, so that in this debate I would like to listen carefully to the explanatory memorandum on the legislative proposal, and I would also like to keep an eye on what happens to so many amendments that have been tabled and what the ultimate effect of these amendments would be if they were adopted. There are three points that are important to us. To what extent is it effective now, are you really going to catch the fraudsters with the plans we are now setting out here? But what does it mean in the second place for the regulatory burden? Ten minutes before this, twenty minutes before that, you read, so it all seems to be not so bad. Nevertheless, what does all the measures ultimately mean, taking into account amendments, for the regulatory burden that the institutions have to deal with? When we talk about line pressure, we all say it should be as low as possible. In election campaigns, this is always very important: remember, remember, remember, remember. But once again, when it comes to a good cause in itself, such as the fight against fraud or the increase in quality, we come up with a lot of rules. My concern is therefore what the overall picture is. Letters of amendment have also been issued. That is important in order to make the right balance. It may sometimes be necessary to get additional rules, but is that proportionate to the purpose we serve with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u85	I understand your point, especially when you consider that at the moment, for example, in the ggz 30% to 40% of the time goes on paperwork. But that's permanent, every day. We are now, of course, talking about the regulatory burden that would apply if you, as a new healthcare provider, had to apply for a single permit. Whether, as a self-employed person, as a smaller or as a larger healthcare institution, you have to apply for a single permit, I think that is of a slightly different order. I mean, if I'm gonna build a rooftop, I'm gonna have to get a permit, too. Can you expect that, when you start a care institution, you also have a rather important license? That's not so much regulatory pressure, is it? Does Mr Van der Staaij agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u86	It's also a bit about the stacking. That's what you saw in the letter from the first-line organizations. You have to deal with the rules on privacy, the GDPR, the Health and Force Act and these regulations. Each one seems to be not so bad and is reasonable. I am not saying that that is why I am against this bill, but I am just saying that it is an important weighting point for us that you should always keep an eye on the regulatory burden. Proposals have also been made to see whether this should also apply to existing institutions. You can see that coming back in some of the amendments. If you want to combat fraud effectively, all the requirements will not only be reviewed at one time, but you will want to have further information on this in order to be able to exercise proper supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u87	A nice article has been published about the small health insurance company DSW. DSW has about 1,200 institutions and providers on a kind of blacklist that they know of: something is wrong somewhere. They say that it does not make much sense to carry out a lot of checks and checks on fraud. The point is that right from the start, when you get in, you make sure that bad guys don't get a chance. So it is much smarter to check the access very sharply at the beginning, so that the door is locked properly for crooks who want to enter. This way you avoid that later in the process, if there is already a declaration and a lot of care money has been wasted, you have to sit on top of it until the end of time and then still have to look where it went wrong. Surely it must be very clear that you can intervene better at the beginning than...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u88	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u89	Does Mr Van der Staaij agree that it is better to intervene at the beginning with a proper licensing obligation than to conclude later in the process that you have not actually checked properly and that you have to get them off again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u90	Yes, I recognize the point that Mr Hijink raises, but I can see dilemmas again. I understood that in response to last week's article in Elsevier, DSW said that you should look more closely at whether institutions come up with a good business plan or business plan and the composition of the staff and the qualifications they have. These are good points, but these are also typical examples of things that are not just static, one-time issues. These things could turn out quite differently later on. The question then is: which people do you hire and what do they have to meet again? So yes, it is very important to be very critical at the beginning, but you also do not avoid all the problems with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr Van der Staaij continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mr. Chairman. In addition to regulatory pressure and effectiveness, a third point of review is important, namely clarity and legal certainty. I always find it very annoying, to put it mildly, when institutions have to sort of hire desks to determine how the rules are put together. Let us at least do everything in our power to provide as much clarity as possible. One of the drawbacks that I see when I let these pieces work on me is that there is also a certain degree of continuity. Thought hasn't stopped. You'll come across notes of change again. There are also issues that are dealt with in a new legislative proposal. I understand that, but I do wonder whether at some point this is not going to be all mixed up, such as "no, this requirement is already in force, and this requirement applies again on the basis of future rules." It's all so close right now. So I have a number of questions about that. Let me make it concrete right away, otherwise it will remain so general. For example, I was just looking at the internal supervisor. That's a key word you'll also find in this law. In principle, every healthcare provider should set up one, but there are also exceptions to that. When you read the law, you don't know what you're up to. Indeed, you have the legal framework, but you also have to deal with a general measure of governance in which far-reaching exceptions are possible and where there are still far-reaching colours to be met. Should this clarity not be provided in the law itself, as suggested by the Council of State? It's all so tucked away in lower regulation now. I'd also like to get a response to that point. But you're not there yet. As a supervisor, you also have to deal with the governance code. If you don't stick to that, you're gonna get the insurance company on your pants when it comes to an insurance relationship. He says: have you met the requirements of the governance code? And now you also have to deal with the announced law on the integrity of the business. In this context, the government has said that it is going to look at how the internal supervisory authority can be strengthened and completed. The current internal supervisory regime is thus again being overtaken and extended in the short term. I also understand that you can't say: it's all too complicated; you have a few rules in the law and then it's clear to everyone. The charm of simplicity always appeals to us. We're gonna be a long way from that. But the question is whether this accumulation of rules is just a matter of taking that one example of the internal supervisory authority does not bring with it a great deal of confusion, outwardly, but quite frankly also for ourselves. We must make the political weighting as to whether the set of measures that lie ahead is reasonable in relation to effectiveness on the one hand and the regulatory pressure on the other. I mentioned those benchmarks at the beginning. It is quite difficult to make that weighting if you still have so little control over how that is finally filled out. That is why I would like to see as much distinction as possible between the Wtza and the announced Act of integrity. I would say: let there be as little overlap as possible. It would be very nice to regulate the regulator in this law and the financial aspects, around dividend payments and so on, in a separate one. But if we are going to deal with all kinds of issues in two laws, then I am afraid that it is going to be very opaque. And then I see the mood, because I have seen the reasoning of the rulers: you know, the thinking does not stand still and we do now a and then comes as soon as possible b, but let's not wait for that, because then we lose time. I understand that, but I have seen a number of times in the meantime that we followed that reasoning in the House of Representatives and dealt with laws separately and that a bill in the House of Representatives stayed in the fridge for a while because they said: we want to see that of course in conjunction. That time savings will only actually be achieved if you are able to indicate that this bill is really very different and very clearly defined in relation to the future bill. They will look at the amendments anyway. The more you regulate all kinds of issues in two laws, the sooner everything will be held up and the First Chamber is expected to press the pause button. The Council of State is actually giving some hints in that direction. He too asks the question: what exactly is the situation? My appeal is actually very concrete to see if indeed as much as possible... For example, the point of the internal supervisor will be further coloured by an amendment by Mrs Dik-Faber and others. Is that what we're dealing with? Should we no longer have to say 'this will be in the other law', or is it going to get mixed up again? So I'd like some more insight into that demarcation. Mr. Chairman. Then about the question of what the law adds. The question is not only what else is coming and what is already there, but also what exactly the law adds to the instruments that the government already has at its disposal to tackle abuses and fraud. The Council of State also indicated that it is not clear in advance that the completion of a questionnaire by each new healthcare provider directly leads to an improvement in the quality of care and its monitoring. In this respect, I would like to hear a specific example of what such a licence requirement looks like and what requirements are imposed on it. Is that really going to add a lot and help to those fraudsters, the people with evil intentions, and all the nicer grabbers, what words are not all put on it? Can you filter it out? I loved the recital of the law. It is also mentioned in the explanatory statement, but I would like to hear a more dressed example of what that looks like, so that you can really see that this is going to help and what its added value is. Finally, Mr President. I have already asked many questions concerning the reduction of regulatory pressure, but finally I do so about effectiveness. In the documents and comments I saw it come back regularly: we can make all kinds of additional demands, but the inspection will eventually carry out risk-oriented monitoring with limited capacity. Does the inspection have sufficient capacity to act effectively, with this law in its hands and with all the additional data collected? That question has also been raised here. Mr President, those were my first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you very much. However, a question from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr Van der Staaij has given a series of informative questions to both ministers. I have an informative question for Mr Van der Staaij. He started his contribution with: you'd only need home care or you'd only need youth support. Now a part of home care is done through the municipalities on the basis of the Wmo, the Social Support Act. It doesn't fall under this law. The obligation to notify, the obligation to permit, shall not apply to the healthcare providers active therein. What does Mr Van der Staaij think of that? Does he think that like me and others, or does he say, "Well, yeah?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u95	I understand that reasoning, which has also been changed in the documents, namely that you say that you also have to do with how the system and the responsibility are put together. But I also saw several amendments saying: wouldn't you like this or that? For example, I thought Mrs Ellemeet wanted to see the role of the NZa more explicitly. I certainly think that is sympathetic and understandable proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u96	That's clear. If the Chamber does not manage to regulate some of these matters in the law, is Mr Van der Staaij open to another way, at another time? I think that he too thinks that we want what we all want, pure business operations, preventing fraud on the part of the providers who are covered by this law, also for providers who are covered by the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u97	Yes, but also respecting that we do not cross that whole system, and that at the same time the Wmo is a law that also requires a local responsibility. So we're not gonna take that entirely, because then we're gonna cross the whole system, no matter how understandable those desires are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mrs Ellemeet with a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u99	If I have heard Mr Van der Staaij correctly, he says: for me too, the core is to deal with abuses; that is what we want with this law, that is the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u101	Well, we'll share that. What is important for this is that there is sufficient information in the supervisory authorities to deal with these abuses. I have indicated that, when it comes to the financial abuses, the siphoning of money, the payout of too high profits, we need more transparency about the finances of also smaller healthcare providers, where those cowboys often go. Does Mr Van der Staaij share the importance that GroenLinks attaches to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yes. I think that the amendment is a good one, and I think that it is a good one. 22 Oomen-Ruijten (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Ellemeet on her excellent report. Look, as the SGP Group, we often tend to want to protect all small businesses against all kinds of special requirements for supervisors and whatever. But I also see her point very clearly. If we look again at where you see these abuses, then I also hear that it can be just as well with those eenpitters, and it is very useful to see how you can easily get them in the picture. Is it then the way to apply the whole law, so to speak, to that little one? Well, that shoots, I think, over and next to the target. I find it interesting that Mrs Ellemeet says: look precisely at the demand for financial transparency, data that they should already report to the Tax Office. So you can monitor that at the same time. So I think it is an extremely sympathetic proposal that she has made on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u103	Having heard Mr Van der Staaij, I ask myself the following. He says he sometimes struggles with the amount of administrative burdens, but on the other hand he also wants to ensure that fraud is dealt with and that abuse of care money is prevented. What does he think of the CDA proposal that all current providers should also report under the law? Now they're often still under the radar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u104	Yes, I understand that point, also coming back to the interrupting debate with Mr Hijink, who says that it is not that bad now, only when you look at the beginning. However, Mrs van den Berg of the CDA Group is right to say that we would, of course, spare the present. But this also means an additional pressure on institutions that have already done so without any problems and have passed all the supervision. What exactly does it mean for these institutions? That is a question which comes back to me precisely as a result of the reduction in the burden of burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mrs. Van den Berg, that was enough? This is about the amendment to item No. 21 on the second bill, but that's now no. 24 years old. It has been amended and distributed. I'm saying this for those who keep up with all that. Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mr Hijink has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law should be about how we are going to scare the cowboys out of care and how we can put an end to market forces and competition in healthcare. It is precisely this competition and market forces that have made care so unnecessarily expensive. The SP always says it: not the care is too expensive, but this healthcare system is too expensive. That's a bad thing. It is also bad for those hundreds of thousands of caregivers who once again work with heart and soul for their patients and clients every day. They deserve much better. They deserve a system that is not so money-driven. As a politician, we must do everything we can to ensure that they can do their job as well as possible. No bullshit bureaucracy. No imposed competition where cooperation is necessary. Nor should we leave room for evildoers who want to fill their own pockets with care money. We must put an end to this as soon as possible. As far as the SP is concerned, such types cannot be dealt with hard enough. These rotten apples abuse care money for their own financial gain. It's theft, of patients, of caregivers, and ultimately of our society. It has often been said: you can start a healthcare institution in the Netherlands faster than a snack bar. Countless examples are to be found, of whole or half criminals who in one and a half days set up a care institution and start declaring whether or not care is provided. It has been a thorn in the eye for years, but it is also the health insurance companies, not necessarily always the natural ally of the SP, a thorn in the eye. They also think this scam should stop. Infamous is the example of Alliade. Mrs Van den Berg has already mentioned this. This caremoloch was ruined by profit and grab behaviour. Drivers locked money away through complicated e.g. constructions. If we want care to get better, then we have to chase all the care cowboys with pitch and feathers out of care. Clear rules can help. The same applies to the law we are discussing today. The admission of health care providers I have just said to Mr Van der Staaij: "It is a very important moment to be able to determine whether a healthcare provider is fit to proceed or not." Mr. Chairman. The SP is positive about the reporting obligation that is now coming for new healthcare providers, because it is of course quite strange that you as a healthcare provider can now get started without the inspection even knowing of your existence. Compare that with the start of a catering establishment. In addition to the registration with the Chamber of Commerce, you must have an operating permit and a liquor and catering permit. You need to be registered with the NVWA, the supervisor. You have to meet all kinds of hygiene requirements around the HACCP. There are environmental rules and rules on fire safety. Maybe there's an integrity test, too, if that's possible. And that while healthcare providers now often have a form of automatic admission. It is quite right that this cabinet should want to put an end to this. Mr. Chairman. But the question is: are we there with the obligation to report? Are the conditions laid down by the cabinet in this obligation to provide good care sufficient to ensure that no more criminals are allowed? The SP has serious doubts about this. I ask the Minister: does he agree with me that you cannot really talk about conditions such as completing a simple questionnaire containing questions about the organisation of the healthcare provider and the quality of care requirements? There is talk of filling out a list. Filling that out takes a maximum of ten minutes. Is that enough to keep people who are evil at bay? A questionnaire doesn't necessarily bring with it a sense of quality, does it? Mrs Van den Berg also spoke in previous debates about a paper reality. I think that's the nail on his head. A check mark is quickly set. Mr. Chairman. I also had to think about the play in Elsevier about DSW. It said how easy it can now be to become a healthcare institution, a healthcare provider. The example was mentioned of a cat litter trader who went into community care from one day to the next. A check on the diplomas will not be done. It's just really easy to get to work. I think, like DSW, that it is now far too easy and that the reporting obligation in that sense is not enough. How does the Minister prevent the malicious from properly complying with the obligation to report, then start declaring and re-applying as a new provider if it gets too hot for them? We have previously understood that 89% of healthcare providers do not meet the conditions for proper care at an initial inspection visit. 89%, that's really a lot. I'll ask the Minister how he looks at that. I would also like to ask the Minister if it often happens that healthcare providers are not visited, because last year the NOS headlined that of the more than 23,000 healthcare organisations established between January 2016 and September 2017 the IGJ, the inspection, but 571 of them visited. That is, of course, very little. The monitoring of the inspection is risk-driven and therefore based on reports or striking behaviour. My question to both directors is: is this enough to avoid the major problems and how does this relate to the supervision of existing providers? The question has been asked several times, including by others, when we talk about the capacity at the IGJ, at the inspection. Can they handle these new tasks, or are we trying to create something here that the IGJ can't meet? I would like to hear from both directors whether the capacity is in order, whether it needs to be expanded, and whether it is not enough to carry out these new tasks. As SP, we have often asked questions about municipalities that are surprised by the fact that a youth care provider is located at a certain address. How is that possible? How can you, as a municipality, know whether a hairdressing salon or a kebab shop is located somewhere, but you don't know that a provider starts delivering youth care? The SP welcomes the fact that the Minister added the Youth Act to the notification requirement in the third letter of amendment. This is very important because it is going to give a much better picture, including for the inspection, of which new providers are in the youth care sector and what exactly they provide for care. Can the Minister indicate exactly how the cooperation between the inspection and the municipality with the new reporting obligation is going to work? Do municipalities, for example, receive a signal at the same time as the inspection that a new provider is established? How's this process going? And what about the cooperation between the inspection and the municipality? It has been said many times: it would of course have been nice for the Minister in the more than two and a half years that this law has been here to also use the opportunity to make the Social Support Act, the Wmo, part of the law that we are discussing today. That a reporting obligation would apply there too. 'Cause it's been said before. A lot of the abuses we see, the care cowboys when it comes to guided living or something else, a lot of care cowboys are exactly active in municipal care. So if you want to take action against it, we should be on top of it much more and not leave it to the municipalities in which supervision is too often inadequate. It is also no secret that the SP wants stricter supervision of municipal care. We also see almost weekly examples, especially when it comes to supervised living, where care cowboys run off with the money, while people don't get the care they need. So my question to the Minister is: why isn't the WMO included under the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act, the Wkkgz, and thus also under the Wtza, the law that we are discussing today? Previously, the Minister talked about a continuous learning process when it comes to the coordination between local and national supervision, but what has this learning process achieved so far, if quality is still inadequate in so many places? Municipalities should check it themselves or have it checked. In some regions incidents are reported and addressed, but in another region, which is similar in terms of population size, no emergency reports are made at all. It is, of course, very dubious that this should happen. That simply means that in many places supervision is not good for each other. Does the Minister share that independent supervision should not depend on the postal code where the provider is established? Is the Minister prepared to invest Wmo supervision independently, for example by allowing the IGJ and the GGD to cooperate much better? Mr. Chairman. Then I want to talk about the licensing obligation. Improving the reporting obligation is a good thing, but it would be even better if all healthcare providers were simply to be subject to licensing. The cabinet now chooses to introduce a licensing requirement for healthcare providers with more than ten healthcare providers in service. That's not particularly smart. It is not just big institutions where things go wrong. In fact, and that is what you hear from the financiers in the care, it is often the small institutions too, and the sum of very many small providers that make the inspection and the financiers in the care find it very complicated to be able to monitor expenditure properly. And especially for small organisations or self-employed people, it is now childishly easy to raise their own income and achieve huge profits, up to 50%, or, as Mrs van den Berg said, up to 200%. I would like to mention the example of home care organisation Naborgh, set up in 2015 by a nurse who had already paid a million euros in profit to himself in 2017 and raised almost half a million euros in administrative fees. Employees stated that declared care was not always given and that indications were pushed up or even faked. The records at the office looked very different from those folders we know at the clients' house. This organisation would be subject to the Minister's new rules but not to the licensing obligation. Since a notification requires only a checklist, there is a great chance that these kinds of abuses will simply repeat themselves. Can the Minister respond to that? How does he think this law is going to put an end to this type of care fraud? Can the Minister explain why all healthcare providers should not be licensed to provide care? The SP has already tabled an amendment on this issue last summer, so that all healthcare providers are covered by this authorisation requirement. That is the amendment to item No. 24 that the amendment to item No. 13 replaces. I'd like a response to that amendment. Mr. Chairman. We have also seen the coalition compromise to close this gap with regard to licensing. They propose that the authorisation requirement may be extended, if necessary and even temporarily, to healthcare providers employing less than 10 healthcare providers and operating in certain risk sectors. At the SP, this amendment appears to be a very ugly compromise. I'd like to ask the Minister how he looks at it. Does he think that, in the context of equality of treatment and equality of justice, we in this country should make a distinction between small care providers providing care in the care of the elderly and those providing care in the care of the disabled, for example, or in the care of the neighbourhood? What, according to the Minister, justifies such a distinction? How is it prevented from being arbitrary and caregivers have to re-examine each year at what time and in what sector exactly a licence requirement is required? Does the Minister recognise that, where the proposers from the coalition argue that this proposal will reduce administrative burdens, this amendment actually amounts to a total lack of clarity in which sector, at what time and with what number of healthcare providers in service should or should not apply for a permit? What risk sectors does the Minister see at the moment which would be eligible for an additional licence requirement in accordance with this amendment? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr Hijink is right to talk about the abuses that we also see with the smaller suppliers. He says that if we only apply the licensing requirement for relatively large suppliers, we miss a very large group where many of these abuses take place. That's why he's proposing the licensing requirement. He says that the coalition's proposal excludes groups, which in his view becomes shady because then the question is who is excluded or not, whether it is fair and whether it solves the problems. Could the simple solution not be the proposal made by GroenLinks, namely that you ask for a basic set of financial data for all institutions? This way you do not impose the additional burden of a licence obligation on small institutions. There are a lot of good things in between that charge you otherwise with a lot of extra administration. Moreover, you avoid excluding entire groups from any obligation to provide information as proposed by the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u108	I think that GroenLinks' proposal is very good that you also allow smaller suppliers with lower turnover to do the accountability well. I think that is a very valid proposal. Only, I would not want to separate that from a licensing requirement that should apply to any healthcare provider. I just find it very difficult to explain that if I want to place a rooftop on my house, I have to apply for a permit and I don't have to apply for a permit if I want to go into the neighborhood with injection needles in people. I honestly do not understand that it is such a problem to let providers who come to provide care to people, at home or somewhere else, go through the mill to see if they are good. I think that is very logical and very important. This should not only apply to institutions with more than 10 healthcare providers, it should apply to everyone, which also helps to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u109	I could go a long way with that. My only concern is that the licensing obligation includes all kinds of requirements that do not fit as well with smaller suppliers. That's actually the concern I have. Aren't you going to impose something completely inappropriate on smaller providers? If there are two people working, in the neighbourhood care or wherever in the care of the elderly, it is difficult to ask them to set up an internal supervisor there as well. That doesn't make any sense, so that's my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u110	That's right, and that makes sense. If you care on your own, it's very complicated to appoint an internal supervisor in your own head. I understand that very well. We have also taken this into account in our amendment. The Minister may exclude certain rules for soloists per AMvB. We have emphasised this in our amendment. When it comes to the licensing requirement for soloists, for self-employed people, you obviously do not take with you the requirements of an internal supervisor. That would be a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u111	Finalizing, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u112	Rounding up. Those are the soloists, but of course you also have really small providers, who work with a number of others. You can also say that some of the requirements we are now imposing on the larger providers really miss their goal for smaller providers. I think it should be more than just soloists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u113	Sure, but there's already a hook in the law to fix that. The Minister can already ensure by general measure of governance that such rules do not apply to very small providers. How to fill that out is too detailed for now, but I think it is very good that all healthcare providers are subject to a licence requirement in the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u114	However, I would like to say a few words about the coalition amendment, as Mr Hijink says. My amendment, together with my fellow Members, creates an opportunity to add any categories on the basis of analysis. There's nothing wrong with that, is there? You do that instead of saying: all the rules are the same for everyone, even if you are a small entrepreneur. I think Mrs Ellemeet was right to say that having an internal supervisor when you're a one-pitter is complete nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u115	Didn't I just answer that question? I have just said in detail to Mrs Ellemeet that our amendment takes this into account, and that it can be arranged by general measure of governance that, for example, the requirement of an internal supervisor does not apply to the one-pitter. That's pretty weedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u116	You're gonna have to go back to excluding it. Then you'll make it very, very complicated. It is a pity that Mr Hijink does not answer my question: there is nothing wrong with looking at what needs to be done on the basis of a good analysis. Again, for the SP, regulation pressure may not be such a hot item, but it is for us. We really think it's too hard to say that all the rules should be the same for everyone. What's wrong with doing the analysis first and adding any categories on that basis? There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u117	A good law is also a clear law. What the coalition is doing with this amendment is creating enormous uncertainty. They create chaos, I'll say. The Minister says that anyone who employs more than ten healthcare providers must comply with the licensing requirement. The SP says: from one healthcare provider you have to comply with the licence requirement. Those are two pretty clear directions you can choose from. But what does the coalition do? It says: we are going to be a little bit involved and we are going to give the Minister the possibility, by general measure, of temporarily imposing a certain category of caregivers on a temporary basis. So if you're working in the neighborhood care or somewhere else, that means you have to look again every year to see whether or not the licensing requirement applies to you that year. I believe that clarity will help the sector. This means that you have to choose: the licence requirement applies to anyone who wants to work in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mrs Bergkamp, concluding, because you also have your own time limit to explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u119	I think this has been done in part. What Mr Hijink is not saying when it comes to the clarity of his amendment is that it is not the same. He has just indicated in the interruption with Mrs Ellemeet: we need to look at what is true and what is true for certain groups, and perhaps we need to come up with a lighter regime. To be honest, I think that Mr Hijink's amendment is causing chaos. So I guess it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u120	The only thing for me is that you can't demand from azzp'er or a self-employed person that he has an internal supervisor. We have already written that in our own amendment, and I have already answered that question with regard to Mrs Ellemeet. I don't know how Mrs Bergkamp sees that. You're on your own and then you've got an internal supervisor somewhere in your room. It just can't be. We have emphasised in our amendment that we do not have to. And then you have a very clear proposal, namely: anyone who is going to provide care, under the Health Insurance Act or under the Long-Term Care Act, must comply with the licensing obligation. That is a very clear proposal. I really think that is an improvement, not only in relation to what the cabinet wants, but also in relation to what the coalition is proposing now, because what the coalition is proposing is really dangerous. You don't know anymore and the Minister can decide every day that the licensing obligation should apply to another sector. That's not an effective route, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr Hijink continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u122	I'd like to talk about the subcontractors. Is it true that at the moment the inspection cannot directly intervene with a healthcare provider working as a subcontractor? The Council of State is making a point of this following the third letter of amendment. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that the obligation to notify does not in fact change the way in which the inspection monitors healthcare providers working as subcontractors. Then why didn't the Minister opt for an adjustment of the Wkkgz on this point? Surely it would be much better if the inspection could be maintained directly on both the main contractor and the subcontractor? Mrs Ellemeet made that point earlier. I think that makes perfect sense. Does the Minister not think that main contractors will be much more careful if they know that they can also be taken into account for the quality of care provided by subcontractors? Couldn't the more equalization of the supervision of subcontractors and main contractors put the brakes on the whole concept of subcontracting? Doesn't the Minister think, like the SP, that it is a very bad development that more and more subcontractors are working while we all know that this leads to the constructions that lead to the lockdown of care money? I have already said this to Mrs van den Berg. We should have a lot less of that kind of construction anyway. The SP together with GroenLinks has tabled an amendment to bring subcontractors under the scope of the Wkkgz. This seems to us to be a logical way of ensuring that the inspection can monitor the quality of care provided by these subcontractors. That's number 18, chairman of the first law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u123	Well, I think that number belongs to the second law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u124	The second law? Okay. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the discussion about the other consequences of subcontracting in the care sector. Can the Minister clarify exactly what the consequences of this law are for the group of subcontractors? They will be subject to reporting obligations and accountability. We think this is good news, because we know that through subcontractors the most care money goes to people who want to make too much money in healthcare. This change has already been proposed by the SP... I am talking about accountability... in September 2018 in an amendment that received number 9. It is good that one year after this amendment was tabled, the Minister accepted this proposal. Couldn't you have thanked me? No, I'm not. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u125	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u126	Here's to it. But I have to withdraw this amendment now, number 9, because that doesn't make any sense anymore, because it is already in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u127	The Heink amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u128	I'll come back to your contribution about the sub-providers. Do you agree with us that the PVV's amendment that has been in force for two years now provides for this? In other words, will you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u129	Yeah, we're gonna support that. I do need to think carefully about what that amendment says. It's about subcontractors and profit distribution, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u130	The ban on profit distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u131	What we are trying to avoid is that you are indeed going to work with subcontractors that are profit-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u132	We will, of course, support that. The PVV indeed tabled an amendment a long time ago to oblige healthcare providers not to outsource their work to profit-making healthcare providers. That's the PVV amendment. We will support that, but I will say straight away that we have tabled an amendment of our own which goes on. In any case, we want to get rid of the whole phenomenon of benefits in healthcare, not just with subcontractors, but with all healthcare providers. However, this is in that sense a sloppy broth. This sounds unpleasant, but that is not what I mean. No, this is a small part of the total profit ban that we would like in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u133	Sometimes a weak broth is also very good, so support is welcome in that respect. We shall return to this in our own contribution. Then perhaps Mr Hijink can get a better idea of what we mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr Jansen's amendment has now received a number: 23 on the second law. It was the amendment in part No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u135	Right. We will certainly support that. There's no discussion about that at all. Only the question is how far you want to go by banning the distribution of profits in healthcare. The cabinet does not want to give its opinion on this at this stage. The PVV now says that this should apply to subcontractors in the care sector. We believe that we should prohibit all healthcare providers from making profits to private shareholders or other investors. That is the difference between the two amendments. We see that this law does not regulate the licensing of subcontractors and also does not eliminate through subcontracting the prohibition of profit distribution and the Top Income Standards Act. That is why we have tabled an amendment, the amendment to item No. 25. I'm asking the Minister to go into that. Is it true that with the new Wtza, which we are discussing today, it is still possible for a subcontractor to pay out profits because it is not covered by the definition of an institution as laid down in the Wkkgz? And is it true that in the same way the Top Income Standards Act does not apply if you subcontract your care to a subcontractor? Let me give you the example that was already in the newspaper in 2005. An ophthalmologist from Heerhugowaard neatly sends a letter to the Ministry in which he asks if he is covered by the Wet norming top incomes. After six months, it takes quite a while to get the ophthalmologist's answer. Thank you for your question, but you are not part of the WNT, writes the Director-General curative care of the Ministry. The WNT applies only to healthcare providers who have a WTZi authorisation and such authorisation does not have the eye centre. The eye centre hangs as for example under a foundation that does have a WTZi authorisation. With that simple trick, rules about profits and top incomes can be easily evaded, because once a foundation has an admission, it can declare. Even if the actual care is outsourced to people who are heavily paid in an e.g. making massive profits, there is no way to stop it. It's perverse, but it's possible, and it still happens. My question to the Minister is how this law is going to change this. Is it true that despite the introduction of the reporting obligation and accountability for subcontractors, the prohibition of profit distribution and the WNT can still be fully bypassed? If that is the case, does the Minister not find it a little embarrassing that, after all the discussions we have had about health cowboys and after all the media actions in which he has said that all these constructions should no longer be possible, he leaves the way to these kinds of constructions wide open? I would say that we should stop doing so now. We have had this law for two and a half years, so it must be possible to stop it now? The SP has tabled an amendment to bring all licensed healthcare providers under the WNT. This amendment has been tabled very recently, so I do not know what number this amendment has been given. Failure to comply with the WNT should, as far as we are concerned, be a ground for refusal of authorisation. I ask the Cabinet to respond to this proposal. Let me turn to the point I was talking about just now with Mr Jansen of the PVV: the discussion on the distribution of benefits in health care. What is the situation, I ask the cabinet, with the implementation of the motion for a resolution of the CDA? Ms Keijzer asked on 31 January 2017 to come up with proposals to ban benefits in outpatient long-term care, as in the case of inpatient long-term care. That is a clear mission of the cabinet from the Lower House. My question to the government is why it has still not implemented this motion. According to rough estimates by professors Suijs and Verbon. Ms Ellemeet has also mentioned.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are hundreds of e.g. who provide care and pay profits to their shareholders. Sometimes the shareholder is also the director of the institutions, so that it can not only earn a good salary, but also pay a profit to itself. 1.2 billion a year. We are talking very often about rising healthcare costs and the fact that care would no longer be affordable. However, I would like to stress that 1.2 billion is available, every year, to pay out to investors, to capitalists in care, who want to make a good living out of your premium money and your taxpayers' money. That money is, of course, meant for care, and it should also go to care. We therefore propose today to extend the prohibition on profit distribution to all healthcare providers. Healthcare providers may have a profit in the sense that they may have a plus at the end of the year. You can never come to exactly zero; that makes sense. So we do not want a ban on profit, we want a ban on profit distribution. So the money left at the end of the year should return the following year to care and not disappear into investors' pockets. I'm asking the government to embrace that proposal. Caregivers who work hard in healthcare can make a good living as far as the SP is concerned. As far as we are concerned, these nurses, caregivers and many others are entitled to some higher wages. But handy guys who abuse care to fill their own pockets, we can spare as toothache. They're only looking for another place to do that. That's not what our care money, our premium money, our taxpayers' money is for. Even Minister De Jonge has, as I understand it, been hanging over his bed a sign saying: care is not a market. It is, of course, nice that this minister is going to publish SP texts more and more often, but I would like to tell him, especially since he is from Rotterdam: if you use such words, there are also actions. He must be sensitive to that. If you dare to say every time, equal to the SP, that care is not a market, then there must be action. I would like to ask him, especially when it comes to the distribution of profits: where are the measures? Mr. Chairman. The current healthcare system makes profit-making possible. Many healthcare providers have split up since 2006. For the real estate, for the staff, for the ICT, for each part you can set up a separate e.g. That's convenient, so one of them can go bankrupt once in a while. But it is also useful for drivers, who can allocate extra income via those e.g.. themselves. Can the Minister comment on the statement by Het Financieele Dagblad that this division has also led to the ever-disrupting of accountability by healthcare providers? Is it true that a lot of healthcare providers still need to publish limited financial statements? What does the proposal mean, then, that the annual responsibility for subcontractors will become mandatory? Is this information going to be useful, or are we going to allow ourselves, as a Chamber, to be fooled again by the Minister from the cabinet? I very much agree with what Mrs van den Berg said about this: if we do not have a very clear responsibility from all the different healthcare providers, including the subcontractors, and if we only see very broad pieces, we will of course know nothing at the end of the day. In what way is the NZa going to carry out this supervision better than the IGJ is doing at the moment? That is one of the elements of this bill: monitoring is being cut up. The NZa is going to supervise the financial side, the IGJ is going to supervise the quality of care. What means do they get their hands on? Does the NZa, like the IGJ, rely on incident reports, or is the NZa also much more active in looking for abuses and constructions, with e.g., or in other ways, with which care money is channelled away? This morning we had another debate on the ggz and the question of how complicated it is sometimes to maintain care and how little that happens by the Dutch Health Authority. I would like to ask the Minister: if he chooses in this law to cut the supervision between the IGJ and the NZa, what assignment will the NZa be given? Is she going to be given an order to maintain more strongly and to do so more actively, or is she going to remain the watchdog without teeth, as we see it very often now? We know that the IGJ has been dealing very little with financial statements lately, simply because of course it does not have the capacity to do so. I would like to hear from the Minister what assurances we are getting that this is going to happen now that the NZa is going to take over. Mr. Chairman. Also when it comes to good governance, this bill leaves a lot to be desired as far as the SP is concerned. It is not clear how it is prevented that a driver who has caused malpractice can easily go back to work elsewhere. What does this law do to prevent this? Is a test done by the CIBG and the inspection enough to stop these people? How is cooperation between public authorities working on this? Can the Minister explain once again how the test is conducted on the basis of integrity? How are founders and directors checked for their business operations in the past? But above all: how do we prevent drivers who have caused abuses, fraud or other abuses from simply starting a new care organisation? If they are only subject to reporting obligations, how can we prevent anyone who has made gross mistakes in the past from becoming a healthcare provider again very easily every day after that? Why does the Minister not choose to make the declaration of conduct a mandatory part of the authorisation procedure? There is a possibility in the law, so the Minister may withdraw the permit at the time when the vog is not in order. We'd say, if you can't hand over a dog, you shouldn't get a permit. That seems to us to be an effective measure. We have tabled an amendment to that effect, namely No. 26. I would like to ask the Minister if he can support that amendment. Mr. Chairman. Good governance is also about drivers who work with integrity and do not put their own interests above the interests of patients and clients. This involves, for example, circumventing the legal rules, sneaky financial constructions, shady e.g. constructions and care money that is being locked away. It is not for nothing that the inspection but also the NZa sounded the alarm, because they are unable to deal adequately with drivers who are guilty of these practices. We remember Alliade. Healthcare drivers commissioned companies that they owned themselves. Research was done. It was not for nothing that the NZa and the inspection concluded that they had far too few tools to ensure the integrity and professional operation. But this law doesn't make it the beginning to improve this. As far as we are concerned, that is once again a missed opportunity. It is very frustrating that the Minister will soon know that in his reply we will refer again and again to a new law that will follow on this point. I would remind him, however, that this law has been with the Chamber for more than two and a half years, that the preparation for the Ministry has thus been much longer and that the Cabinet has thus had ample opportunity to come up with better proposals in terms of good governance and also the closure of all kinds of loopholes through which care money is channelled away. I would like to ask the Minister how we have had to wait so long and why he has allowed this to happen. The SP believes that there are already a lot of opportunities to prevent conflicts of interest. We have therefore tabled an amendment to item No. 17, that No. 12 replaces the prohibition on carers to hire subcontractors in which they themselves have financial interests. Of course, it is a very logical measure that if you are a care institution, you will not hire an e.g. that you own shares in, are a driver or are on the payroll. I hope that in these cases the Minister will not refer everything to a new law, because these are typical things that we can already agree on today. They're all things we've been asking for a lot of years, including the CDA. You'd say we could settle that today. It is an important step to put self-enrichment into care. I would like this cabinet today to make it clear whether it can support that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a conclusion. The SP had quite high expectations of the law we are discussing today. These high expectations have of course been partly fed by the Minister himself, who has referred time and again to the law we are discussing today: 'Zorgcowboys, complicated financial constructions, we will all settle it when we will deal with the Wtza later'. But I'm finding that's not gonna happen. We must note that this law is not going to solve the major problems we see in the current system. That's a shame, especially considering that we've had this law here in the fridge for years. It's a law treatment, it's a slow motion, it's a disappointment in slow motion. I blame this minister, too. Ministers, it's just the two of them now. I don't want to make a distinction, Mr. Chairman. If it's a disappointment, it's both. They seem to think that the words they speak have no meaning and that you can quietly say on TV that care cowboys need to be dealt with, but that you do not have to take measures to deal with such a law. That you can quietly say that market forces must be removed from care, but that you do not make any proposals to actually stop the pursuit of profit and competition. Because as we see every day how big the impact of the care cowboys is and what the impact of the fraud is, this minister does not manage to respond actively, effectively. For example, we could have put an end to the payment of profits in health care. We could have made so much better use of the 1.2 billion now on the shelf and available to investors. Of course, this law should also have been used to introduce the licensing system I was talking about earlier. That goes far beyond the reporting obligation and gives more certainty, so you know that the healthcare provider who comes to you over the threshold is also right. This law therefore does not seem to do anything to prevent healthcare providers from putting up complex constructions with e.g. to channel care money. Additional requirements that could be imposed by this law on the administration of institutions are not included. We are being referred to a new bill that may not even be dealt with by this cabinet anymore. The Minister also failed for two years to bring municipal care under this law. If he had, we could have dealt with and tracked down the health cowboys, especially when it comes to the supervised living. Then the inspection could have improved surveillance. All in all, therefore, it is rather disappointing that we still do not have the solution two and a half years after that, not the solution to the care cowboys and not the solution to the growing care fraud. We are sitting here with a flawed law that really takes a few steps in the right direction, but which could have been so much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you. You spoke about the obligation to notify and permit subcontractors. That was the amendment in part No. 25. In the meantime, that is the amendment to item No. 33. The amendment which regulates the normalization of top incomes has now introduced piece No. 38. There is also the amendment on the prohibition of profit distributions, which is an amendment to the second law, and that is part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u137	In any case, it cannot be said that we have not done our best to improve it in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u138	Thank you. I call Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Today we deal with two important laws. In any case, this will give the inspection, the IGJ, more tools to monitor the quality of care provided by healthcare providers. I think that the quality of care provided to people is extremely important. The new and long-awaited law accession healthcare providers replaces the existing law admission healthcare institutions. The two legislative proposals contain three important measures. This is first of all a notification requirement for new healthcare providers, including new subcontractors and youth support providers. They are therefore also in the picture at the inspection. Secondly, there will be a licensing requirement for healthcare providers providing medical-specialist care or employing more than ten healthcare providers. Thirdly, there is a strengthening of the independent internal supervision of authorised healthcare providers. Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the introduction of these measures. At present, anyone can just start a healthcare company without the inspection being immediately aware of it. If these two legislative proposals are adopted, they will be in the past, and my group welcomes that. At the same time, a notification obligation and a licence obligation to improve supervision are just the beginning. In recent years, we have seen various examples of opaque business structures, excessive profit distributions, conflict of interest and a lack of good internal checks-and-balances that allowed care money to leak out of care. Today, too, the examples have gone over the table in this Chamber. Further measures are therefore needed to make the management of healthcare providers more transparent and inclusive. However, the cabinet has chosen not to incorporate these new measures into this law, but into a separate supplementary legislative proposal. This is to prevent further delay, as the law we are discussing today has been in the Chamber for two and a half years. My group understands this, although at the same time I can see some possibilities for tightening up the legislative proposal that we are debating today. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of a general reporting obligation and a licensing obligation is seen by the parties in the care field as an increase in the administrative burden. It is therefore important that we make a proper weighting between new measures to strengthen supervision, which is really important to my group, and on the other hand the reduction of regulatory pressure and the burden of implementation. There is another argument why I believe that we should not expect the full benefits of the inspection. That is not only because the inspection is limited in its capacity, but also because of the principle of sovereignty in its own circle. First of all, it is the responsibility of a healthcare provider to build up proper internal safeguards that govern internal supervision. For how many times have we seen cases where the inspection had to intervene because internal supervision failed? That is why I am pleased that much attention is paid to this in the legislative proposal. Sovereignty in its own circle also means that your healthcare providers leave room to ensure that they meet all the requirements. I am thinking, for example, of parental or residential initiatives, but also of care cooperatives that want to organise care in an innovative way. They deserve a different approach than larger healthcare providers with sometimes complex business structures. Do the ministers agree with me? How is this taken into account by the inspection in risk-based supervision? Then I would like to comment on the obligation to report. The first objective of the reporting obligation is to get new healthcare providers in touch with the inspection and to focus on what kind of care the provider wants to provide. It is good that this reporting obligation will also apply to new subcontractors and new youth aid providers. The notification obligation under the Wtza does not apply to existing providers. Can the Minister state again why this new law is not used to align everything and to ensure that all providers, both existing and new, have to provide the same information to the inspection? There are two amendments tabled by the CDA Group to extend the reporting obligation to existing providers. My group would welcome this addition. But one more question. How is it ensured that the same information will be available about new providers as about existing providers? A second objective of the reporting obligation is to make new healthcare providers aware of the requirements of the provision of care. Indeed, an earlier pilot in 2014 showed that new healthcare providers are poorly aware of the regulations they have to comply with. How is it ensured that new healthcare providers receive specific information on the quality requirements for the type of care they wish to provide when reporting? What about the knowledge of existing healthcare providers? Is the entry into force of the Wtza not a time to update this knowledge with existing healthcare providers through an information campaign? I'd like to hear what the ministers think of that idea. Healthcare insurers impose the reporting obligation as a condition for the provision of the AGB code in order to be able to declare. Is the system waterproof? Can no declaration be made later without the presence of a supplier in the inspection? But above all: what does the report say in itself now? How is it ensured that all new providers not only take into account the quality requirements, but also meet them? Mr. Chairman. I now come to the subject of licensing. The authorisation requirement applies to healthcare providers providing certain forms of medical-specialist care or employing more than 10 healthcare providers. It is a good thing that this licence requirement is introduced, so that there is always a prior check on the quality of care, but also on whether there is the internal supervision that I have already mentioned. As far as the position of subcontractors is concerned, it is not entirely clear to me how that is to be dealt with in this legislative proposal. I believe that they are subject to licensing, provided, of course, they meet the criteria for this. So there must be medical-specialist care or more than ten healthcare providers. This was later amended by letter of amendment. My question is exactly what is happening, also because it is a major part of this debate today. Existing healthcare institutions which do not have an authorisation after the entry into force of this law will have two years to apply for this authorisation, while new healthcare providers who thus have at least ten healthcare providers will have to apply for a permit within six months. So we have two years for the existing providers and six months for the new entrants. Isn't this very crooked, I ask the Minister. Wouldn't it be better if we agreed on this term? And how is it ensured that healthcare providers that have already acceded to this law also provide high-quality, safe and affordable care? I also have a question about the resident and parent initiatives in which control of the board is invested with the residents or parents of children. Such initiatives will also be subject to authorisation if there are 10 or more healthcare providers. My question is whether this is proportionate. An exception has been made for such initiatives under the Customer Participation Act. Is it possible to make such an exception to the licence requirement possible here too, I ask the ministers. And what about care cooperatives, which I also mentioned earlier? Mr. Chairman. This law aims to provide more tools to the government regulator, the Health and Youth Inspectorate, to oversee healthcare providers and new healthcare providers. But supervision in the care of course starts with good and independent internal supervision. I mentioned this earlier in the context of sovereignty in my own circle. Major healthcare providers should above all have their internal checks-and-balances in order with a supervisory board that also shows its teeth when needed. In many cases, financial and quality problems in healthcare providers are due to failure of management and lack of internal supervision. It is therefore crucial that there is a strong internal supervisory body for healthcare providers subject to authorisation. General provisions on the governance structure are set out in Article 3 of the Wtza. Further rules may be laid down by general measure of governance. My group has tabled an amendment, which has been co-signed by others, which is already moving forward. I believe it is important that clear agreements are made on, among other things, the independence, composition and powers of the internal supervisory authority and the way in which the supervisory authority receives the necessary data. I am very curious to see how the ministers look at this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u140	That is the amendment in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 32 on the first law. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u141	That's right. I have a question on this amendment. As far as the SGP Group is concerned, it is in itself very sympathetic and in line with the intention of the supervisor. But does this mean that, now that this is covered by this amendment, it is not necessary to go back to the phenomenon of that internal supervisor in the law of sound management of healthcare providers, which we do not yet know? Is this gonna cover it all or is this just part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u142	I think this is an extremely good question from Mr Van der Staaij. I have also listened with interest to his speech. I think it is right not to anticipate new legislation too much today, because things are going to get too mixed up and we are also running the risk of saying, as they say here, the First Chamber, "Let's not deal with this Wtza, because there will be other legislation. It's gonna get too mixed up. We want to deal with it in conjunction," et cetera. I have just looked at an amendment with which I would like to explore what is already covered by the proposal before us for internal supervision. I wanted to specify why this is so important to my group and what we will review internal supervision of. I have also seen that there are a lot of other amendments on issues that my group also considers very important, but I would very much like to stay away from them in order to be able to deal with them clearly separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u143	That is clear, but take a point that the ministers tell us in the letter of 25 November: in the new legislative proposal, for example, we should look at the position of the internal supervisor in complex company structures. Is that a subject to be dealt with by a subsequent law? Or can this be done on the basis of the legal provisions on which you are now tabling an amendment with others?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u144	That's how specific I dare not say yes or no. I have assumed that my amendment to this section will provide a more detailed and clearer explanation. I can't tell you if everything's settled with this. I can imagine that, because of the importance of this subject, this will come back to other places. But perhaps I can still put this question to both ministers. Otherwise, I shall return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u145	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. The notification obligation has been extended to include a notification obligation for new youth aid providers in the third letter of amendment. I'm happy about that. At the same time, there remains a tension field around Wmo providers. I understand the reasoning that municipalities are responsible for the Wmo monitoring, but I also see that municipalities struggle with this. In what way can the inspection municipalities support this? I am thinking in particular of the supervision of the WMO area. I find that in my speech I talk a lot about the inspection. I believe that with this bill we are also laying down new tasks for the inspection. My question to both ministers is therefore whether the inspection has sufficient human resources and resources to carry out its tasks. Mr. Chairman. This new law also offers opportunities to make the quality of care and information about healthcare providers more transparent to patients and clients. With the notification obligation and the licensing obligation, the inspection received a lot of data on healthcare providers.... there was the inspection again. How valuable would it be if these data were publicly accessible to citizens, for example together with inspection reports and information on measures taken by the inspection? Everyone can then check whether the healthcare provider he or she has chosen has been notified, has been licensed and whether inspections have been carried out. I know the data is basically available. Is it possible to unlock these dates for citizens, as I ask the two ministers. Finally, Mr President. With this law, we are taking an important step towards getting more insight into the healthcare providers in our country. The next step is to take additional legal measures to combat unwanted business structures, to limit conflicts of interest and to prevent money from leaking out of care. The Minister refers to the bill he is preparing. My group is eagerly looking forward to that. We hope to be able to hold the debate on this at a realistic time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u147	Thank you for your speech. Mrs Bergkamp has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not often that we discuss a law that was filed with the Chamber more than two years ago. In this case, there are even two laws: the Act of Accession of Healthcare Providers and the Adaptation Act of Accession of Healthcare Providers, the Wtza and the AWtza. As Mrs Ellemeet said, the law of the sliding panels. Actually, I agree with that. But it's also the law of progressive insight. Look at the third letter of amendment and the fact that we are still trying to tighten up a number of things here. I think that has everything to do with, for example, the investigation of Follow the Money and the Alliade case. I think we've learned a lot from that about how to do things. Partly because we have waited so long for this law, expectations are high. My experience is always that it's going to be a bit disappointing. But this also has to do with the fact that the ministers have said very often in the past: "This is regulated in the Wtza and the AWtza. Yes, we're working on a letter of amendment." I was actually starting to take over a little bit. At some point I also said myself: "It will be in the Wtza. A third letter of amendment is under way." It seems as if these laws should be a kind of panacea to solve all the problems in care, but I think we need to adjust that picture and be a little more real with each other. We must realise that these laws do not remove all the problems in healthcare. In fact, we are eagerly looking forward to the Health Care Providers Act. Many complex problems in the care sector need to be dealt with in terms of integrity, conflict of interest, supervision and additional conditions in the case of dividend payments. D66 is also eagerly looking forward to this law. We therefore hope that this law will come quickly to the Chamber so that we can at least discuss it with each other during this cabinet period. I think my colleague from the CDA asked that question when we can expect this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u149	I don't really understand the passivity at D66. Mrs Bergkamp says that we have been eagerly looking forward to this law. But we've only just begun to deal with the law and she's eagerly looking forward to another law that might solve it. That's no way to work, is it? We're still here looking at how we can put an end to those e.g. structures, these shady structures. She's referring to Alliade herself. We're making the law here today, aren't we? That's what we're doing here, isn't it? If Mrs Bergkamp says 'we can do much more to prevent new Alliads', then we simply have to deal with it here today. Then we don't have to look forward to it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u150	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u151	My question is why she doesn't. Why is she going to refer again to another law, when today we are discussing a law that can solve a lot already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u152	I think we are all eagerly looking forward to the other law that is yet to come. I believe that we have also repeated a number of times in this debate that a number of important issues are not answered and resolved in the laws we are discussing today. I do not know the law, but hopefully these very important issues, such as integrity, conflict of interest and all of it, will be dealt with in the Law on the Internal Market. I do not think it would be wise, even legally, to now deal with all kinds of amendments that we are about to discuss under another law. I really want to see them in conjunction; I think that is more careful. I understand the disappointment. I would have preferred that law to be dealt with here. That is not the case, so that is why we are making a split. My story today is not so much about integrity, my focus is more on quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u153	I would like to stress that we are really talking about what comes into a law, so also about what comes into this law. If we want to tighten up the authorisation of new healthcare providers and make sure that it is no longer possible, as happened with Alliade, to channel care money through shady constructions, then we should be able to stop it today. I am very frustrated that Mrs Bergkamp herself refers to the failure at Alliade, which was actually the reason to deal with this law now, and that the Minister is being talked about that we should not want to regulate everything in this law, but we should not see each other again until next year when it comes to a new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u154	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u155	So we are now four or five years before we close the big holes in the law. I would like to challenge Mrs Bergkamp to think a little bit further than just a new law that we are only going to deal with in the future, but also to see what we can do today, in this law, so that it can stop gripping.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u156	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mountain camp, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u158	I'm sorry. I just choked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u159	It's okay. It's okay. I want to give a real picture here. I would find it really unwise if we now pretend to answer a number of important questions here today. I don't think that's fair to the people who look at this. It is good to ask the directors to reconstruct how it is that we are discussing a law now, although some other important issues can only be discussed in another law; I think that is a fair question. I'm curious about that, too. I think it's really because of the moving insight into a number of things that make people think: hey, we really need to pay much more attention to that in depth. But I think it's a little silly to say "we have to do some things here now," knowing that that's just not careful. We are also dealing with a First Chamber, which will soon see what the brackets in the different laws are. So I also want to have a proper legal process. I think it's important that both laws... Are you going to tell me to be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u160	No, that Mr Hijink wishes to make a third comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u161	That's a little... It will be fun if my colleague says that; I think that is the opposite world. In my view, it is important that both laws are considered in conjunction. They must be closely linked and then we have a proper legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u162	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u163	This is not a fair presentation of business. I have just said that this law has been here for two and a half years. He's been in preparation at the Ministry for a long time. As SP, and indeed the PVV, we tabled the first amendments a year and a half ago, perhaps even longer ago. In many debates we have talked about the Wtza, about what can be regulated in this law. A letter of amendment has been submitted three times. Yet here we pretend to be some kind of natural phenomenon, as if this law was given by God and we ourselves have no influence on it. Surely we determine what is regulated by this law ourselves? Isn't that why we have this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u164	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u165	If we're gonna stop these shady constructions, we're gonna stop them today, aren't we? We've talked about this a thousand times in recent years, haven't we? We can meet today, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u166	I just responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u167	Very briefly. Mrs Bergkamp says she understands the disappointment. Are you yourself disappointed in what we are being presented with today? Were you expecting more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u168	The expectations were high. I would have liked it better if we also discussed the other law with each other today. This certainly makes it easier to see the coherence between the two laws. But the fact is that it isn't. Then you can do two things. You can wait until the other law arrives. But this law is also a long-awaited law; in it we really arrange a number of basic things. So that would be my reaction to that. Too bad we don't have the other law yet, but it's good that we're treating this law now; and let's do it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u169	I get your answer. I'm essentially on the same page. But, of course, an incredible amount of amendments have been tabled. This indicates that there are gaps in these laws that we are now all trying to close. In particular, we find this disappointing. Considering how you're doing your story now, that disappointment is actually mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u170	Yeah, but I still think it's important to see what we can do today. I can honestly imagine Mr Hijink's reaction. He has put a lot of work into making all kinds of amendments, which we have seen come along at an early stage. So I really understand his disappointment, but the fact is that we have two different laws and we are dealing with one law today. It is not so much about many integrity issues, but about quality. We're gonna have to do it with that. So let me be clear: we cannot now deal with a great many of those amendments which we believe should be dealt with by the next law. We really want to see the coherence between all these laws, for a careful legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u171	I had a brief debate with Mr Van der Staaij on what the purpose of this law is. We're both putting together that you're trying to deal with the abuses. So that's a little wider than just quality. You want to organize the admission well, because that's how you want to avoid wrongdoing. These abuses have to do with quality, but you can't separate them from, for example, abuses when it comes to improper benefits and not being transparent about your finances. Does Mrs Bergkamp also see that tackling abuses is at the heart of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u172	I actually see two objectives. An important objective has really to do with quality. I think we're getting over that too soon. The aim is to monitor the quality of care. We know, for example, that the inspection often has to explain to new healthcare providers what the quality requirements are. It is therefore an objective to improve quality. In addition, greater transparency in business management should also contribute to preventing abuses. So it is two-fold, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u173	I agree with Mrs Bergkamp. You might not be able to see those two apart either. Then I would like to commend Mr Hijink for the fact that a number of proposals he makes, which I make and which Mrs Bergkamp does herself make, do indeed contribute to combating these abuses. So I think there's still room in this law, just separate from the other law that's still coming. That is another chapter, but in this law I think there is some room from the Chamber to make some improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u174	Where there are possibilities under this law, we should look at that. Let there be no doubt that I find all the abuses that we have seen in recent years horrible. With every euro that does not go to care, but to fraud and inaccuracies, of course, we have to deal with these matters. That is why I hope that this other law will be dealt with as soon as possible. But there are also things that we can look at with this law and that are part of this law. We have to look at that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u175	I understand from Mrs Bergkamp that she does not want to anticipate too much of a law that is still coming. So I'm going to ask a question about a law that won't come up, or about something that isn't covered by this law. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u176	The Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u177	Indeed, that is the Social Support Act. In addition, there are abuses, which everyone in the Chamber, including those of the Cabinet, says: we want to deal with them. How do you look at that? This law doesn't do anything about that, and it's gonna take a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u178	I will take this into account in my contribution later, but I would be happy to respond immediately. The Wmo doesn't fit in here. Of course, we also have a decentralised system. Here we are talking about the national agreements. I do agree with the PvdA that at the moment the supervision of the Wmo is very often not going well and is not well organised. That is why we have now provided written input for the second time, because we see that a number of municipalities have not yet organised it. I also believe that this monitoring should be improved. That is what my questions are about: how is supervision going to be improved? I think that is different from introducing a system change very quickly now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u179	The latter was not my suggestion either. I await the rest of Mrs Bergkamp's contribution. Then perhaps I will come back with some sort of second part interruption based on my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u180	I hope I can live up to your expectations. This was in a nutshell that was in my input. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna skip a few things. I have just outlined the purpose of the law for us in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Ellemeet. I am very curious whether the directors see that as well, whether this improvement in quality, and, of course, transparency in the management and thus the prevention of abuses, is really a goal of this law for them. We support these laws, but we still have a number of questions, for example on the regulatory burden. We are talking about the regulatory burden in every debate in the Chamber. From left to right there is a dislike of the multi-headed control pressure sample. Today we are discussing two laws that, according to the ATR authority, lead to an increase in the regulatory burden of at least 42 million. I would like a reaction from the directors, because there is a lot of uncertainty about this overall increase in the regulatory burden. In the two letters of amendment we see several examples of this. For example, the Wtza report states: "The regulatory burden of extending the reporting obligation to new subcontractors has already been taken into account in the previous calculation of the regulatory burden." But in the other note, that of the AWtza, we read: "The regulatory pressure section does not mention the maximum total compliance costs." That maximum amount has not been mentioned because it is still waiting for the implementation of the lower regulation. Of course, reservations and corrections of this kind make it difficult to assess the extent to which the regulatory burden increases and the administrative burden. That is why I would really like a clear explanation of this from both heads of government. How much will compliance costs be for everyone after the adoption of these laws? That is either inclusive or exclusive of all the amendments, I think by now. It is also stated in the letter of amendment and in the AWtza that it is intended to assess in practice the workability and feasibility of the concrete proposals from the lower regulations. I'd like to hear how the rulers see it. I would also like to hear a reflection from the ministers on the concerns about the increase in regulatory pressure. How do they see the balance between supervision and regulatory pressure, especially in view of the opinions of the Council of State and the ATR, the Advisory Committee on Control Pressure? That's the cabinet advisor when it comes to regulatory pressure. It is even advised not to submit the third letter of amendment. I think that's a hell of a statement. I am therefore very curious to see what the reasons are for doing so. Then the feasibility of both laws. A lot is changing when it comes to the Dutch Healthcare Authority and our inspection. I also think that we should be very grateful that we have two such institutions, which are so careful about the quality of our care and about the abuses in it. We see that a number of tasks are being transferred from the IGJ to the NZA, and we think that is a good thing, because financial matters belong more to the NZA, regardless of the capacity of the inspection. They are important players when it comes to accessibility and quality. But since they are, of course, given a number of tasks, or a shift is taking place, we are curious to see what they think of the legislative proposals. It is therefore also good to read that the IGJ indicates that it agrees with the intended purpose of the law, like the NZa, and that the bill contributes to transparent and controlled business operations. But they are also critical of the bill. For example, the IGJ argues that the proposal does not raise insurmountable concerns for its monitoring and enforcement. Well, I don't think "not insurmountable" sounds like: we're into it and we're going to do it very easily. I am therefore very curious to know what the directors think about this and how they addressed these objections. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that we are dealing here with a complex law, which is very important for healthcare providers. When preparing laws, I always try to move into what they ultimately mean to people, and in this case also to healthcare providers. I therefore ask the directors to explain very clearly what is happening, and what healthcare providers should do after the adoption of this law. What changes for them in daily practice? What are they supposed to be looking for? When are they gonna lose their license? When do they get a fine? Where can they receive information, so that they are also well aware of the quality requirements? And then there's another question I got from someone later. The whole phenomenon of certification, which we really think about differently than many years ago, is often a wash nose and takes a lot of time. Are these certification systems quality requirements that are going to play a role in this? I am very curious whether the directors today can explain to all those healthcare providers what is going to change for them. In addition, there are also concerns about the supervision of youth care. I think it is right that we have a third letter of amendment, which includes the obligation to notify youth care providers, especially in view of the huge increase in the number of providers. It is also a good thing that the Kooiman motion, which was supported by D66, has been implemented. But I understand that this also raises questions about the Wmo. I'll talk about that later. Youth care is, of course, also a responsibility of municipalities. At the same time, therefore, we can see that the debate on financial supervision in the youth care sector is taking place with great intensity. We also see the legitimate concerns of municipalities. They fear that a number of tasks will be taken away from them. How do we deal with that, so I ask the rulers. After all, they are responsible for buying that care. If we take too much away, it may mean a shift of responsibility. They are ultimately responsible for purchasing. Is the Minister prepared to work together with the VNG and the NZa in youth care and to strengthen the supervisory role of the municipalities, for example by sharing the knowledge of the NZa with the municipal supervisors? Mr. Chairman. Then the little care providers. There has been a lot of discussion about the limit of the licensing obligation. We have had several interrupting debates on the amendment I tabled with colleagues. I do not think I need to repeat why we have submitted this, but if there is a need for it, I would, of course, like to do it with all my heart. For us, it is very important to tackle regulatory pressure. We should not just say in the debate every time: God, God, God, how much of a rule pressure! At the moment when there is a law in front of me, I think that looking at this regulatory burden, you should look very seriously at what happens to amendments. This certainly applies to small suppliers. And let's not put all the providers on the same page. D66 really calls for tailor-made work, which is why we have tabled an amendment that allows you to decide, on the basis of a good analysis, to add any risk sectors through the AMvB if this is justified. That is a better solution than having the same regime for everyone, because you will find that the regime is not applicable to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr. Hijink, I'll appeal to you not to repeat too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u182	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to ask Mrs Bergkamp the question I put to the cabinet. How are we going to prevent us from getting very different categories of caregivers who are actually doing the same job? I am referring, for example, to neighbourhood care, which is referred to by several people as a risk sector. I don't know if that's true, but it could be. In the neighborhood care, for example, you have a group that has been working there for a long time and does not have a permit. In addition, as a result of Mrs Bergkamp's amendment, you will have a group which will have to apply for a permit until the Minister says that it is no longer necessary. And then you get another group that doesn't have to apply for a permit. Isn't that a very strange way of doing things? You're going to get a very unequal treatment of equals, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u183	I don't think you should look at it that way. I think you should look at governance and business management. A company where one, two or three people work is really different from a company with hundreds of people. I think you should make the distinction from the line pressure. I believe that I have also indicated this a few times in interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u184	No, that's another discussion. I am concerned that you want to decide by sector whether or not a licence requirement should be introduced on a temporary basis. This means that at first there was no licence requirement in a particular sector and then suddenly there was no licence requirement, namely at the time when the Minister decides to withdraw that obligation for this particular sector, and then again, when the Minister decides on his own initiative. For example, you get different groups of district nurses who work in the same neighborhood. One group of them has been subject to a licence and the other has not. That's a very unequal treatment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u185	The essence of the approach to control pressure is that you distinguish between the type of company and the type of business. We are all in favour of that. We are talking about the regulatory burden in every debate. Now we really have a chance not to increase the regulatory burden. Frankly, if I look at these two laws, the administrative burden will increase. We really think it's of a different order if you're a physiotherapist with your own company or if you really employ a lot of people. That's a real difference. This is not about differences between sectors of care. This is really about business. That is what this law is about, hence the distinction we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u186	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u187	Another question, actually, Mr President. I am simply trying to see what will be the consequence of this amendment in practice. I think that's important, because when it's introduced, you'll see that it's gonna cause misery. What if, for example, a nurse is active in disability care... No, let me rephrase. She works part of the hospital and part of her job is in community care. Then, on the basis of Mrs Bergkamp's amendment, the Minister comes up with a proposal to introduce a temporary permit requirement in the district care. So how are we gonna organize that? The nurse who works in different sectors must therefore have a licence for one half of her work and not for the other half. That's totally impossible, isn't it? I don't understand why Bergkamp doesn't just choose equal monks, equal hoods, so for clarity over these kinds of difficulties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u188	Equal monks, equal hoods will not be there with Mr Hijink's amendment anyway, because you are going to look at a lighter regime for certain organisations, because there are just fewer people working there. If equal monks, equal hoods is the starting point, then Mr Hijink's amendment is not correct either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u189	It is now about your amendment, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u190	I just explained that. I think you should look at the operations, the type of organization and how many people work there. On that basis you can identify a risk and think: hey, we add that. I think you should think very carefully about that on the basis of an analysis rather than saying, "hopsakee, everybody underneath!" I feel the responsibility to really tackle the regulatory burden in the care sector. I see an opportunity here. I am glad that some of my colleagues have seen and grasped this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u191	Mrs Bergkamp continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me give an example of a specific group of small healthcare providers. My colleague from the Christian Union has also paid attention to it. Home initiatives have been set up by parents themselves, which have sometimes also been taken over by family members. These are good examples of initiatives that allow people to direct themselves in order to regulate care on a small scale and close by. I think that is very important. This kind of parental initiative is really very different from residential initiatives initiated by an entrepreneur, which is nothing wrong with it. But it's really something else than when parents think that they should organise care for their child in that way. I have deep respect for that. I also have a lot of contact with parenting initiatives. The beauty is that parents themselves take care of their children of good quality. Therefore, D66 proposes that the directors, together with Per Balance, but certainly also with the parent and family initiatives, should look at how to provide lower administrative and financial burdens for these initiatives in a more effective way per AMvB. We are considering a motion on this subject together with the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. I have already said a few things about the Wmo at an interruption of the PvdA. The Wmo does not fall under the present laws. The system is just like that. Then we should change the system. We do see that the supervision of the Wmo is not going well with many municipalities, especially when we read the IGJ's annual reports about 2018. Those concerns have not been removed in recent years either. We can even see that the local authorities' response to the IGJ's survey was very low again, while there are issues about, for example, independence of supervision. Because of the framework principles of good supervision, this is really very important. Like colleagues, we have asked questions about this in the framework of the IGJ reports for 2017, and now again about 2018, because the problems have still not been resolved. I am therefore very curious about the response of Minister De Jonge to the question of how to improve WMO surveillance. I understand that there is some kind of impatience in colleagues because things are not going well. Mr. Chairman. Then over the vog. D66 believes that you have to meet certain basic conditions if you want to offer care. Offering care is, after all, responsible work. You're close to people and sometimes you're attached to people's bodies the moment they're in a vulnerable situation. This makes working in the care of many people a nice profession, but it also requires responsibility and integrity. That is why we believe that we need to look at how the system of the vog can be better adapted to the access that we are now achieving with the two laws. Amendments have been tabled on the vog, but we are going too far to say now: a vog must be a must provision. I think we need to look carefully at how these two systems are well connected. Hence the appeal to the Ministers whether they are prepared to work on it and at least come back to it when the other law is being discussed. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to an end. With these laws, we are taking a good step towards better supervision and thus a better quality of care. Monitoring is not, of course, an end in itself. In the end, you want to achieve something with this: ensuring good quality and transparency that allows you to address abuses. We look forward to answering the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u193	Thank you for your input. Mr Jansen has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u194	Mr. Chairman. We can't handle the care fraud. That's what the state's attorney's office announced at the beginning of the year. Fraud is simple and the odds of getting caught are low. It is mop-up with the crane open and the Public Prosecutor has far too little capacity to deal with the fraud in the care sector. The outlook is not good. I don't need to list the list of fraudulent caregivers. A number of colleagues have mentioned them, and the media have also been full of them. Compliments to all those journalists from, among others, Follow the Money and Pointer who exposed this fraud. Apparently, you come a long way with a relatively simple method. Finding out the profit figures of healthcare providers will soon make it clear who is enriching the care. The PVV Group is therefore surprised that, for example, the Dutch Healthcare Authority does not adopt this method and calls all providers with dubious profit figures directly to account. We don't need a new law for that at all. We can do this now. More than 10% to 15% profit is almost impossible with current margins. I'd like a response from the Minister. Another phenomenon that the PVV Group is surprised about is that care fraud is often committed by drivers with a criminal record. This was found to be the case in 57% of the cases investigated. How is that possible? A driver with a criminal record should be kept out of care. We do not need a new law for this either. Health insurers should simply not buy care from those providers. I would also like to comment on this. For example, could the standard linking of the behavior statement to the application for an authorisation not be the solution? Mr. Chairman. Almost all the debates that have been requested here in the Chamber in connection with care fraud have been served by the coalition. Legislation was constantly referred to as being in preparation and would solve all the problems. Today we are finally debating two anti-fraud laws, but in our view they only provide a fraction of what should actually be delivered. There will be a reporting obligation for new healthcare providers and the licensing obligation will be tightened, including the possibility of withdrawing the authorisation. In itself, this is fine. It is incomprehensible that we have had to wait more than two years for this. This can count on the support of the PVV. However, this tightening is not going to affect existing healthcare providers. It's not going to hit healthcare providers with less than ten employees either. It's not gonna touch the complicated and dubious e.g. structures. So it's going to be a long way from restricting care fraud or completely eliminating it. What's with the ten employees limit? 61% of the more than 3,000 community care providers have fewer than 10 employees. In mental health care, they are over 8,000 healthcare providers. Many new healthcare providers are still excluded from the ex ante review. That is what these ministers are now aware of, and that is why they are announcing new legislation, again. We have received a comprehensive letter explaining what is still to come to deal with care fraud. But we probably have to wait another two years for that and then we have a new cabinet again. I can only conclude that these ministers have done little to stop the care fraud. Year by year we lose hundreds of millions of euros of care, in our opinion there are even billions. Any euro of care that does not go to the people who desperately need this care is a lost euro. Every criminal who enriches at the expense of the caregivers is one too many. In fact, according to the PVV Group, the healthcare premium could finally go down instead of just going up. Let's speed this up and not just take him for two years. Mr. Chairman. In view of the number of amendments, more parties here in the Chamber believe that the additional measures are necessary. We ourselves have an amendment. The PVV Group wants to put an end to the huge profits some healthcare providers are making themselves. We can spare pocket fillers in care as a toothache. The healthcare sector is a non-profit sector. Of course, a certain profit margin can be understood and as long as this profit benefits the care again, there is nothing to worry about. But profit distribution through e.g. structures to shareholders must be prohibited. Healthcare providers including subcontractors should be non-profit organisations, such as a foundation, a social enterprise or a cooperative. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u195	This amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to put another question. If it turns out that a healthcare provider can work efficiently and cheaply, thereby leaving money at the end of the year and the following year again, then profits will be made. Profit is made, but it is a non-profit-making company. Then what happens to that profit? I understand you can invest it. You can expand or you can give employees a bonus. Especially the people who do the real work every day, our care heroes, deserve a bonus. But in what way could a large proportion of the amount remaining be returned to the contributor, so that care would really be cheaper? Is this through appointments with the health insurance company? Are there going to be lower rates? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u197	I would like to return to the amendment tabled by the PVV. We will support that, but we do find it strange that the ban on profit distribution relates only to the hiring of subcontractors. We are wondering why the PVV does not simply choose to do so. That is why we have proposed it ourselves to make profit distribution impossible across the board?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u198	We have deliberately chosen subcontractors, because according to our information, most of the abuses occur there. I have just indicated that there is nothing wrong with parties making profits themselves, but that this profit should benefit the care. This profit should benefit the people who need it. That is why we are making this distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u199	That is exactly the point I made earlier. The money left must be returned to care. But is the PVV going to support the proposal that we are doing? Will the ban on the distribution of profits, which now applies to inpatient care, be extended to the rest of the care? Will the PVV support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u200	We are going to take a decision on this within the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u201	Thank you very much for that answer. You were at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u202	I'm at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u203	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Veldman, on behalf of the VVD, the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u204	Thank you, Mr President. At the beginning of this year, the Public Prosecutor's Office and several health insurance companies were called the alarm clock. The control of fraudulent care agencies is failing. There are far more fraudsters than the Public Prosecutor can handle, and it is made far too easy for new fraudsters. One of the key problems is the ease with which everyone can start a care company. For a multitude of professions and thus companies there is a notification obligation or a permit path. For example, the well-known Bibob procedure is initiated before starting a catering company and if you want to start a taxi company, you need a license from the Kiwa register. For financial services, you must apply for a permit from the AFM. But for the sector in which the buyer may be at its most vulnerable, the care, we do not know any notification or licensing system. In the care department, you and I can start another company this afternoon. As a result, certain healthcare providers are not or are not present in time at the Health and Youth Inspectorate, the IGJ, which may lead to irresponsible situations. This risk exists throughout the healthcare landscape, but the problem is mainly in the district care and ggz, where many so-called health cowboys are present. These care cowboys either make a lot of profit over their clients' backs by declaring much more hours than they actually work, or they deliver undersized quality by staying under the radar. Since 2016, organisations registering with the trade register under the heading "Health and well-being" have been encouraged to report to the website. However, this notification is voluntary. And since this notification is voluntary, groups of healthcare providers may still be unknown at the inspection. Of course, this group of healthcare providers may still be shown at the inspection, for example if the inspection receives signals or notifications from or about these organisations. Based on the severity of these signals, it is then decided whether a monitoring visit is necessary. The problem is that care has been provided for some time, sometimes even several years, which is not right. The provision of care may have been of poor quality for years or within the care institution can be frauded with, for example, unlawful declarations. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, this problem is mainly in the neighbourhood care and the ggz. One of the key problems there is also that the number of hours of uncontracted care is very high. A report from Vektis shows that the number of hours a client receives per month in 2018 is 2.7 times higher than for contracted healthcare providers. Similarly, the average cost of customer care per month for non-contracted healthcare providers is twice as high as for contracted healthcare providers. The same reporting also shows that providers that are fully uncontracted are growing in number: from 1.389 in 2016 to 2.214 in 2018. Uncontracted providers are much smaller than fully contracted providers. The large number of providers of community care leads to fragmentation of the provision of care and makes it difficult to ensure coherence in care. In addition, this may be even more important if the uncontracted providers do not have to comply with the quality requirements of health insurers. After all, they have no contract, and therefore no contract terms. So if these uncontracted providers haven't reported themselves as a healthcare provider, aren't in the picture with the health insurance companies and not in the picture with the IGJ, they can actually just go their own way without anyone checking anything. Does the Minister share the concern about the number of uncontracted? Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that it is a good thing that we are finally talking here today about the Act of Accession of healthcare providers. It took some time, because the proposal was indeed submitted to the House of Representatives by the then Minister Schippers in September 2017. But better late than never. After all, care in the Netherlands must be of good quality. It is actually very strange that anyone who wants to start a care company can just start with that, but from now on zero is not in the picture at the inspection. It is important that caregivers have to meet legal quality requirements and that they also know what requirements these are. The proposed laws support this aim. They improve the IGJ's supervision of new healthcare providers and encourage new healthcare providers to be better aware of the rules, such as quality requirements for the provision of care and their own responsibility. With the notification obligation, all new healthcare providers providing long-term care or care under the Health Insurance Act come into view not only not only with the IGJ but also with the healthcare offices and health insurance companies before the start of the care provision. The Wtza provides for new healthcare providers to fill out a questionnaire when they register, which is sent to the IGJ. On the basis of these answers, the IGJ determines whether there is a risk of responsible provision of good care with that provider. As new healthcare providers are in the picture before the start of care provision, early action can be taken by the IGJ in the field of safety and quality. For example, the reporting obligation actually complements the risk-based supervision of the IGJ. Mr. Chairman. In particular, I see this as a complement to the monitoring of the neighbourhood care and ggz sectors. That is where the reporting and licensing obligation for the VVD is most needed. It can reduce the practices of health cowboys. I realise that this is an additional administrative burden, but the importance of good care weighs more heavily here. Of course, it's still a tricky one. In this sense, I can agree with the questions raised by Mrs Bergkamp in connection with the comments made by the ATR. So I will not repeat those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u205	Mr Veldman now mentions the district care and the ggz. These are precisely those sectors where a very large proportion of providers employ less than 10 healthcare providers and in which many self-employed people are also active. The Bergkamp amendment c.s. should allow the Minister to introduce an additional licensing obligation for certain sectors with fewer than 10 carers in service. Does Mr Veldman, for example, consider that ggz and community care are the two first identified sectors for which this should apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u206	We note that there may be more abuses in these sectors than in a number of other sectors. That is precisely why I have also tabled Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. I think that you should be able to prove that, where necessary, so you should be able to take a good look at this. Such an extension of reporting obligations to licensing obligations should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u207	That's not really an answer to the question. Mr Veldman specifically mentions ggz and community care as sectors which he considers to be at risk. I would ask him to do so in view of the Bergkamp and others amendment. whether that means that the Minister from the coalition will first be asked to look into these sectors to see whether there should also be a licensing obligation for providers with less than 10 healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u208	I believe that the amendment gives a broad mandate to the Minister. I have just said in my first answer that I can imagine, but I do not want to generalize it. You do this a little bit by saying that anyone who works in those sectors, who has less than ten employees and who may be working alone, would not be good. I think that we should also keep an eye on all those people who are self-employed or with a small company in care, who are in it with heart and soul and who are just good, who make their declarations and who provide quality care. We must continue to congratulate them on this and not say it automatically... I taste that a bit in your question to me: then I direct the Minister to direct those two sectors directly with the Bergkamp and others amendment. designate to go from reporting to licensing? No, just when it turns out that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u209	I'd like to make this right. If you say here that there should be a licensing requirement for all healthcare providers, it doesn't mean that you wouldn't have confidence in the vast majority of those sectors or that you wouldn't have confidence in the individual healthcare providers. Of course, the vast majority does a very good job and works very well. Mr Veldman is actually making things even more complicated. He says that with the Bergkamp amendment c.s. Not the whole sector, not the whole of the district care sector and not the whole of the ggz, will be subject to a licence requirement, but that we will again identify categories within that sector which will then be subject to a licence. I just want to make it clear that if we start this discussion, we will lose it a little bit. Let me warn you that this amendment really opens the door to wild west.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u210	Now Mr. Hijink is cutting it very far. I didn't say that or at least didn't mean to say that. Maybe he misunderstood me or I misunderstood myself. It is, of course, an entire sector. We're not going to put all kinds of clippings in there again: one is, the other isn't. I agree with what Mr Hijink says about the fact that there are a lot of small companies and self-employed people who are providing excellent care, who comply with the rules and who are just right. We agree on that; it is good to see that with each other. But, yes, in the neighborhood care and in the ggz we also see a number of them running around, which we can say may not belong there. If that group is in such a way that more control is needed, then you would have to do so with the Bergkamp amendment. be able to take the step from reporting to licensing. But I am careful in advance with that step, which you would like to take at once, because I do not agree for nothing with the questions that Mrs Bergkamp has asked about the regulatory burden. I also want us to be a little careful for small businesses and for self-employed people with what we organise and how we shut it all down. People need to be able to continue to take the step to work in healthcare, because you and I also know that we need a lot of people in care. Mr. Chairman. Like the announced Law, the Wtza is part of a package of measures to ensure that care money is spent effectively, efficiently and lawfully. My question to the Minister is to express here again what he means by effective, effective and legitimate spending of care money. It is precisely in the interest of the focus on good care and legitimate spending of care money that I want to tighten up the law a little bit further. The VVD considers it logical that additional measures can be taken or taken where a healthcare provider is wrongly declaring. An amendment has been tabled. I'm sure you know what number that is, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u211	That is the amendment to item No. 22 on the first law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u212	22?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u213	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u214	There you go. This amendment provides for unlawful declaration to be added as grounds for refusal and withdrawal of the Wtza licence. I believe that healthcare providers who have deliberately made unlawful declarations in the past should no longer join the healthcare landscape, because that fraud with that money is at the expense of all of us. By controlling legitimate declaration, the importance of good quality and reliable care comes back to the forefront. Does the Minister share the view that the law could be further tightened in this respect? The Wtza will also apply to the youth aid providers. I would like to ask the Minister about the operation of the Wtza in relation to those youth aid providers. Youth aid providers may be in the picture with the IGJ as new providers, but what about supervision? How is the link with municipalities established? What is the relationship between the IGJ and municipalities? What is this cooperation going to be like and is this definition clearly visible to every municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u215	Mrs Ellemeet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u216	Just on the previous point, those declarations. It's a great idea in itself. I understand what Mr Veldman wants, but I do wonder how this is going to work out in practice. I believe there are 4,400 DBs, so it can happen that you accidentally declare a wrong DB. Of course, you don't want too much punishment if a mistake is made. I believe that with the current proposals in this law you can withdraw a licence if there is fraud. In the case of abuses, action can therefore already be taken. Does Mr Veldman share my concern and how can he take it away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u217	Of course, I share Mrs Ellemeet's concern. Where things go wrong and that was unconscious or unintentional or where something has been misfilled once when that was not really the intention, you must exercise some coulance. You have to have recovery options or recovery periods. But Mrs Ellemeet knows as well as I do that there are just a few crooks, to name it, walking around the playing field knowingly cheating and probably not once, but more often. I am concerned about those crooks who deliberately abuse care money and try to earn care money over the back of the contributor, care money that has not been properly spent or not properly declared. That's the group I'm talking about. As I have read the law, I like to hear how the Minister looks at it. There is not enough of a hook now to really say: we are withdrawing the permit. And if Mr. Pieterse first had organization X and then registered with organization Y, we should also be able to say from organization Y: we are not going to grant you that license, because when you owned organization X we saw that you really only cheated. That's what I want to do. I don't want people like that to be active in health care anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u218	I fully share that, but I wonder if this amendment is the solution. You don't want someone who lights things up somewhere else to start it off. We should not want that, but this amendment is about declaration behaviour. I have not yet received an answer to my question. I would like to support it, but I would like to make sure that my group does not support an amendment which, in practice, is more wrong. So how are we going to prevent this from happening? Is it true that human error is going to be punished far too severely? Perhaps this question can also be passed on to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u219	I understand the question and I share that concern. I have just said that it must not, of course, lead to a mistake being made where it is unintentionally made, which means that a licence is withdrawn à la minute. You have to be able to recover from unconscious inability to act. What I think you and I are concerned with is that we are tackling the bad guys in the sector. They're out there. We know that there are organisations that declare more than they have given to care. Or they may have declared them to the right size hours, but that if you ask people at home how they received the care, they say: yes, it was true on paper, but that gentleman or lady left after an hour, when it should have been there for a lot longer. We have to limit ourselves to these kinds of structures, where the purpose is to light things up. That's the kind of care cowboys we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u220	Finalizing, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u221	I hope that the rulers will be able to explain how they feel they can accept this amendment without undesirable consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u222	Mr Hijink, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u223	I understand Mr Veldman's direction very well. My only question is who then is the one who decides whether there is an unlawful declaration. Is it the health insurance company that decides that? Does that involve a judge? Because that is, of course, a point of discussion. There is very often discussion between healthcare providers and health insurers about whether or not correctly declared care has been made, about whether or not too many hours have been made for a particular operation in, for example, district care. Then who's the one who decides? Is it not wise that there is some kind of independent test before anyone is actually banned from the profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u224	I'm not gonna change anything in that system of checking if declarations are justified. We are now setting up a system of reporting and licensing. Then I think it makes sense, too, if you work with permits, which I welcome, that you can also withdraw or refuse such a permit if you know someone is cheating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u225	We agree on that, but who's gonna decide when the whole thing's gonna get screwed? Is it then the health insurance company that determines that this district nurse or this institution has made too many false declarations in my view, so it should not be licensed anymore? How does that work? Because, in fact, that health insurance company is not really about who gets a permit or who doesn't. Or should there be some kind of independent test on that? Should there be a judge in there? Should a conviction have been used, after which someone cannot obtain a new licence or the licence is withdrawn? Who decides?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u226	If it is found by the inspection or by health insurance companies that there is an unlawful declaration, you can see that as well. If we see in the newspaper tomorrow that company x has been found to have cheated for an x, didn't care for an x amount, while it did send the invoices for it, you know that. Then you have to say to each other, if that permit is available later, that: hey, but now we also want this player to disappear from the field. Because it wasn't done unconsciously, as I just said to Mrs Ellemeet. It's very conscious, maybe even repeated. Well, then you want to get one of those players off the field, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u227	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u228	Yeah, we agree on that. I just want to be careful. That is why I would like to ask the directors how they are going to explain this and whether the wording chosen by Mr Veldman in his amendment is careful enough. I understand that he says: if the NZa or the inspection has independently established that there are false declarations, this may be a reason to withdraw the licence or not to grant a licence. But I would like to make sure that we make this dependent on the assessment of an individual insurer, who can also have very different interests. That's all I care about. I'd like to get a reaction from the cabinet as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u229	I would like to join Mr Hijink in saying that it is very good to hear from the Minister whether the wording I am using in the amendment is careful enough. If that is not the case, then we need to see how it can be done more carefully. I agree with Mr Hijink that we need to be sure that we are really taking the players off the field that are not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u230	I was triggered by the interruptions that just took place about what illegality is. There is a difference between fraud and unlawfulness. Is cheating illegal or fraud? Perhaps it would be a good idea to include the auditor's role in this, because of course he also has a role to play in this. I'm very curious to know who's finally going to judge what's going to happen and what the auditor's role is. For someone, an official external, should eventually be able to draw that conclusion, especially if the consequences for the exercise of the profession are so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u231	Sure, I agree with Mrs Bergkamp. She says: "A cow is an animal, and an animal is not a cow." Fraud is an unlawful act, but not every illegal act is direct fraud. So it may indeed happen that something illegal is happening in the books or that an invoice has been sent illegally, which is evident later, even if you as a company look at the records: hey, something went wrong here; we have to withdraw or repair it. Then you just have to be able to fix it. So yes, fraud is illegal, but not every illegality is fraud. But of course I'm talking about fraud, about knowingly cheating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u232	What about the auditor's role in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u233	Well,zzp'ers can cheat, but there's not exactly an accountant behind that, because we don't have the rule thatzzp'ers should have that kind of administration. But at a big company, you can hold an accountant responsible for that, too. We don't have them for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u234	Mr Veldman talks about illegality, but I have said that we should also talk about efficiency in accountability. Does Mr Veldman agree with the CDA that you should also check a bit of efficiency in smaller institutions? As I said, "one, two puppies are not missing on a tree so loaded" can quickly be the thought of a small setting. In other words, it won't be noticed if I've declared a little extra or if it's not entirely true. Does Mr Veldman also support the need for unambiguous reports, which, of course, must be taken into account that this should be for a smaller organisation of a very different order than for a large organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u235	I am inclined to say that I particularly agree with what Mrs van den Berg says. I agree with making sure that the rules are there as clearly as possible and also the administration, including the administrative burden. However, I would like to prevent us from saying to each other here and now that what we have invented and what there is about administrative burdens and obligations for a large company suddenly becomes one-on-one applicable to thezzp'er because we say: it must be effective in that sense and so there must be clear rules or clear administration. I think there can and should be a difference in administrative obligations, because there is also a difference between organizations: are you azzp'er in the care that we desperately need, or are you a company where maybe 100 people are on the payroll?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u236	I agree entirely with Mr Veldman that there is a difference in the amount of accountability, but I am concerned that if all thosezzp'ers were to account for the same concept framework and the same set-up of their reporting, it would be much easier for regulators to make all kinds of connections and draw conclusions. I would like to have a reflection on that from Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u237	Wherever possible, we should certainly do so, but then I would like to add my voice to the questions raised by Mrs Bergkamp on the administrative burden. If it helps to make it unambiguous, including forzzp'ers, and to use a clear conceptual framework, then we must do so. If that ultimately leads to a greater administrative burden because it may be very different from what they are now delivering to the Tax Administration, then I am already less enthusiastic about it. In this sense, I am curious about the reaction of the cabinet to Mrs Ellemeet's amendment, which is a huge burden on smaller companies or the self-employed. So in that sense, I am curious about the response, but I believe that we find each other on the point that we want things to be lawful and effective, and that the administration is efficient, preferably as unambiguous as possible. The point where we may not have found each other yet, but I see Mrs van den Berg looking at it as if she thinks: well, perhaps it is that we are able to organise it in terms of administrative burden, especially for small organisations or self-employed people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u238	In conclusion, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u239	When I talk about efficiency, I also talk about effectiveness of care. Accounts can be extremely legitimate, but you can say: what is the result of the care? My proposal is that, on the one hand, we should focus more on efficiency, i.e. on the effectiveness of care, so that financial accountability can also be much lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u240	I think we'll find each other there, too. It is not for nothing that I have just mentioned that the ggz is also one of the areas in which you can worry about what is happening there, not only as regards legality, but also as regards how sensible the care we are delivering is, that is, efficiency. You may be able to justify 20, 60 or 80 sessions with a client in the letter of the law, but if you actually know that after 20 sessions you won't get anywhere with that client, then you may not be the right person to deal with that care provider and so you have to deal with it in a different way. If that is what Mrs Van den Berg means, then I think we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u241	I have a very enlightening question to ask Mr Veldman about his amendment. I'm asking that question because I lost it for a while. Is what he just said, including in response to some of the interruptions of colleagues, fully in sync with the text of his amendment? Let's say that this fraud is undisputed. We may be going to talk about when you can see that, but let's say there's no discussion about that. Will the application for authorisation be refused or will the permit be withdrawn, or can the Minister decide not to grant or withdraw such authorisation? That is, of course, a relevant distinction. Is it automatic that no licence is granted or that the licence is withdrawn, or does it require further consideration by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u242	I think it's always a can-determine. To record here that you will withdraw the licence at all times, seems to me to be a bit of a turn-off. I think it's a can-determine. If it is found that someone repeatedly lights up, then you can withdraw the permit. I can hardly imagine it, but from a legal point of view it may be possible for someone to cheat on a number of occasions, but at the end of the journey it turns out that it is true or that it is actually good, while at first sight it may not be good. If it is not a can-determine, but the licence must be withdrawn to the letter of the law à la minute, so that 100 people are on the street, I think we are going too far. I think it's always legal. If it is repeated, I believe that we find ourselves in a situation where someone is knowingly cheating on you, then we must be able to say that this permit does not suit you; you do not belong on the playing field of care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u243	Whether it is a can- or a will-determine is, of course, something that we are going to make out here; that is why I am asking the question. It seemed for a moment that it is an automatism, in the sense of: these people do not belong in the care, so. I hear Mr Veldman now saying: it is a can-determine. That leads me to the question, first of all to myself, to think about it and then to the group when we assess your amendment, which is the difference from the situation in which it is possible to do so now when there is fraud. But the explanation is clear: it is possible, but it is not necessary. It depends on the circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u244	I think it's always careful to do that. If you build in automatics, as Mr Kerstens points out, you may take irresponsible risks with each other, no matter how logical they feel, and no matter how understandable it is. If someone screwed up, it's gotta automatically lead to... The moment you make the decision that the permit is revoked, you should always consider whether everything we've found is true. If so, we'll move him in. So it is not an automatism in which you can speak with an automatic act, a digital act, saying: the licence has been revoked, because the system says "five times wrong."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u245	Finalizing, Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u246	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It is not my automatism, because I did not propose the amendment. It was a question to Mr Veldman, because it gave rise to the suggestion that it would be an automatism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u247	Mrs Van den Berg on a repeat occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u248	Yes, because Mr. Kerstens asked an explanatory question and Mr. Veldman's answer got me a little confused. For I am quite clear about the can-be clause: it can be withdrawn. That's fine, but Mr. Veldman let himself go somewhere in the answer to Mr. Kerstens: if someone goes repeatedly in the wrong. I hope Mr. Veldman agrees with the CDA that someone can just go wrong once in such a way that we say: we stop immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u249	Yeah, there could be situations where that might be the case. Someone could have fooled the place knowingly and knowingly in a truly scandalous way. Then you'll all see: this is no good at all. We'd rather lose people like that than be rich. But of course there is always an area where one will say "this is unconscious and something has gone wrong" and the other thinks that things have been deliberately fooled. It is these grey areas in which one can see a second time: hey, here things are being fooled again. Then it turns out, and you can see with each other, that the first time it was consciously and knowingly and not unconsciously. Then you come to a stack where you often notice with each other that something isn't right. But life is not black and white; there is always a grey area in it. You have to keep handling that carefully. That too is human work. So you shouldn't do it as an automatism, because that too is human work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u250	Mr Veldman continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u251	The Wtza and the AWtza are good steps. But that doesn't mean we're already here. In this respect, as others have already said, I look forward to the announced law on the integrity of business operations. That bill, I understand, lays down additional conditions to the dividend payment, with the obligation for healthcare providers to avoid any kind of conflict of interest within their organisation, and a number of other matters. All of this is necessary - so we are not yet ready to promote safety and quality for healthcare users and also to ensure legality. Mr. Chairman. Then one final comment. Mrs Bergkamp has already asked: give another picture of what this law brings about for the healthcare providers to change. What does that trajectory look like? I would also like to ask in a different way and go back to what this bill is actually meant for, namely the care user, the one who receives care. In the end, it's all about the good care that people need to receive. If I don't receive proper care, then of course I want something done about it. We are talking about the law here today; but what steps can I take as a care user myself? Where can I go? And how do I ensure that when my healthcare professional makes a pot of it, measures can be taken? How can I, as a care user, make sure that a permit I spoke about for a very long time, including in the interruptions so ultimately can also be withdrawn? Can the Minister clarify once again how and where people can get complaints and how precisely this obligation of notification and authorisation is going to help the care recipient obtain good care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u252	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We're suspending for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u253	The next item is the continuation of the examination of two legislative proposals, the Accession Health Services Act and the Accession Healthcare Providers Act. I call the US Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u254	Thank you, Mr President. A number of you have said that you have eagerly looked forward to the treatment of this law. That goes for us too, of course, but let us be honest: it is also a complex law. I saw Mr Jansen for the second time in this Chamber. Last week we discussed with each other the Embryowet and embryo selection at unequal gender incidence. That wasn't a simple law, but this one wins, I guess. So you're thinking, "I'm gonna start with two weeds to get in there for a while." Well, that's nice, of course. I'm here with my colleague Bruno Bruins. We'll deal with this bill together. Frankly, I'm afraid I'm gonna be talking for the longest time. That is a characterological thing, but that also has to do with how we did the block distribution. I was about to do the answer as follows. I would like to start with an introduction to frame this bill in relation to all the other intentions the cabinet has for strengthening the dike to keep all those providers out of the door who are not really looking for anything in our care. After that, I really wanted to move on to the discussion of this bill. Block one is about reporting duty. Block two is about the licensing obligation, which most of the questions were asked about. Block three is about the supervision and transfer of tasks from the IGJ to the NZa, block four about everything that has to do with fraud and block five about everything that has to do with profit. Block six, varia, is about everything else to do. Mr Bruins will focus on the licensing of the private clinics for medical-specialist care, independent internal supervision, the extension of the annual responsibility obligation and the basis in the AWtza for acute care. So those are his subjects. I will repeat them again: the licensing requirement for medical-specialist care clinics, the independent internal supervision, the extension of the annual responsibility obligation and the basis in the AWtza for acute care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u255	And the annual account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u256	I just mentioned it. Twice already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u257	Yeah, it's been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u258	Mr. Chairman. We have started making this bill to make sure, especially for the sake of quality, that we make the people and parties who start out in healthcare, the new providers, much more aware of the requirements that apply there. In addition, we wanted to ensure that these new providers come into the picture of the inspection. Before I explain how we see it in relation to all those other routes, I would like to say a few things in advance. The first thing I want to say is that most people are good. I am deliberately saying this at the beginning of this debate. Indeed, some of you have done so on their own terms. Most people are good; that's what Rutger Bregman's book is called, and that's certainly true in healthcare. We're gonna talk tonight about how you keep people out who might not be right and who work with the wrong intentions in care. But for those 1.2 million people who work in healthcare, I really think it is important to start this debate by saying: most people are good. That certainly applies to the care. So let us always speak with two words. The second is: the Wtza, the law before it, is not a hairminder oil, not a thousand things wipe for everything that is going on, nor a solution for everything that we want to solve. It is an important basis in the dyke reinforcement against anyone who wants to work with wrong intentions and with wrong intentions in the care. This network needs to be made more and more closed, in such a way that we always have an eye for the administrative burden that it entails. For most of the administrative burdens we always cause with the best of intentions, but unintentionally, because of something you want to keep out of the door, you could burden the whole sector with a bureaucratic burden that you can't just get rid of. We should be sober in that, too. But this proposal is certainly not on its own. We have announced several measures together when it comes to strengthening the dam. This is actually the basis of that dike reinforcement. You're gonna have to see who shows up at the start of care anyway. Those parties should put you in the picture at the inspection, within the scope of the inspection. But there's a lot more we need to do when it comes to the dyke reinforcement I was just talking about. One of the legislative pathways that we are working on, actually in addition to the Wtza as it is now before us, is the Law on sound business management. I shall come back to that in a moment in response to questions from Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Ellemeet. That's the law we want to consult in the autumn. This will promote integrity and professional management by setting legal standards, setting standards and conditions for dividend payments.................................................................................................................................................................................................. We've briefed you on that a number of times. The first time was in July, I believe. That was in the letter about profit and how to deal with profit. The impact we had already announced at the time was sent to the Chamber at the end of November, because we still thought that this bill would be dealt with in December. Of course, there's a relationship between them. I'm gonna explain that relationship a little bit more. But that is one very important addition to this. A second law coming up concerns the improvement of cooperation between different bodies in the fight against fraud. This provides the Information Node Care Fraud with a legal basis. This includes compulsory cooperation with the municipality. That's one. Two. It includes a warning register, so that all providers who have gone wrong before can be prevented from entering into a contract. This also applies to the municipal domain. One is therefore the law on sound management, which will come in the autumn. Well, at least it'll be in consultation. And two is the bill on improving cooperation between all parties involved in care fraud: the bill Promote cooperation and legitimate care. In the second quarter of 2020, your Chamber will receive that bill. That's the second one. The third is the bill Promote Contracting. That bill too has to do with the application of these dike reinforcements. A lot has been said about the contracting. During the examination of that bill, we will of course use all the nuances again. But of course it's about a lot of uncontracted suppliers. There is an important part of the increase and also an important part of the concerns of health insurers, for example, but also of the inspection, in terms of quality and fraud. I certainly do not want to have said that they are all fraudulent providers. But I just want to say that that law also helps to strengthen the dams. That's number three. Then we have number four: the extension of the Law standards top incomes. It's coming this spring, too. Indeed, we have learned from a number of cases that you can easily bypass the norming top incomes Act because it is now linked to the WTZi authorisation. You can also bypass it through subcontracting. We don't want to do that, so we're gonna change that Law norming top incomes. We've already announced that. That adjustment is also going to your room this spring. Five: a number of measures around the personal budget. I won't dwell on that. But at least they are there to be much more precise on the front in determining who gets that personalized budget. Number six: a number of measures related to the Youth Act, in which we want to strengthen the role of authority. I will come back to that later. Seven: a number of measures related to WMO monitoring. I'm just saying this bill isn't on its own. This bill is not the only answer to all the cases we have seen passing over the past few years. This bill is a step. What we have done consciously is to take that step now. You should know that we have had a debate on this, even in our own house. Because we've been through this struggle too: what are you doing right? Are we gonna wait until we've thought about all the other things we'd like to add to it? But will not the better be the enemy of good? This bill adds a reporting obligation and replaces the licence requirement from the WTZi and is therefore an important step as such. That is why we want to take that step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u259	The Minister says it's a step. As I said earlier, it is a very limited step, given the great pooha that preceded it, also from the cabinet side. Surely this law should and could do much more than it is now actually going to bring about? I would like to ask the Minister why this follow-up, especially when it comes to the integrity of business operations, should take so long again. Why can't we have that law here before the summer, after it has gone into consultation in the spring? Because I can tell exactly how this is going to go. That law goes into consultation in the fall. This means that we are going to have elections here and that we are going to have a stage in which all kinds of legislation is declared controversial and that we are not going to hear anything about this for the next two years. It must be possible to do so more quickly, I think, especially when you consider that the Ministry has been thinking about the Wtza for two years and that in the meantime ideas about the follow-up have probably been written down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u260	I have a number of reactions to this. Firstly, I have looked again at why we are dealing with this law now, why we have not dealt with it before. Sometimes the Ministry was responsible for that because we came up with a new letter of amendment. So that's what we were responsible for ourselves. Sometimes it was also the Chamber that said: first we want to know how you deal with Alliade, how you deal with profit, how you deal with... Those two movements caused the delay. So I think we're both a little bit of a debt to that. That's one. Two: why not take care of everything you want in the context of business integrity? The honest answer is: because we have not yet found the perfect answer to everything we want. I will show this later, for example as regards the licensing obligation. I will show by example that we have not yet come to an end. This also has to do with the response to the amendments you and others have tabled. We didn't necessarily say: we're against it. I think we have the same search. We did say: if you do it like this, the number of disadvantages that such an amendment, such a change of law, brings in, is certainly as big as the profits you think you can achieve with it. Because we are actually looking for precision and not yet on all points, the follow-up legislative proposal is not yet here. Then the third part of my answer. In view of the recital in the preamble to the bill, Mr Van der Staaij referred to it, there can be no doubt as to what this bill is about. It concerns in particular the obligation to notify and then the obligation to permit, from the point of view of quality. That's the field of view that this bill has ever started with. Yes, we have widened the scope: for example, youth joined. So we have also applied a number of changes ourselves, but each time with the same look, each with the first connotation: quality, and ensuring that you are in scope at the inspection. That has always been the connotation of the changes we have made. In that we have remained faithful to the original intention of the bill, you might say. But there were other things, too. For example: to see if you could not increase the scope, perhaps not so much because of the quality but because of concerns you have about the integrity of your business. Or: deepening the licensing obligation, so you can check other things at the start. Of course, we are also thinking about these things, for example, following the description of the inspection or following Pointer's research into care cowboys. In that we saw examples come along that we said: you should not want to do that. Only, the solution isn't always the Wtza. The solution is sometimes an adaptation of the WNT. The solution is sometimes the legislative proposal for an Intelligent Business Care Provider, which is yet to come. Or all the other measures I just mentioned. So you can't solve with this bill all the social issues around parties that you would like to ward off in healthcare. This bill is taking a step, a very important and meaningful step, I think. I would not call that a small step, quite the contrary. But it's not the only step we have to take. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u261	I understand that, but of course it was this minister himself who, in the numerous debates we have had, has always referred to this day when it would be settled. And it has also been this minister who has often said on television or elsewhere in the media: wait and see, we are going to deal with the health cowboys, pay attention, the Wtza is coming and they will hear from us. Then the Minister cannot deny that there is a considerable disappointment if it all turns out to be a lot less than it is now. And that is all so far, but if there is a follow-up to new legislation, it does not have to take another three-quarters year. It must then be possible for us to have a debate on the follow-up before the summer. Because my prediction is that, with next year's elections, we will never hear from this minister or the other minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u262	First about the disappointment. The good news, in my view, is that this disappointment is not entirely justified when you see what a step forward this really is. There was no obligation to report, so there are now a lot of providers who are not at all in the picture at the inspection and where no risk-based monitoring can be carried out at all. Or it happens with a huge delay, because all databases mimic the accuratesse. In short, the supervision of new healthcare providers is simply not good enough at the moment. That's gotta get better. And so that bill must enter into force as soon as possible. And "as soon as possible" is indeed January 2021, which is why I am pleased that we are taking this step now. Or take the license. There is a lot to be said about this, and that is what I am going to do later, but that licence requirement is now not very accurate. It's gonna be much better. Perhaps it could be even better, in the future I do not want to rule that out, but let us stop it from becoming the enemy of good. Because what we are doing now is a serious, meaningful step that replaces what we now have. Then the reference to the Wtza. On July 9th you received a letter from us. In it is quite precise what is in the Wtza and what we are going to arrange in the other sections. At the end of November you received a letter from us in which, in addition, we indicate exactly what is happening in the Wtza and what is happening in all the other routes. In short, I have never caused any fog about it myself. I've never pretended the Wtza is a thousand-thing wipe for everything you've always wanted to solve. I want to solve all the other things with you, and so we have all the other pathways to settle that. We are making as much pace as possible, but I am really not yet thought out on a number of points. I'm going to give you an honest picture of what I'm not quite sure about myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u263	In the interim, I reached the request or the seven steps mentioned by the Minister plus the timelines can also be written down and can be shared with the Chamber. This in view of future debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u264	Certainly, Mr President, but the good news is that you have already received it once in the letter from the end of November. The good news is that you also received this once in a letter from October that was about the care fraud. Also in December, a letter has already been sent about the care fraud. Those were letters with these steps in them. So yes, of course I am more than willing to write it down again, but the good news is that you actually have it in writing once already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u265	I'd be happy to take that from you, but I just got this question. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u266	I'd like to touch on what Mr. Hijink brings up. We understand that we can't settle everything at once with the Wtza, but I do share Mr. Hijink's concerns about the bill on the integrity of the business. It may well be that this is declared controversial because there are just elections when the proposal comes to the Chamber. So I was wondering if the Minister could shed some light on the timetable and why that is really not possible for that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u267	In the autumn, that law goes into consultation. I am going to mention a number of things that we are not yet clear on, but in the autumn he is going to consult. Subsequently, it is expected to be submitted at the beginning of 2021, preferably in January. Whether you declare that law controversial, that's up to you. As far as I am concerned, you are not doing that, because this law is simply necessary, but you are discussing whether you are declaring him controversial. I'll be of the party anyway if you say you'd like to deal with it. I will be in favour of it anyway, Mr Bruins too, and I think Mr Blokhuis too. So it's not gonna be up to us. And you're in charge of the controversial statement yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u268	I'm going to continue with the Health Care Providers Act. The Minister now reiterates that it is his intention to consult that law this autumn. That's in nine months. That is a very nice wearing time, but the Minister himself has just said that he is six months pregnant by the Act of integrity. Because in July last year we were already referred to this in writing. Are you sure you can't go any faster? I think that question was also in the terms of my colleagues. What makes it so that, if you're dealing with a number of dilemmas right now, it's going to take you nine months to share those dilemmas with the field? If there are any dilemmas, can't you do it just as well before the summer or before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u269	First of all, I have no need to do it any slower than I can get it done in any way. That's one. Two. The same legislative lawyers who are required to draft the AMvBs of this bill must also draft the new law. That's two. Three. You can't do this without having a serious conversation with the field about the implications of this. In this area, I always notice the scope. It's always easy to think with your knees underneath the desk, but the moment you start shaping it into some kind of test of impact with the practice, you suddenly see: oh, here's something that I didn't mean at all, and oh, we didn't really want it, and oh, we actually had something else in mind. In short, it has to work. It has to work for regulators. It has to work for the implementation practice. And it has to be made by the same people who also have to work out all AMvBs under this law. We will not be slower than strictly necessary for a moment. By the way, you will get the Wet norming top incomes just this spring. I just mentioned a couple of laws that you'll get before the summer. So we can just take the steps that are needed, but we really need a little time to work out the integrity of the Business Act, the additional step on what you might have wanted to do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u270	That it takes a little time, I get it. I also understand some of the arguments that the Minister mentioned, ranging from 'they are the same people who need to do so' to 'of course we need to involve the field'. That's what I think, too. It just doesn't really want it to take me nine months from now. Because, of course, the thinking at the ministry has already started. You have the dilemmas. The minister himself just said he's gonna share some with the Chamber. So these dilemmas are in the picture. I want to make sure that it is going to take a very long time, especially with the inter-elections, and b that there is again a lot of expectations of a very large law that can't go any faster, but is going to be a bit disappointing when we get it. That is why I urge the Minister once again to put forward at least the autumn, the moment at which you want to conduct the consultation, and to involve the field and us in the dilemmas and considerations. I do not hear the Minister say the word, but it cannot be that he does not see the urgency and the need for a law like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u271	Of course not. Not for nothing did I just outline the steps we have to take. With this theme and all the examples of recent times, we all have the feeling that it cannot be true that these people with public money can start caring for such vulnerable people. That can't be true, can it? Of course, this same anger has led to ever-increasing insights, such as the notes of amendment that are covered by this bill and the announcement of the Act's integrity in business, partly on the basis of the description Alliade. This has also led to the WNT bill, the amendment of the Top Income Standards Act, and to the IKZ bill. These are always very complex laws, very complex legislative processes. The alert register in the bill improved cooperation legitimate care is easily pronounced, but extremely difficult to shape. 'Cause what are you gonna sit on? You're gonna sit on convictions? Then you'll probably be able to keep very few people out of the door. But you cannot, so to speak, impose a professional ban on people at the first rumour. Of course, it can't work that way. So how do you do that? How do you keep doing that in technology? With farming logic you know exactly what you want, but in technology it is sometimes really looking for how you do it in a good, responsible way. And it takes time. It just takes time. Of course, I grilled our legal lawyers three times before I had to give you this answer, because I would prefer to say: next month you will have it from us. But then I'm sure I'm not gonna keep that promise. So again, the promise is: not a week slower than strictly necessary. But I'm not going to promise any more than I'm saying right now, because this is the outcome of an intrusive conversation with our people about what we can deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u272	At the beginning of his speech, the Minister mentioned a number of laws and actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u273	Seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u274	I think it is very good that the Minister should also send an overview to the Chamber in writing, so that we all have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u275	Plus the dates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u276	Plus the dates, yeah. Let me ask you a question about the planning. If something can't go any faster, it can, but somehow expectations have been raised. I've never heard the word "care cowboy" so often. If the law is not dealt with in this cabinet period, I believe that this is an adaptation of the images I have received from the media so far. The Minister says: in the autumn consultation. Then you still have the Council of State. When are we going to get that law as a chamber? If that is not until the end of January, by February, we will have to make a written contribution and we will not be able to make it. I would rather hear from the Minister: it is simply not going to work in this cabinet period. Otherwise, we'll have some kind of hope that it's gonna work, but I don't see it flying when the minister consults in the fall, it's gonna go to the Council of State and then to the Chamber. That is why we are making a written contribution. Or does the Minister say that you are a little too pessimistic, that I am still being treated in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u277	The latter is the subject of an important part of you. And yes, I'm going to write down those seven adjacent topics and pathways we're working on, of course. They were, once again, already in the letters of 9 July and of October, November and December last year. The bill will be subject to consultation in the autumn. If I do the math, I'll be heading for Room by January. What steps are we going to take next, you are there yourself. As far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna continue the treatment because it's necessary. In my opinion, there is no such controversy that you should declare the bill controversial. I don't think there's anyone who doesn't want to. You can go any further or want other things in it, but there's no one who doesn't want it. So I'd think it could be treated. To us, to the cabinet it won't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u278	Then I would like a more detailed planning on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u279	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u280	'After year' gives rise to the expectation that it will succeed. But if it is autumn December, it is of a very different order. Then we in the Chamber can see whether it is going to work at all, also in the context of expectations management.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u281	Fine. I think that's a very good deal. That's a very good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u282	To get it even sharper: under "Adults" I understand Q3. Well, that seems to me to be the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u283	Consultation in the autumn will be the third quarter. Otherwise, you're not gonna make it to the Chamber in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u284	However, I would like to say that I find it a little faint of the Minister to say that you are talking about whether or not you are declaring something controversial. Planning puts this at a time when we are running the risk of doing so. At the time it is there earlier, we do not run that risk and we can make a normal decision on this cabinet period. So again an urgent appeal: make sure that it is there as early as possible, so that we can finally make a decision about it with each other during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u285	Again, it won't be me. It's not gonna take a week longer than strictly necessary. A number of general questions have been asked, which I shall do straight away. Then we'll move on to reporting duty. GroenLinks asked what is actually central to this law, which is actually the purpose. This is in line with a question put by Mr Van der Staaij. I would like to emphasise that the aim of this law is quality. You are looking at new providers who start in our care with the glasses on of quality. This has already started in the previous cabinet period, but one of the reasons to be on top of it is the inspection investigation which shows that 89% of cases do not comply with all laws and regulations. It's not all that serious, but it's serious enough. At all, the number is serious enough to say: we should not have that anymore. The second observation of the inspection is that a large part of the providers remain completely outside the scope. We will not see them until later, for example when they enter via other systems. In short, that was the reason and in fact we have seen new examples over the past two years that explain why we need to be even more vigilant about who is starting. For example, the proportion of new youth aid providers has risen so absurdly that you cannot ignore that. That was the reason for the third letter of amendment. Even when you look at the number of providers in the district care, for example, that is rising so incredibly fast that this is barely able to keep pace. That is why we say: we must have it in view, but always with the aim of quality. Perhaps in this context I should also deal with the last amendment that has been tabled. I think it was even filed after the first term, because I only just saw it. This amendment in part No. 41 actually emphasises the purpose of this law. It underlines what is already in the preamble. I leave this amendment to the Court's judgement, also in order to clarify what this law is about in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u286	That is Mr Van der Staaij's amendment to item No. 41 and that gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u287	An important question has been put by Mrs Ellemeet, but also by Mr Van der Staaij. How does this go on? It will not be the case, Mrs Ellemeet, but it will be the case that this law will be implemented with integrity and that it will be based on a different way of working or on another scope of providers who would or would not be covered by it, or on a different way of operating the licence obligation or so, so that we can slide back and forth all the time and are not sufficiently consistent in the direction of the field. The answer is no. It can't work like that. On the contrary, we have said quite deliberately: we certainly want to think about this. I shall come back to this in a moment about the broadening of the scope of the licence requirement and about the depth of the licence requirement. So, what demands do you make and in what precision do you do that, but with the same system. It is not the case that suppliers are now subject to the licensing obligation and will suddenly not be able to do so. It can't be, because that's not consistent. Mr Van der Staaij had another doubt. He said: if you are a provider and you have to look into one law for your demands regarding quality and in the other law regarding the requirements for integrity in business, then that will be a bit of a bit of a bit of a bitch, I say in my own words. That is very unclear for healthcare providers. That, of course, cannot be the case either. The Act will build on the system we set out here, with the obligation to notify and the licensing requirement as a basis. The requirements that we are now subject to the licensing requirement have been laid down in the law for the purpose of quality, as you underlined in your amendment. On the basis of the same system, we continue to operate the Act with integrity, but with the aim of sound management. That makes us very consistent with what we're doing right now. Is this robust? Is this a system that lasts for years? Yeah, that's our bet. Then I've had most of the general questions. Well, no, maybe one more question from the SP. It came across in a number of forms, but the SP has made him the most pregnant. How do we prevent healthcare companies from stopping and starting over? I think you put it in another way, and I'm just gonna translate it as, how do you prevent spin-door carers you don't want in it, who you just want to get rid of? You avoid this in a number of ways. One. In the bill Promote cooperation and legitimate care, which you will receive before the summer, we have included a warning register of care fraud for health insurers, health offices and municipalities. This allows clubs that have previously run into the lamp to be kept out. That's one. Two. The Bill Promote Contracting Care also helps, although in a very different way. The framework for pgb-skill, in which we want to judge much better in the front, whether the person applying for a pgb, or his mentor, is able to quickly see that someone is not good and therefore should not be hired, is already being tried out at the moment. We are considering to what extent you should make this part of legislation. We haven't quite figured that out yet. The capacity of the inspection has, of course, been increased. Finally, I would like to further extend and set up the Wtza license in the law of Internal Business Care Providers, in order to be able to prevent providers who have wrong intentions or who have already gone wrong in front of them. In this sum, I think I fully respond to the concerns expressed by the director of DSW. That said, and rightly so, that everything you can keep out then very much saves in enforcement and investigation. So better stop providers at the gate instead of having to be endlessly behind after you let them in once. In that case, the work you have on such a club is many times bigger. In short, I think we are doing a great deal in the sum total to keep out these type of revolving door types.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u288	The reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u289	Then we'll go to reporting duty, Mr. Chairman. The obligation to notify must ensure that you return to the purpose of the law that you have in mind all providers so that there may be risk-oriented supervision. The latter is not the case now, because not all providers are in the picture. In addition, you want to use that start-up moment immediately to let providers know what requirements they have to meet. That was the question of a number of speakers: what does this mean in concrete terms for providers that are going to start? Now, this means that if you start as a provider, you have to report this. And it also means that from that moment on you can expect visit from the insection if you come into the picture. In addition, you will be immediately informed about the fact that you have to meet the requirements for your part of the care from the start. That's the starting moment. That's the duty of reporting. That actually changes for day-to-day practice when it comes to reporting obligations alone. I think it was the spokesperson of the SP who said that this also has something of a paper reality. That's right. I'm sure you're right about the duty of reporting. That's also conscious. You make a report and with that you are within the scope of the inspection, but you will really notice something about that when you get the inspection visit. And that has to do with risk-based supervision; I will explain this in a moment. In addition, you will be informed about the requirements you have to meet. That might seem like a small step. In fact, you might also think: wasn't it long ago? The answer to that is: no, it wasn't long ago. As a result, we also know that we do not have a large proportion of suppliers in the picture at the moment. How are we gonna find out that healthcare providers aren't checking in? That is what Mr Kerstens and Mrs Dik-Faber asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u290	I had another question about that other point. I am pleased that the Minister is giving a brief outline of how this process is going for healthcare providers. It may seem a standard question, but what are the quality requirements given? Do they come from the law? Or are there other demands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u291	Those are the professional standards. You have to comply with the Wkkgz, but that depends a bit on the sector, the Wgbo, the BIG Act and the sectoral professional requirements. So basically a kind of information package is compiled by sector. That's what people get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u292	That was indeed my next question: what does it look like? That is an information package, with reference to sites, so that a provider knows exactly: these are the requirements I have to meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u293	Yes. So that no one can say, yes, but I didn't know at all that I had to meet it. This is what the inspection very often notes: suppliers who do not meet the requirements, but who also did not know that they had to meet those requirements. As a result, the inspection is on the chair of some kind of informant who has to say: you should have complied with all of that. The inspection has wasted a lot of time on that and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u294	And who's gonna push it? I'm just trying to visualize it right now. Then all these providers, including the existing ones, thanks to Mrs Van den Berg's amendment, will join us and they will receive a set?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u295	Yeah, that's the CIBG. He doesn't bring a set in a linen bag; it's not like that. That'll probably just be sent over. At the CIBG you have to make the notification and that is also the authority that provides the information package. This information package is, of course, compiled with the inspection, the NZa and the Zorginstituut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u296	I'm just trying to visualize it a little bit more. Suppose I say I want to inject fillers and botox...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u297	Look, you're gonna hear something on a Wednesday night!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u298	You're gonna hear something. It says: that is a reserved act and therefore you must be BIG registered. When you say you want to do that, isn't it asked: fill in your BIG number here? So do you have to prove right away that you meet the requirements of that particular care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u299	That is actually the next block, I say in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg. If Mrs Van den Berg starts an e.g. for botox and so on, she will be subject to authorisation anyway, because that is an invasive act. In any case, then, she will have a medical-specialist company in which she will be subject to a licence in any case. Suppose Van den Berg counts only one employee, then she is still subject to a licence, because we all want that type of company in view. Then you will indeed have to comply with the permit requirements. But this was about reporting obligations. This applies to all the new institutions. They have to come forward. They do that at the CIBG. They get an information package tailored to the requirements that are valid for the sector in question, so that one can never say again: I did not know that I had to meet them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u300	I conclude that I have taken the wrong example, excuse me. Suppose I am going to provide care that is not subject to authorisation, do I not have to justify my competence, my ability in any way? I refer to the example of Mr René Peters, who said: I found a youth institution for autistic children who also did the storage of flammable gases. A little relevant experience would be useful before people can start caring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u301	You have a license obligation. You can check it in front on a number of aspects. By the way, there is no limit to what you can test. You have to be able to live up to it all. We are talking about a rather large healthcare sector in the Netherlands, with more than 60,000 providers. When you report it, you report it. That means you'll be in the scope of the inspection from that moment on. Through a selection, the inspection comes to a risk-oriented choice whether you are visited or not. From day one you will have to comply with the Wkkgz, with the Law BIG, with all professional requirements. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR [...] So you have to live up to it. Do you have to prove in advance that you're up to it? No. That's not workable either. It can't be. It's about a thousand new suppliers a year! Then we can double the CIBG in terms of execution capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u302	Mrs Ellemeet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u303	If I understand the Minister correctly, he says, at least you can never say that you didn't know, because you should have known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u304	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u305	That's one. There's something else I'm trying to imagine. So it's a very limited list. We have also read that you can fill that in ten minutes and thus provide all the information for the reporting obligation. I'm trying to imagine what information the inspection will have on the basis of which she can do that risk control. How can such a list, which you can fill in in ten minutes, contain sufficient information for the inspection, so that it also has added value for the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u306	That is the nature and extent of the legal form. That's the sector you're working on, for example. It is a set of requirements that the AMvB is currently being worked out on the basis of which the inspection at least has enough to carry out risk-based monitoring. That's what needs to be done. If you're a soloist, for example, I don't think you're immediately on the retina of the inspection, so he thinks: we have to go through that tomorrow. It's just weighing the magnitude of the risk. With a soloist that is of course judged differently, although it still depends on what that soloist does, because if that botox and fillers and so on you are still licensed. But when it comes to a soloist in community nursing, for example, it's unbelievable. It's about thousands of soloists! That an inspector will be standing next to it immediately before that person gets to work. But if, for example, it is a neighborhood nurse company that is really new and that starts at once with 30 people at the same time, I think that the tendency of the inspection will be a little bigger to take a look there. 'Cause 30 people at work, that's maybe 100 clients. Well, then it's definitely a provider of some size. It will depend on whether you fall into the filter of risk-oriented supervision. At the moment we are in the AMvB working out the requirements that you have to meet, but that must be a clear list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u307	I think it's a rather unfortunate example. We know that there are between 8,000 and 10,000 new providers a year, a very large part of which are soloists. It may well be that each individual soloist-working health care provider presents a relatively small risk. But what I find so striking about the figures we have received from the Minister is that the number of soloists is huge. It seems to me that if you add it up, the risks with those soloists are the greatest in the end. I'm kind of looking. You have all that data from all those thousands of soloists that come in every year. To what extent is the obligation to notify helping the inspection to organise the monitoring properly? I understand it's very complicated, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u308	The soloists are also subject to risk-based supervision, but in a different way, i.e. via reports, for example with the LMZ soloist reports, they are indeed checked out or reports that come in in a different way. There may also be reports from fellow healthcare providers who see a soloist working and thinking: well, I wouldn't like it as much with my own mother as that was the neighborhood nurse. It's possible. Of course, such reports also come in and are indeed within the scope of risk-based supervision. This is about the obligation to notify and then the way in which the inspection with new suppliers makes a sort of selection: who should I keep my finger on and who can it be with at a later date or on the basis of reports we receive? Then the inspection will not make the weighing to drop soloists in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u309	I'm going to finish, because we're going into the details very deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u310	I'm not quite convinced yet, but I'm assuming that the inspection is very well addressed in developing the AMvB, I suppose. They know what they need better than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u311	Exactly, so that's how it's worked out right now. Mr. Chairman. Then I shall go to the amendments, because I think that on that basis I can explain how the obligation to notify continues to work. After that, I'll have a few more questions. I shall go first to the CDA amendment. That says: it's nice that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u312	That is now the amendment to item No. 24 on the second bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u313	Together with GroenLinks. The amendment says: in fact, I would like to extend this obligation of notification to all existing providers. I must honestly say that when I first saw the amendment, I thought, "Oh dear, where do we get all these inspectors?" Because all those existing providers, there are quite a few. But then I saw that the technical design is so that you can actually exclude anything that is already in the picture in a different way at AMvB. That way I can work with it. However, to be absolutely sure that we understand what this is about, I am going to tell you how I would like to proceed with this amendment. How does the inspection look if you're on camera or not? This is done by the inspection based on the National Register of Healthcare Providers, the LRZa. The LRZa is filled from a number of other databases. A first database is the Trade Register. If you want to be good at that, you have to enter the right SBI code. You must make yourself known as a healthcare provider in the Trade Register. Two is the AGB register, the payment register of the health insurance companies and the health offices. That is a second important source of information. By the way, this has been made so final that if you have not reported according to the notification obligation, you may not enter the AGB register either. If you are not in the AGB register, so if you do not have an AGB code, you can also not make digital payment. That is a very important trigger to meet the reporting obligation anyway. Three is the annual account. Once you've provided the annual account, you'll be in a register anyway, and that will be linked to the LRZa. Then you have the permit file. You're also in there and then you're in the national register. Then you have the SVB file for the pgb providers, the BIG registry and also the parties who have provided quality data to the Healthcare Institute. If you have met these things, you will be in any register and thus also in the National Register of Healthcare Providers. In short, the majority of providers are now in the picture at the inspection via that National Register Healthcare Providers because it uses a number of other databases. What this amendment is doing is imposing an obligation on existing providers. Imagine that the particular case arises that you are, for example, a pgb provider and only submit paper invoices to your client or that you do not appear in one of those other registers for any other reason. Then you have a duty to report to the inspection as a new provider. I believe that this is a good design, because it ensures that all providers are in the picture at the inspection and that you do not impose additional bureaucratic burdens on existing providers who are already in any other way in the picture at the same inspection. You also don't allow the inspection to go to all kinds of new providers who were actually just in the picture in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u314	Then what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u315	This will allow the amendment to be judged by the Chamber, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u316	Exactly. Then Mr... I mean Mrs. Van den Berg. Sorry. I saw Mr Veldman standing behind you, but you really are the first Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that the Minister is looking at how to minimise the administrative burden on current providers. I understand. Then may I conclude two things? Reporting as such would not give new information to the inspection, because they already have everything you do with a notification on the left or right in a file somewhere. That can also easily be matched with each other. The second is that it may be that someone is already in all those registers, but actually doesn't know which laws he has to comply with. Does everyone get a virtual goodie bag somewhere like some kind of automatism, to call it that? Or do you do separate communication for everyone who already exists: if you are not sure what to meet, you can find it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u318	I'm gonna take these two questions apart. The first question is whether if you implement the amendment in this way everyone comes across from the inspection. The answer is yes. The second question is whether that does not mean new actions for those parties. That's right. I am going to implement it in this way, and that means that all providers who are already in another way via any other file in the National Register of Healthcare Providers will not be given an obligation to report back to the National Register of Healthcare Providers by this amendment. So that's the second one. This reduces the administrative burden. The third question is whether if you do not re-register you will still receive the treatment from the CIBG as if you were a new provider. The answer to that question is no, because then you have to report as a new provider. Thus, for example, all those small pgb providers who only declare on paper and therefore do not have an AGB code are obliged to register as a new provider. There have also been youth care providers recently who do not offer Wlz or Zvw care, so they are not in the national register. If they are not in the Trade Register in one way or another or are not on the proper code in the Trade Register, I'll mention but a side street, they won't automatically be in the picture either. They have a duty to notify under this amendment and are therefore indeed treated as a new reporter, even though they have been working for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u319	It's important what the minister just said. If I entered the wrong code in the Trade Register, that's my responsibility. So I'm gonna have to make sure that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u320	Yes. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u321	I don't care if the C.I.B.'s gonna do all kinds of extra work. I am concerned that there is a one-time kind of general communication. It may well be that I have been a healthcare provider in good faith for some time and that I have never heard of the Wkkgz before, so to speak. I was just wondering if that's how information is given once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u322	I think that's an incredible amount of work, so I'm not going to say yes to that immediately. The second thing I'm going to say is this. If you're a traffic user, you have to stop for red light, whether you've had traffic lessons or not in elementary school's seventh grade. You're just supposed to know the law. This also applies to providers who provide care funded by the Health Insurance Act. They're just supposed to know the law. So whether they know or not, I don't know, but they should know anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u323	I shall continue with Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u324	It is very good of Mrs van den Berg that she has explicitly stated in her amendment in the explanatory statement that bringing the current providers under the obligation of reporting will, of course, lead to additional costs. If I understand the Minister correctly, he will be able to embrace this amendment, because with the x number of instrument registers we have, this is probably something to look over. However, I would like to ask the Minister if he has any indication of the costs. If he is unable to give it now, will he then make the costs visible in the elaboration of any exceptions in the AMvB and bring them into the budget and explicate them? This must, of course, be in the picture from 21 January 2021, the intended date of entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u325	This law, in any case, but certainly also this amendment, and possibly a few other amendments, will, of course, lead to implementation costs. So depending on what is assumed, that certainly means implementation costs. I don't mind, because it serves a good cause. I think it's understandable, too. The mere fact that something has implementation costs cannot be another reason not to amend a legislative proposal, because, yes, then we do not have to legislate here. I see it as a task to take this into account in the next budget. I can tell you in the budget what the implementation implications of this bill are. How does this work? If the law has been passed and the inspection has to prepare itself for the implementation of the law, then the inspection with our Deputy Secretary-General, as owner of the inspection department, will discuss its implications. Anyway, this bill needs a number of dozens of extra people on the supervisory side, is my assessment. This would add to that. That's right. But let me do it this way. I am going to present this in the usual way, namely that legislative proposals and the implications of legislative proposals are simply budgeted at the test by the performers. That is, of course, a discussion that we then have as a department with the inspection. With regard to the budget, I would like to give an idea of the size of the budget and the way in which we have covered it, because that is, I think, a second question in which you might be interested in under your budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u326	That would have been a good second question, but the Minister has already answered it without me asking it. Then let me ask another second question. It is good and good that we have this in common with each other in the budget. The amendment states that the request to exclude groups from AMvB may be made, depending on where they are in the picture. When developing the AMvB, can the Minister explain why the choice is made, linked to the implementation burden? If you make the list that the minister just mentioned larger or smaller, the implementation costs will also be smaller or greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u327	I think I would like to make the agreement with you that I am going to implement this amendment in such a way that we have zero doubles, or almost zero doubles. So that settings that are already in another way, because they already appear in the database, no longer need to report again anyway. So I would like to choose the most ludicrous implementation of this amendment, both on the part of the providers and on the part of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u328	Before I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, I would just like to say that the Minister still has 22 decisions to make on amendments. This amendment is judged by Chamber. If five MPs ask for it, it's gonna be very late. Mr. Van der Staaij, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u329	I am going to help you, Mr President, because my question was whether this was not also an assessment of the amendment on item No. 39 on the first bill. I have heard the Minister speak much more broadly than just about youth aid, and that is the amendment on item No. 39 on the first bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u330	Also by members Van den Berg and Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u331	I do not have Amendment No 39 here in my pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u332	I think he belongs to Mr Bruins. Can that be true? Because I think it's about the IGZ, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u333	The amendment that you, Mr President, just referred to with No. 24, is about a pre-existing youth support provider. Amendment No. 39 on the first bill has a much wider scope, with exactly the same scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u334	I can't see it this way, but if I get the amendment for a second, I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u335	That's to replace 30. Maybe you have that number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u336	Maybe I have 30 here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u337	That's about the IGJ.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u338	36 is to replace 30. This is the extension of the reporting obligation to all existing providers with the exception of categories designated by AMvB. I think it's meant to be. No, it's 39 years old. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u339	Yeah, 39.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u340	Excuse me. Yes, Mr Van der Staaij is right. That's right. One is about youth; you are absolutely right about that. I just gave the assessment that goes with this amendment. Both actually do the same: one on the youth aid providers, the other on the other on the other providers already at AMvB. That's right. This gives them the same judgment: both judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u341	Okay. That for Amendment No 1, which was rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u342	The Minister began to say that the bill we are discussing tonight is quite a big step, that it is not a small step at all and that one of the two most important elements is reporting. The Minister then lists a very interesting series of registers, with which he actually indicates: we already have almost all the providers in mind, so whether we introduce that obligation of notification or not, new entrants too, perhaps a few percent do not come in one way or another, via one of these registers, almost automatically. Or didn't I follow something right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u343	No, it's not a few percent. On the one hand, the youth aid providers do not appear in this way, unless they have registered in a certain way in the Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce. Two is that a huge time passes before the Trade Register is technically translated into the LRZa. If you have to get the new provider treatment from the inspection, it is very vulnerable. That could be over a year in between. So, no, it's not. However, I am trying to implement Mrs van den Berg's amendment on the most administrative basis. But I really want new providers to be reported immediately and from day one that they care, on the retina of the inspection. That wouldn't be the case if you did it through the ways and exception categories I just described on the overall obligation for existing providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u344	Clear. What Mrs Van den Berg and I are concerned about is that you can not only get an image of existing providers through the existing registers, which is a smart route, but that they, like the new entrants, know what is expected of them. Because the step we are taking with this bill is better information. That's quite important indeed. The essence of our amendment is precisely that this better information is available not only for new entrants but also for the rest. That is at the heart of the amendment, I would just like to emphasise for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u345	I get it. I see the point, but before I say yes to that, I really want to be able to test whether that can be carried out at all, because I can't make promises here that I can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u346	I have a technical question about franchise constructions. Are these franchise organizations covered by this bill? Because often they don't care for themselves. They supply them through all kinds of other constructions, but of course there are also some things that happen that we say: it is nice if these franchise organisations are included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u347	Yes, once they have a responsibility within the meaning of the Wkkgz they are obliged to report, so my answer would be yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u348	What if they're under that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u349	Yeah, if they have a responsibility in the sense of the Wkkgz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u350	And are most of the franchise organisations included? Because you have, for example, the Three Notenbooms and that kind of organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u351	The youth aid providers, again, are not, but let me take a very precise look at this question. For example, youth aid providers are not covered by the Wkkgz. But with the broadening of the scope of the Wtza to youth aid providers again, that depends a little on which part of the care is designed for the franchise and which part of the franchisee. It depends a little bit on that. I would think that the bulk of it will fall under this heading, but I am going to check very precisely in what legal form and in what legal form not. But it is important that there should be care as provided for in the Wkkgz or in the Youth Act where clients are dealt with, so where the reasoning for that obligation arises. So you fall within the scope of the Wtza. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u352	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u353	It would be nice if the Minister would come back to that in the second term. I get that point. But you also want to try to fight wrongdoing. It is not the case that all franchise organisations cause abuses. Definitely not. But there are also some of which you think: we do not want that kind of construction. Those structures, the franchise organisations, often do not provide the care themselves, but they do have an important control when it comes to, for example, the quality of that care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u354	I'm gonna check it out very closely. But my thesis would be: wherever there is work with children and the elderly, or at least with clients or patients. The fact that you work with these people, funded by one of the different laws, means that you are under the Wkkgz or under the Youth Act, and that brings you into the scope of the Wtza. Mr. Chairman. I shall now move on to the amendment to item No. 33. That is the SP amendment. It calls for the target group of the reporting obligation and the licensing obligation to be extended to subcontractors. This amendment is partly superfluous, but I have to say that we have already extended this obligation of notification to subcontractors through the third letter of amendment. Mr Hijink was expecting a thank you, which I am giving him. In addition, the third letter of amendment to the AWtza extended the annual responsibility obligation to, in principle, all existing Zvw and welfare providers, including subcontractors. With that... Wait a minute...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u355	Is it about another amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u356	It is about the amendment to item No. 33 in place of the amendment to item No. 33 in order to replace Amendment No. 33 in order to replace Amendment No. 33 in order to replace Amendment No. 33 in order to replace Amendment No. 33 in order to replace Amendment No. 33 in order
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u357	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u358	I'd like to explain. What this amendment aims to do... It's there, too. We're talking about No. 33, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u359	Yeah, we're still talking about No. 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u360	It says: "regulates that healthcare providers who are also subject to notification and authorisation within the context of the care provided within another institution, to the extent that the Wkkgz applies to that other institution." This means that subcontractors have both a notification obligation and a licence obligation which they do not have in the law as proposed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u361	I'd think they'd have it by the letter of amendment I sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u362	Yeah, he'll take care of the duty of reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u363	Yes. And the licensing obligation hangs... Oh, it's that one. Okay. You are actually saying that it should not only be subject to a notification requirement, but also a licence requirement. That is what we are saying: this reporting obligation is meant to be seen. We want sub-contractors to come in. I have just heard a wide-ranging discussion on the extent to which the inspection may or may not monitor subcontractors and the extent to which they are subject to inspection. As soon as you provide care as intended in the Wkkgz, you will also be under the supervision of the inspection, so there is no need to worry about the supervision. Then I'll ask you if you're licensed. In the Wkkgz structure, the licensing obligation is always linked to the main contractor. That also makes sense, because the main contractor is the first to be responsible for the way in which he arranges his care. At the moment when it would not be right with the subcontractor again, because of that obligation of notification you come into the picture as a subcontractor, the main contractor is called upon to do so. That's according to the Wkkgz. So I don't think that licensing obligation actually adds anything to that. They are in the picture via the reporting obligation and they are under inspection supervision anyway. Since, according to the construction, the main contractor is actually always responsible for meeting all the requirements, the permit requirement is sufficient only for the main contractor to lapse under that permit requirement. So you don't have to have a separate license requirement for subcontractors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u364	And with that you come to the judgment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u365	Needless to say, it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u366	I don't think what the Minister says is true. This also affects the other amendment I tabled together with Mrs Ellemeet on the role of inspection, which cannot supervise subcontractors. The Council of State has also cracked some notes about that. He says: "What is the point of this reporting obligation if the role of the inspection does not change? For the inspection supervises the main contractor and not the subcontractor." In this sense, these amendments are also linked. I do not think it is right that the inspection now has a supervisory role over subcontractors, because that role only applies to the main contractor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u367	I do not share that view. If, as an institution, you start to work in healthcare, and you give care that falls under the Wkkgz, you will be under the supervision of the inspection, whether you are a principal or a subcontractor. The point is that the inspection does not know about these subcontractors, often because they are not self-employed. Therefore, these subcontractors should indeed be covered by the obligation to notify. By the way, one of the most important points is that this sub-contractor structure is often used. Mr Hijink already said it in his own contribution to avoid the WNT. So we will shape that WNT adjustment in such a way that it has a direct effect on the subcontractors. As far as licensing is concerned, I would think that it has no added value, because all the requirements that you would like to check under the licensing obligation... It's fine to check those demands with the main contractor. Because if you do not meet those requirements, the permit will lapse. Or more importantly, that permit can be revoked. This then has an effect in the direction of subcontractors. So towards the permit requirements I would think it is not necessary. However, it is necessary in order to be visible at the inspection. That is why we had accepted your amendment in part by broadening the reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u368	You are referring again to a second amendment. That is the Ellemeet/Hijink amendment in part No. 20 (34768)?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u369	That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u370	It is nice if we inform each other as well as we inform each other about which amendments we are talking about. Otherwise, it's gonna be too complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u371	Mrs Ellemeet gives me what the Council of State says about this, but it can also be the Minister: 'The IGJ and the Minister can indeed only impose measures on the main contractor and not on the subcontractor for failure to comply with the provisions on quality, complaints and disputes.' GroenLinks and the SP believe that there is a gap in supervision there. Of course, it is useful that the main contractor bears his responsibility and is also called upon to fail, but it is also important, of course, that the moment the inspection sees that it is going wrong with the subcontractor, it can be dealt with immediately and that it provides for sanctions, both for those who fail as subcontractors and for the main contractor. That is the background to both amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u372	You are now quoting directly from a report by the Council of State. That's what I'd think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u373	For correction: this is the Minister's response to the Council of State's criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u374	I'm gonna go back to this, or we're gonna be freestyling; we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u375	Does this mean that the judgments on the two motions mentioned...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u376	It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 33 and you just mentioned no. 20. I haven't come across that in my pile yet, but it could be because it's in the licensing process. In any case, the amendment to item No. Thirty-three, I'll hold until I've been able to be briefed. I will do so shortly after Mr Bruins' term. Mr. Chairman. Let me look at the other amendments which are still subject to reporting obligations. That is the amendment to item No. 36 (34767) of the SP Group. This ensures that the healthcare provider specifies more specifically in the notification whether and how it meets the definition of good care. That's what we're going to involve in the elaboration. I can give the judgment Chamber, but I'll do it administratively. If there are whole epistles to be written about how they are going to comply with the Wkkgz or the BIG Law, you are not going to wait for that either. So it really has to add something, with as little bureaucratic burden as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u377	The amendment in part No. 36 (34767) is judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u378	That's good. I am not so much concerned with BIG as with complying with standards of quality, the law that we have recently discussed. I would indeed have liked to stress that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u379	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u380	Are we ready for licensing? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u381	Yes, that is the amendment in part No. 34 (34767) by Mr Kerstens. He's not in the room, but I know he's always watching through the monitor. I'm not going to recommend that amendment. The amendment regulates a veil on the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u382	The amendment in part No. 34 (34767) has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u383	Of course, I'm going to promise you that I'm going to send that AMvB to the Chamber, but I'm going to do it in such a way that we don't waste any time, because I want that AMvB to work out on time, of course. If I do that Internet consultation in order and a wallpaper in the Chamber, I'm not gonna make it in time. So I'm going to do the Internet consultation and send it to the Chamber in parallel, so that the Chamber also has the opportunity to give its opinion on that. But I'm going to do it in parallel and not in order. This does not mean that there will be a formal suspension procedure, but of course you will have the opportunity to respond before the AMvB enters into force. So I'm going to dissuade the amendment, but I'm actually going to do as you ask, if you don't mind. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions that I need to answer here as well. The PvdA and the Christian Union have asked how we find out that providers who are obliged to report have not complied with their reporting obligations. There are actually three ways to do that. Firstly, it can be because of a notification from others, who say: how can that be; does the provider actually comply with the laws and regulations? Then that provider will be reported, not so much in the sense of "you did not report to the inspection," but in the sense of "it can never be that that provider meets the requirements that fit within the profession." For example, if you, as a fellow neighbourhood nurse, see someone in a very lousy way indicting, that is worth a mention. At that moment the inspection can therefore discover: hey, it is not in the register with us at all; it has started new but it has not complied with the reporting obligation at all. The second possibility is data mining. That is still a bit in its infancy, but that is what the inspection is doing. For example, if you advertise as a provider, but you are now not known in any registry, you can get a picture in that way. I'm deliberately saying that's still in its infancy. That's not gonna be done tomorrow, but they're working on it. A third possibility, which Mrs Dik-Faber also hinted at, I thought, is whether you should not make it clear to the public, to patients and clients, whether or not you are in the national register. But that would actually mean the opening up of the National Register of Healthcare Providers to the public. Technically, it's not ready yet, but I'm really willing to see if that's not possible. This would also provide an answer to Mr Kerstens' question as to how we can ensure that the public itself can check that a provider has complied with the obligation to notify and is therefore in the picture at the inspection. It is not yet that far, but that would be my answer. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have had the most important questions about reporting obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u384	There is still a question from Mr Hijink about the obligation to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u385	I had asked the Minister about the reporting obligation that will apply to the youth care providers. I asked how this would then be done in cooperation with municipalities. Are they at the same time informed at the time of notification? How will the cooperation be between the inspection that receives the notification and the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u386	I'd think those files would be linked to each other, too. Apart from that, of course, the municipality's suppliers are also in the picture through the contract, or it must be an uncontracted provider, but that is actually much less common in municipal care. That depends a bit on the way in which providers contract. But for municipalities it is quite simple in that sense. You know who you sign a contract with and who you don't sign a contract with. If your system of guidance allows you to receive care from an uncontracted healthcare provider without the permission of the municipality, you as a municipality may at any time receive an invoice from a provider who has provided care to a child, in which you do not really know that provider. But if you tighten the way of contracting more than is the case in a number of municipalities now, then that does not have to be the case. The same applies to Wmo surveillance. I shall come back to that in more detail later. There, municipalities themselves have the opportunity to strengthen dike. Two is that a link must be made. I do not know how this link is technically established, but there must be a link between the obligation to report to the inspection and that the municipality knows about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u387	In theory, the Minister is right, but we have had a conversation here before about the fact that some municipalities accidentally find out that a youth care provider is based at a certain address. Of course, that's weird, but it happens. I would find it very useful if, at the time when a report arrives at the inspection, for example that a certain youth care provider has reported himself, and that some alarm bells go off at the inspection, is switched directly to the municipality and then it is said: remember, guys, we have received a report from a youth care provider that raises our red flags; go there for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u388	But let's just figure out how this is gonna work. As a municipality, you know what kind of care you contract. Grosso mode is that also all care provided, unless you have in your contract form stated "anyone who provides care to our children and can jump over a number of thresholds may provide care to us" and the instruction is such that you can go to a provider, even if you have no contract, and can throw that invoice over the fence. Then the case that Mr Hijink sketches can indeed occur. A number of municipalities have designed this way. By the way, I think there are things about that, namely that it is unwise. The second is that, of course, a new provider is reporting because he is a new provider. But he doesn't have to report 355 times when he becomes a new provider in another municipality. The question is therefore also in what way this notification will then be known in that municipality at the time of the inspection. That's a question I don't know the answer to. Because you're reporting as a new healthcare provider. For example, you register with the Chamber of Commerce in Rotterdam. But with that it is not said that you do not also care in Vlaardingen or in The Hague. Of course you can. In the sense of the Wtza you are not a new healthcare provider who should report again, but then you may be known in one municipality and not yet in the other. Whether that's all tight and tight, I honestly don't know. I'm gonna go check on the technology for you. But the purpose of the notification under the Wtza is in any case to get a picture at the inspection. And the purpose of being in the picture with the municipality is because you have a contractual relationship. Those are actually two different goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u389	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u390	It would be very nice to get a letter or something later on about exactly how that will work. I would therefore like to hear how, when the inspection is carried out following a report, the eyebrows go up, towards municipalities, it is made clear: "Watch out. This is where a supplier shows up. Maybe you already have a contract with it, or you want to sign a contract with it. We think it's wrong, so get in there." In what way exactly is that designed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u391	But it's not that difficult again, because it comes back into view through that alert registry. This is also where municipal care comes in. That's very important. Municipalities are obliged to register at the Information Node Care Fraud. For the provider who runs into the lamp at one municipality, gets thrown out and then starts cheerfully in the other municipality, so that can now be done either if Wmo provider is thrown out and then starts in the other municipality as a Wlz provider, all just over the domains and the municipal boundaries, works only one thing: a nationwide covering register for all healthcare laws. That way you can keep out the providers who have run into the lamp, who are not good and who have gone into care with bad intentions. We're not gonna settle that with this bill. We will settle that with the bill Promote cooperation and legitimate concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u392	There's gonna be a separate block of surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u393	Yeah, and a separate block of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u394	Yes. We're moving on to licensing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u395	Exactly. I think this has given me the questions about reporting obligations. Then we've already had a block. That's the way it is. Then there's the licensing requirement. This bill has a licence obligation to replace the licence requirement as it currently applies in the WTZi. That is a great step forward. The block from just now was about the reporting obligation, which did not exist, but now exists. At least if you pass the law, there is that obligation to report. Then all new providers are obliged to report. That'll get them inside the scope of the inspection. But there are a number of providers who have a little more to do. Considering that there is the greatest risk of damage to the body in medical-specialist care, we have just talked about this with Mrs Van den Berg, the Wtza licence is aimed at at at least all medical-specialist care institutions, both the new and the existing ones, at all. This permit is also aimed at private clinics and therefore also at clinics that are not Zvw- or Wlz-funded. That is always a struggle: what can you do with it? Well, that duty applies to all medical-specialist care. One could say: a distinction has been made and the licence requirement will apply to anything where the damage can be greatest for patients, anything where there is invasive care. That's an important start. Two. Because good governance, in good Dutch, is important for the quality of care and of course plays a greater role in institutions of some size, other Zvw and Wlz institutions have opted for a limit of more than ten healthcare providers. A number of questions have, of course, been asked about this. Yeah, I heard that one right. Could it have been 11, 12 or 13? Or could it have been eight? Yes, of course, all of that could have happened. But we have joined the border as it already stands in the Act of Participation. There, too, we look at the moment from which you are a serious institution of some size, so that heavier demands may also apply. That's from ten care workers. In that I very much recognise the discussion you have had among yourselves. You can see that in the amendments. I'm going to do the amendments later. First of all, let me take you out loud in the memories we have had about this. 'Cause ten, is that it? We have made that choice now, because we wanted to be proportionate in the demands. Indeed, we consider the requirement of the internal supervisor to be a very relevant requirement. We'd rather not get out of it. We consider that to be a very relevant requirement. Suppose Mr. Kerstens and Mr. Hijink would work together in the neighbourhood care and then set up Kerstens bv. Do they have to have a supervisory board? I would very much like to be in that, but you will not ask me to do so. Should it, for example, have a supervisory board? I don't know. I find that, frankly, a bit of a heavy demand. If we were to make that demand, it might make sense now. But if you come across that in two years' time on a job visit, you'll say, "Hey? What a crazy thing to do. Why did we ever do that? What a bureaucratic burden!" So not there. So I wouldn't want it to be Generic anyway. But we have great concerns about a number of sub-sectors. Let me mention a sub-sector in my own portfolio: community care. We're really worried about that. Not everything that started new there is a huge asset to humanity. Let's just be honest about that. I say this not only because of the total fragmentation, but also because the quality is sometimes still below par. So wouldn't you like to make a little more demands in front? Maybe you don't necessarily want that in the form of the permit requirement of an internal supervisor. But maybe you want to raise the bar in a number of other ways. So the answer is actually yes. In short, we are now saying from the point of view of quality thought: "Do it like this. The medical-specialist companies, all of them, because of the big risks. And do it with all other care as we look at it under the Participation Act, so from ten healthcare workers." Our initial commitment was: give us the opportunity to work out in greater detail in the law on the integrity of business in which way you would like to broaden the scope even further and further deepen the requirements you would like to make. Those two elements have it in them. Actually, that's what I was gonna do. But I also see Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. In my opinion, this assumes that you do not want to burden everyone with the same requirements, because you cannot fully understand to what extent it is mainly bureaucratic and to what extent you really need it. That leaves room, even if you have passed this law and if you do not yet have the Act of Intent Business, to sometimes increase the group even now. I would like to add that this must be done on the basis of an analysis, and that analysis is not, of course, completed on 1 January. So even if the amendment is adopted, you should not expect that new suppliers or sectors will suddenly be included from 1 January, or that there will be another group, another scope or another deepening of requirements. But at least it gives room, even though you have not yet adopted the Act. Then there are a number of other amendments. Maybe I should just mention the exact songs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u396	Mrs Bergkamp's amendment has now adopted No. 31. And I think this is also about Amendments 21...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u397	Yeah, it's about 21 of the PvdA and about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u398	24.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u399	Yeah, 24 of the SP. And it's about... no, that's different. So, at least these three. So what was it? 38, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u400	21 by Mr Kerstens,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u401	21 by Mr Kerstens...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u402	.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u403	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u404	...and 31 from Madame...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u405	And 31 from Mrs Bergkamp, indeed. Then I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 21. I would advise against this, because a licence requirement for all Wlz or Zvw institutions actually ensures that many more providers are covered by the licence requirement. In fact, I am not even so concerned with the administrative burden. Of course, they are also involved, but Mr Hijink is right to say that they are one-off, in the front. It especially means that if you then register as a new provider, then the inspection must be carried out as if you were a new provider. And the inspection capacity is simply not infinite. So if I did, I fear that I would have to deal with the procedure of the inspection and then it would be a wash-up again, because then they would run much faster for one new application or licence application than for the other application, or it would cost a lot of extra capacity, not only on the inspection side but also on the part of the CIBG, because that would have to assess the licence application. So I'm hesitant about that. I fully understand the intention: it cannot be left alone with those ten; you will need to expand it for a number of groups. I understand that intention very well, but the amendment is so broad and so generic that I would like to discourage it. The same is true of the SP amendment, because according to that amendment, the soloists should still be covered by the permit requirement. This will therefore lead to additional administrative burdens. The SP amendment is the amendment in part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u406	Yes. It's not recommended. And you haven't said it out loud yet, but you went in the direction of a Chamber ruling on the amendment to item No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u407	The amendment in part No. 31 I would indeed like to give the Chamber's opinion, although you should not expect it to be meaningful by 1 January in the sense that an additional sector or group will then be designated. We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u408	I have a question on the amendment to item No. 31. The minister mentioned the example of community nursing. It remains to be seen from further research, but it could be such a sector, hypothetically, to which this applies. Well, here's what I'm wondering. This would therefore mean that all the requirements under this licence would apply to community care. We also know that a lot of district nurses start out as soloists. That is precisely the problem that the Minister also raises. How's that gonna work? How can you ask a soloist, a local nurse, that he has an internal supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u409	I just need to see if there's any possibility of making customization of the demands themselves. Let me tell you what I hope. I understand the inconvenience there is in the Chamber. That is the same discussion that we have had with ourselves. I hope that we will simply adopt that Act of integrity and simply use the precision in that law not only to allow tailor-made work in terms of its scope, who will let you fall under it and who will not? In addition to the requirements, it is necessary to ensure that the provisions of this Directive are I think you said that yourself in an interrupting debate. An internal supervisor just doesn't make any sense when you're alone or just the three of us. So you want to use some measure in those demands. I actually thought that this level of measure in this amendment is possible, but I am honestly not sure. Maybe we should look at the petitioner for that. If that degree of customization is not possible in this, you will hesitate to add a new group, if you know what I mean. I don't want to interfere with the demands, the Wtza permit requirements. I just want to keep it up. This has been the reason for making all suppliers subject to authorisation, in the case of specialist medical companies. Another group of providers, namely Zwv and Wlz providers, only covers 10 employees in order to ensure proportionality. Mrs Bergkamp's amendment creates an opportunity to add a new group. I would either like more customization in that or I would like to decide only if I am prepared to set the bar as high as the demands of the Wtza.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u410	I propose that I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp, because she can explain to what extent this amendment offers that space. It is not just a question of expanding, but also of whether it offers scope to alleviate licensing requirements for smaller providers. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u411	Well, here it comes! Because there will be a separate AMvB, you can regulate the permit requirements in the AMvB if you select a particular risk group. That is how we have interpreted it. But it might be good to be here in second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u412	I think that's wise. If the licensing obligation is regulated in a separate article with clear requirements, there may be a collision between the legal text and an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u413	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u414	We'll come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u415	It's in engineering. In my view, it is Mrs Bergkamp's intention to do so. If she has that intention, I'll take a look at our law lawyers. Then they can look at the amendment in that way. Does it indeed offer the space to put specified custom requirements in an AMvB? If that is the intention, then I think that this amendment should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u416	Good. That's what we're gonna hear. I'll come back to Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u417	This is exactly the concern I expressed in my input. These are the sliding panels. We want to take care of it. The minister says he wants to take care of it in the law of conduct. I understand very well that Mrs Bergkamp says that we have a problem that we want to solve now. But with good intentions, we're not here yet. I mean this with all due respect. Therefore, this should not have any undesirable consequences. I believe the Minister agrees with me. That is the concern of my group. I am only going to vote in favour of such an amendment if it does not turn out to be unintended but undesirable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u418	I'll share that. I would like to put it another way: this is the reason for me not to make a rush job of the Act. We just had a whole debate on the question: can we really not do this faster? That's possible, if we can see what we're doing. It is true that this also applies to the assessment of this amendment and of the other amendments. I'm not against the idea, because I understand the struggle very well. We've had it ourselves. But we must not make accidents or unintentionally impose all kinds of requirements that do not correspond at all to the nature and size of such a club that is working. That is indeed my hesitation. Mrs Bergkamp's intention is to have customisation when adding a new club that does not fall within the scope in terms of basic requirements and also to have the possibility to add customization requirements. If that's the point, I get it and I'm actually okay with it. We need to see if the technique is exactly in line with that intention, but I recognize the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u419	I do have a problem with this, because I think that a law should be clear. If this amendment is passed in the law, the law becomes more unclear. I'd like to explain. As the Minister has done, you can choose that the licence requirement should only apply when there are ten healthcare providers in service. That's a choice you're making. You can either agree with that or you can't. The SP says you have to have a license from one health care provider. But for both, at least there is clarity. After this debate, everyone will know what the law will look like. My objection to this amendment is that a kind of legal hook is being created, which will allow the introduction of all kinds of other groups, whether temporarily or not, which will also be subject to licensing. I don't think that's carefully and clearly. Doesn't the Minister think this should just be regulated by law? People who are following this debate and who are going to have to work with this law will simply have the right to know which group is subject to authorisation and which is not. That should not change again every month or every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u420	I think it is important to clarify the basics as Mr Hijink asks. That is also the way we have shaped the law. I have just explained what considerations we have made: at a medical-specialist company all, with other Zvw and Wlz providers from ten employees. We have also associated ourselves with Mr Jansen's question on what to do in the context of the law on participation. When do we see an institution as a serious institution? Well, then, from ten care workers. This simply has to do with the extent of the risk, the number of patients, clients and so on, and also with the requirement you want to impose on internal supervisors. That's the logic that I think stands for. But I also feel for the way you look at it: with nine or with eight? And take a look at the new providers that we have received in the neighbourhood care: are they all an asset to humanity? Well, no, they're not all an asset to humanity, sometimes even when it comes to quality, which is what it's all about in this case. We have also indicated ourselves that we would like to rethink the licensing obligation in the context of the law on sound management. Should we add more to the scope and depth of the demands of that duty in order to keep the people out of the door that we wouldn't want at the front? I will come back to what requirements that should be, because many questions have been asked about them and amendments have also been tabled on them. Mr Hijink's question is: is Mrs Bergkamp's amendment not unclear? I honestly don't think so. If, in 2022, the Act may not yet be in force, the amendment gives the legislator the possibility to go a step further for a group that demonstrates serious risk both in scope and in requirements than we currently provide for in this law. If it is justified to add a group to the licence requirement, it is at that time for the Minister to propose it to the Chamber. It is then up to the Chamber to agree. It always requires the Minister to submit it to the co-legislator, namely to the Chamber, because I assume it will have to be submitted to the Chamber. With that you use, for a good reason, the law as it is intended for a slightly broader group. I suppose I'll have to convince you of that good reason. Is that unclear? No, because it's only when you're okay with it. It will only enter into force when you agree with it. That is not unclear, but clear, as clear as the legal treatment we are doing at the moment. Is that something you do and then you don't? No, of course you can't. You can't let the field get used to so many different demands. It can't be. We'll meet the base now. This amendment provides an opportunity to broaden the scope as compared to the present situation, the need arises. I think that this is manageable and meets the hesitation we all have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u421	Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u422	Then I would like to ask the Minister whether this could lead to a crazy situation when the law comes and the amendment is through. Let's take care of the neighborhood as an example. Let's say the Minister comes up with a proposal that the district care should be included in the licence requirement. Then a group of district nurses who did not have to apply for a permit from the Minister will hear that they will soon have to apply for a permit. The temporaryity that Bergkamp c.s. In addition, it may also result in us abolishing the licensing requirement in the district care a few years later, after which a new group will not have to apply for a permit. That gives a great deal of uncertainty to those who want to know where they stand after this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u423	I get that. And all these considerations, of course, concern you at the moment that I propose. If I propose that and I have not thought it through, you are not going to get very excited about that proposal. That's one. Two. Take a look at the neighborhood nursing. Yeah, I think that's a sector that's not without risks. But let's also see what we're going to do there in the next few days. We're gonna get started on promoting the bill and that's gonna lead to fewer uncontracted providers. We're working on working as one team in the neighborhood. This is currently being worked out in the purchasing conditions for next year. This already has effect on 1 January 2021. It is my view that this will lead to fewer providers in the district and at least to less burden of fragmentation in the district. We are in the process of improving the quality of the indication in that same district care. Of course, we do this through the professional association, through V&VN, and that also has an impact on quality. We're working on a new funding model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u424	For me, community nursing is an example. I don't need to hear all about community nursing right now. I am concerned about the ambiguity that this amendment may cause. I don't need a paper on community nursing. Let me make an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u425	I was not halfway there, Mr President, so it is good that Mr Hijink is interrupting me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u426	I have heard the arguments of both sides a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u427	With which I would like to point out that it is not a settled case for me. Indeed, I am referring to it as an example. It's not a done deal for me. It could be that all the other things we are doing for that same neighbourhood care, which I now call a risk sector, are already a great deal of good progress, which means that it is not necessary or has insufficient added value. That doesn't mean you're just right. If it is unclear, if it is poorly substantiated or if it is going to lead to varying demands, then again, I probably did not make a very good proposal to you and you will probably disagree with it. I don't think that's a very serious risk. Once again, in the Act, we will be working on broadening the scope and deepening in a way that we will announce and develop further at that time. This was about broadening the scope of the licensing obligation. Then I have an amendment to part No. 27 by Mr Kerstens, who is about always refusing or withdrawing the licence if there is no fore can be consulted or if there is a negative opinion from the Bibob National Bureau. If a club doesn't yet provide care, applies for a permit and can't consult a dog, you'll probably be able to say: we're not going to do that. If there's a club that's already in play and you find out that the driver can't talk to a dog, I'm not sure you're always gonna move in. Imagine it's a cluppy where a few hundred clients are cared for every morning and every night and you'd withdraw the license, because no vog can be consulted, then you're organizing a pretty serious problem for a lot of clients. I hope that the supervisor will look at the possibility of using it with some proportionality. One has the possibility, anyway, but if we make a mandatory provision of that, we offer the supervisor too little discretion to act on things and do what is wise for patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u428	I hear what the Minister says. Then why would you even ask for a vog, an explanation of behavior, if you do not want to automatically take consequences? It is not the case that this standard is requested. Another amendment is asking for that. It means that you think carefully about the cases in which you apply for him. If you apply for it, you are convinced that it is also important that it can be provided, otherwise you would not apply for it. Then it's only logical that you take that as a consequence. Of course, there may be an existing provider with a number of clients who might also be so in other cases, but it doesn't convince me to say: I am asking him, but actually it's not as important as you can't provide him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u429	No, not at all. I like to test this type of general principle, which sounds so incredibly logical, in a practical example. A practical example where I would like to go all the way with you is that a new provider starts with a founder who has a criminal record from here to gunter. He's applying for a license, the CIBG says "I want to see your vog" and it can't be discussed. Well, then I do hope the C.I.B. says, "Don't do this." Start with that snack bar and don't do this for a second. I understand that situation. In that situation, the power will also be used. But this is a mandatory provision in all situations. Let me imagine another situation: a provider who has been working for a while. It is now subject to authorisation, because the licence requirement also applies to existing suppliers. So that provider is going to apply for a licence somewhere in the next two years. That's what we're going to talk about. They'll ask for a dog, but he can't discuss it. Then there's a serious issue going on, because the gentleman or the lady who can't talk to a vog, you'd really like to get out. But if you take away someone's license, he's not allowed to care the next day either. In doing so, we have created a serious problem for quite a lot of people. In that situation, I would think: please give the supervisor some discretion. In my view, that is the commitment of the amendment tabled by Mr Veldman, and I believe in it. A government that no longer gives its executives discretion in the front line, we must avoid that. We have seen this in a number of laws, and we also see it in the whole supplement dossier. The less discretionary we give to the performers who are dealing with people, the more the people who are dealing with their government get the feeling: computer says no. That is so fragile; we must avoid it. I am also sure that, in particular, the groups that always see a certain ombuds roll for themselves would at that time ask Parliamentary questions in the vein: "How could Mrs Jansen have lost her concern?'. Then I have to explain that we have once incorporated a provision into the law that offers the supervisor no other option than to deprive Mrs Jansen of her care in this situation. Would there really have been no other way? Yes, there would have been another possibility, but the law didn't allow it. I think we should avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u430	Good. That is why you are rejecting the amendment to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 27, tabled by Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u431	I understand the Minister's saying, "Give us a little spacious there." After all, you also need to be able to solve a situation. However, I hope that the institution in question will be monitored. It shall not be possible to find any structure in which a vog is controlled without monitoring whether it is going well. I understand the situation with new suppliers is different. New providers can be asked for a vog at the front and then you can immediately attach a value judgment to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u432	Totally true. If such a situation arises and someone is unable to consult, there is, of course, a serious problem. The inspection will have to work on that. Of course, the conversation should be with the gentleman or the lady where the approach is: wouldn't you do something else? This can be done, for example, in the form of an indication by the inspection to the institution. There may also be an indication regarding the designation of another responsible person. A second director may even be appointed alongside the Director. The inspection toolbox is incredibly large, but the extent to which it can be applied will always be determined situationally. When does the inspection use what instrument? The most important thing is simply the importance of the patients. If that interest is served by the withdrawal of the licence, that authorisation will be revoked. If the interest in this particular situation is served by a clue other than getting rid of the gentleman or lady who cannot consult, then it will be dealt with in a different way. But I attach the discretion to the supervisory authority, either the assessor of the licence application, the CIBG, or the supervisor of the quality of care, the IGJ.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u433	Before I give the floor to Mr Hijink, I would like to ask the Minister to give an opinion on the amendment to item No. 26, because Mr Hijink has also tabled an amendment in which it is not possible to present a vog as a compulsory ground for refusal...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u434	Could it be that this is now the amendment to item No. 37 is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u435	No, in my registration it is still the amendment to item No. 26, but maybe I didn't keep up with that. The amendment in part No. So 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u436	This amendment states that in the case of an application for a licence, a cog of the founder or driver is required by default. Again, this is a matter of proportionality. With this bill thousands of institutions become licensing obligations. On the basis of this amendment, they should all apply for a vog, even if they have been employed in healthcare for many years and the vog was checked by the inspection last month. They all have to be able to consult a vog, but whether they really have to consult them is not wise in some sort of standard version. After all, it brings with it a lot of administrative burdens and actually this does not really help to achieve the goal you are pursuing. You want malicious people or people you actually want to keep out, you don't want to be able to give them a permit. Any suspicion or any idea that something may be wrong or every time a report has been received on the basis of which someone thinks "I think there's something going on with a vog, or there's a criminal record," it really helps if that vog requirement is an independent ground for refusal or withdrawal; especially the latter. For the sake of the grounds for withdrawal in particular, I find this demand very interesting. With that threat you can say: either I have to withdraw the license here now, or you're really going to do something else with your life and you're going to use your talent for society in a different way. That possibility alone is very good. That is why I am committed to that vog requirement. But the fact that you are all actively wearing the vog and that it is also being actively tested in all of them leads to a huge implementation task, and that is what this amendment is actually doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u437	So that's what you're telling me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u438	I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u439	In my view, the amendment regulates exactly what the Minister has just said, namely that not being able to produce a statement on behaviour is a grounds for withdrawal of the licence, a ground for withdrawal of the licence. It has just been said about Mr Kerstens' amendment that this may mean that Mrs Jansen will not be given any more concern from one day to the next. I am curious to see where it says that something like this would happen overnight, also because the existing healthcare providers will have two years to apply for a permit. Then I wonder how this could suddenly be a problem. They have two years, and then the Minister comes up with the argument: yes, then Mrs Jansen is taken care of from one day to the next because the provider would not be able to consult. I think that story's getting a little rattled. Why would you have to do that from one day to the next when it stands for two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u440	Let it last two days in practice. But let me break up the questions. I'll start with the last question. If you want to be able to provide care, funded by the Zvw or the Wlz, and if you are required to do so, you will also need a permit. There is an introduction path, but at some point you will need it. If you lose your license or you don't get it, you're not allowed to care. That is the result of the law. Otherwise, that permit is a wash nose. So if the license is refused or revoked because of your vog, you're not supposed to care anymore. Then the inspection can best say that within a week or within a month you have to transfer care or responsibility. It's possible. But no permit is admissible to provide care, because that is what the permit requirement is for. That is why my concern with an mandatory provision is always: let the implementation in that situation be the most sensible choice. I don't think you're doing that by making it mandatory. That's one. The second argument is that the amendment does exactly what the Minister says. I honestly do not think so, but perhaps I misunderstood your amendment. In any event, I would like to read that this amendment calls for the submission of a vog in the case of an application for a licence and for it to be reviewed wherever it can be done. That means that you're going to arrange that for thousands of healthcare providers in that way, anyway, for all the existing ones, all of whom have to go through that gate. This is an additional administrative burden for providers, and that is an additional implementation tax for the CIBG, namely in its control. Then the question is: how much is that going to help keep people out of the door, where you couldn't do that already on the basis of the provision as it stands in the law? That's a trade-off every time. It doesn't have to be wrong, but each time that's the consideration. My point would be that it will not have very much added value. You can already request it at the moment you have suspicions that it is not quite right, and then you can use it as a revocation or refusal basis for the permit. That's already helping, I think. That is actually already in the law, but that provision is also very proportional in its implementation costs. All, everyone, all thousands of founders, owners, directors, etcetera who have vog handed in, and all of them tested, gives a huge bureaucratic burden, a huge implementation burden. For reasons of proportionality, I wouldn't do this. I admit you can think differently about it, but for that reason, I wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u441	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u442	I think the amendment is going to do two things. It will ensure that if new suppliers are unable to consult, there will simply be no permit. That's very clear. Then you'll know what you're up to. The providers who are already active in healthcare will have two years to apply for a permit. Even now, in the law, the vog is part of that application. However, we are now making it a little more stringent by saying that if, during the transitional period, the licence cannot be presented when the licence is applied for, the licence must not be issued. The Minister says you have to keep space there to continue to provide care. I think that's where the difference is. The argument of bureaucracy does not apply, as the Minister's proposal also requires the vog to be presented as part of the licence. You only make a different assessment, but I do not think that our amendment would create any additional administrative burden in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u443	I think there are two differences. About our difference whether you have to make an mandatory provision of it......................................................................................................................................................................................................... We differ on that. That's okay, but I really think: always give the front line in the execution the space to do the most wise thing in the situation, given the purpose. We have all seen the adverse consequences, if we deprive the people in the implementation, in the front line, of the possibility of common sense. Then you get a government that does things to its citizens that you don't want in that situation at all. Then you think: why do you do that, why do you act like this towards people and why do you take those consequences for granted? Yeah, because we sometimes made it impossible for them to make another choice. That's in a lot of laws. You can have a full evening exhibition about that. Two is the way the vog is asked out. Of that, I would say: do it on the basis of signals. Do that on the basis of a reason you have, either as a CIBG or as an IGJ, and ask the CIBG to check it out. Do it based on signals and don't do it generically. If you do it on the basis of signals, you can either refuse or withdraw a permit to take out those people you please do not want in the care. If you do it genericly, then we create a lot of supervisory capacity and a lot of assessment capacity at the CIBG and we impose a lot of execution costs on municipalities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u444	Mr. Kerstens. I would like to ask you a new question, because you also have a second deadline and you already had questions about your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u445	It's a new question. I have once asked a question on the basis of the Minister's reasoning to discourage my amendment and I have a second question on that. Moreover, I do not think that the comparison with the Tax Administration is entirely appropriate. Of course, there was no law forbidding the employees of the Tax Administration to behave properly towards the applicants, but that is not the discussion tonight. The Minister states that he actually thinks that there should be some sort of consideration. He always mentions the case of someone who has been working for a while, who may have 100 people in care and who, while we are asking, cannot make that statement. Then it would be too black and white to say right away that you're withdrawing the license, apart from that you don't have to immediately and that you can do something in the measure. Does the Minister implicitly say that you can say, with a new provider, a truly new provider who does not yet have people in charge and for whom this kind of argument does not apply, and I think it is: "We have found it necessary to apply for that statement. You can't discuss it. I'm sure there's a reason. Those reasons are by definition important for what you want to do; you always look at what you want a vog for. You can't discuss it. In this case, we won't grant you a permit"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u446	Yes. This will, of course, also be the internal work instruction. I therefore wholeheartedly agree with Mr Kerstens. Of course. In this way, the internal work instruction will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u447	In this way, it is not in the law at the moment, at least not in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u448	That's right, but I also think it's hard to define that completely. The possibility is there for a reason. You want to be able to refuse and you want to be able to move in. If that doesn't cause any damage on the patients' side, why wouldn't you? You don't have that opportunity for nothing. The second is that of course it is not about applications where you always consult a vog in all cases. You don't want to. That's a bit of the SP amendment. In that combination I mentioned a proportionality argument and I mentioned the argument of discretionary space on the part of the execution. Suppose there is a case in which there is no consequence for patients because those patients are simply not there because it is a provider who has to start at all and there were signs that there is a criminal record from here to there and that you absolutely do not want it to work in the care sector. Then you could ask me to please refuse that permit, or no, I mean, please request the vog. In that case, the internal work instruction will be natural to refuse that permit. That's possible, isn't it? You can do that without damage, and you don't ask that dog for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u449	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u450	I'm going to see if I can do the other amendments right away. Then we have made the amendments and then I will put the questions to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u451	Yes, perhaps the amendment in part No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u452	I have the amendment to item No. Twenty-seven. I shall now turn to the amendment to item No. 28 toe, on existing permits. Institutions which cannot automatically obtain a licence shall have one year. Well, that makes sense, but I checked with the CIBG for a second. I asked them if they could do that within one year, and they just said, no, we really can't do that. All existing providers with more than ten must pass through the same car wash. We have here, unlike the reporting obligation for new providers, also for the existing providers simply applied for the licence, so everyone has to go through the car wash. It is simply not possible to complete all this in one year's time. That is why I must discourage this amendment. Unfortunately, I add.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u453	The amendment in part No. 28 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u454	Then there is the front page for the AMvB, which is the amendment to item No. 35 of the PvdA service provider where categories of healthcare providers may be excluded from the authorisation requirement. My advice here is actually kind of the same as the advice I just gave. I can promise you that I will do as you ask. I can promise to send you the work of the AMvB. I don't do that through a formal front, but just at the same time as the internet consultation. Then I can do it, but otherwise I won't make it to January 1, 2021. That would slow the law down, and I'd rather not. So no formal veil, but I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u455	So the amendment in part No. 35 is not recommended. Mr Kerstens has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u456	I have a question for clarification. I understand the Minister. We are all in favour of speeding up. His argument is that he can make more pace if he does it simultaneously. Then how does the Minister see the situation that comes out of that consultation all kinds of bright ideas that he himself hasn't come up with yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u457	This is entirely theoretical, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u458	Yes. Is the Chamber going to get some kind of rematch or is it going to go to the Chamber after that? It could, of course, be that the Minister should present something to the Chamber at the same time and put it for consultation, and that this consultation shows that things have to be different. Then how does the Minister deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u459	Then you can have entire discussions on Article 68 of the Constitution. I have an active duty of information towards the Chamber and you should always be able to intervene in the direction of the Cabinet on the basis of the information you have, at that time considering what the effects might be in terms of delay or whatever. Suppose the theoretical case that we have created an AMvB and that its content is not only genius, that there could be a single good idea to add to it and that it is not so much thought up in the Chamber as it is completely theoretical but in the field. Imagine that case. Then I will have to inform her that I still have one good idea out of the field after the note from the Chamber of "we like it so much." On that basis, you must again assess whether you want to talk about it. Then you will have another opportunity of intervention in the direction of the cabinet. So let's not get too complicated about it. I must keep you informed, and you must always have the ability to correct, correct, correct, check and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u460	My intention, of course, is not to make it too complicated, and I assume that it is not the Minister's intention to propose it too simply. We take that consultation of the field very seriously, just as the minister does, for example, when it comes to the bill of integrity in the management of healthcare providers. In fact, because we take it so seriously, and because the Minister takes it so seriously, that consultation is also taking place. This means that it is not a theoretical possibility that good ideas come out of that. That's what we've seen in this bill. It has been adapted on a number of points based on comments from the field. Of course, we can always ask or harass the Minister if we want to talk to him about something, but that is something other than simply agreeing to do a suspension procedure here or, if it has to be done at the same time, to do so in the case, whether or not unexpectedly, that there will still be changes. Otherwise, we would never have to table amendments for pending procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u461	In a normal situation. Look, it's January 2020 now and you want the law to come into effect in January 2021. Now it happens more often that you deal with a law about a year in advance, but if I take a look at what's next in the elaboration of AMvBs, in the treatment in the First Chamber, in simultaneously working on the bill of integrity, the bill of business, the bill of law WNT, the bill of law... Well, I've just mentioned all those legislative proposals. There's so much work to be done. If I'm just trying to do that in terms of planning, I'd like to make an agreement with you that you should obviously have the opportunity to find something of it before it comes into force, but I'm also going to ask you to do it in a practical way in parallel with the Internet consultation so that there's no delay. But of course we must also make the agreement that if something is changed via the Internet consultation and the Chamber has not had it in front of the glasses in that way, I will always inform you about it so that you can intervene again in my direction. It should always be possible. At that moment you will also weigh as a Chamber: I can now break in because I am going to make a 9 a 10 of this AMvB. You can also think: if I do that, I will slow down, so perhaps I should not let the better not be the enemy of good. Look, at that moment, of course, you are also making the administrative balance that I have to make. Mr. Chairman. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 38. That's an amendment from the SP. It states that the authorisation for accession may be refused if it is likely that the healthcare provider will violate the WNT. The violation of the WNT is also an additional grounds for withdrawal. The amendment extends the scope of the WNT to all institutions that have a Wtza licence. There will really be a separate law for the WNT, because the WNT is now linked to the WTZi authorisation. We have seen an example of an institution called "De Carmel" which, in my opinion, gave back its WTZ authorisation. She didn't want any more WTI authorization. Through that construction, she was able to bypass the WNT. That's one. Two is that you see a lot of subcontractors. There are real subcontractors being set up to bypass the WNT. We just know that. There are many examples of this. Of course you shouldn't. So what WNT needs to do is to have a direct effect in the direction of institutions rather than through the authorisation, and to have a direct effect on subcontractors, so that subcontractors' structures no longer dodge the WNT. That's what we're gonna do. This amendment extends the scope of the WNT so that it applies to all Wtza licensing institutions, including Mrs Van den Berg's botox clinics. Those are not publicly funded institutions. These are just private institutions that do not involve public funding. So you would stretch the WNT to the private domain. That goes far beyond the scope of the WNT. The way we work it out must also be consistent with the logic of the WNT. And apart from sizes, for example, which you don't want to treat in that way, because then medical specialists will still be covered by the WNT via the back door. You may not think that is a very big point, but I can imagine that others think that is a big point. In short, it is not so much that I do not share the background to this amendment. I'll share that. So that's what we're going to file the law for, as we indicated. It is true that with this design, in this way, you actually increase the scope of the WNT. We don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u462	And so the judgment is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u463	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u464	Amendment No 38 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u465	Yes. Then I think I have had the amendments in this block. I do have a number of questions, although I have already dealt with them in the context of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u466	I see enthusiastic nodding, so I think you can continue with the block of surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u467	Yeah? Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u468	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u469	Well, let's go. Let's get the records in order. Block 4: surveillance. In fact, this consists of two parts: the supervision of the WMO and the supervision of the transfer of tasks. I'm gonna start with the Wmo's surveillance. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Some of those questions came down to: why don't we just put the Wmo underneath this? The reason not to include the Wmo here is actually to do with the purpose of the law. In fact, you want to show suppliers at the inspection and you want to understand the requirements they have to meet. In the supervision of the Wmo providers there is indeed room for improvement, to express it euphemistically, but you do not have to bring them into the picture of the inspection, because the IGJ has no role in the supervision of the Wmo. So the Wtza and the Wmo don't have to have anything to do with each other. This is different from the Youth Act, where there is also a municipal domain. The following has been considered in the formation of the Youth Act here in the Chamber. The nature of the care provided under the Youth Act is sometimes so specialised that you need the specialism and experience of the IGJ to monitor it properly. That was the consideration at the time, which I understand. At that time, too, there were a lot of municipalities that said: you should also decentralise supervision, because if we are responsible as municipalities, supervision must also be ours. But knowing what it's all about, a lot of congregations were pretty quick to heal from it, and that's how it happened when it happened. I believe that the Chamber and my predecessor made a logical choice at the time. For the Wmo, things started differently. The Wmo started with domestic care. That was all very light. It didn't make any sense to keep the IGJ involved in that household care. Actually, it was only in 2015 that heavier forms of care were added to the Wmo, namely protected living. And where's the most concern now? It's all around protected living. So I understand your hesitation very well in the sense of: wouldn't the IGJ also have a clean task to perform there? But at the time a very conscious and justified choice was made in the two decentralisations. Now that the Wmo falls within the scope of the Wtza would actually be very strange in view of the purpose of the law, namely to come within the scope of the Health and Youth Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u470	Would the Minister be prepared to consider whether and to what extent the Wkkgz could, at least in part, fall within the scope of the Wkkgz? 'Cause that'll solve that problem. The inspection may not need to have the full role that it has in other areas, but if you were to make a hook that would partially cover the Wmo, then you were right to arrange for the notification obligation and the Wtza to apply, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u471	No, that would really be a fremdkörper. That goes for the Youth Act too, doesn't it? The youth is not part of the Wkkgz. We have added the youth law providers to the Wtza but not to the Wkkgz. That has been a conscious choice. You should probably get back to the target. The aim of the Healthcare Provider Authorisation Act is that new providers come into the scope of the inspection so that it will be supervised. In this case, the inspection never, whatsoever, has to supervise the Wmo providers, because that is the municipal domain. So, no, that would be a really crazy figure. But what's right is... I would like to mention the example that Mr Hijink has mentioned a number of times and which I have also come across a lot. There are providers working in the Wmo care and sometimes also in the Wlz, sometimes in one municipality and then in the other municipality, who provide screw-ups: the revolving door screw-ups. How do you keep it out? That's what the other bill is for, so without the Wtza and without the Wkkgz. This is about improving cooperation for legitimate concern. The IKZ, the Information Node Care Fraud, gets a legal basis in that. All municipalities are obliged to be connected to them. The third is that there will be a warning register. If there are signals about a provider, all municipalities can be alerted via that alert register in order not to enter into a new contract with such a provider. That takes a part, but not everything, away from the concern. Can those kind of revolving door buggers just keep working in the municipal domain? No, we're going to scorch that, but without a whole system change of supervision. In addition, there are several calls, among others from Mr Kerstens, but also from you, from the CDA, from the VVD and from D66, to strengthen municipal supervision of the Wmo, because it is not going well enough. Especially in the case of sheltered living, things aren't going well enough. We do so in many ways. I had to write a letter about that, too. I think that letter will soon, at least for the AO Care Fraud, be with you in the Chamber. I believe that we should indeed strengthen this monitoring on a number of points, but not by transferring that task to the inspection. Moreover, it concerns 350 municipalities, all of which have at least 1 fte to devote to that supervision. When it goes to the inspection, of course there is never 350 fte available for the municipal domain, so supervision can never get more intensive when it goes to the inspection. It is true that, of course, the inspection has a lot of experience with how to supervise. So what I really want is to know how we can involve the expertise of the inspection in monitoring protected living. We're definitely gonna do that. In addition, we will also work with the knowledge centre. I am going to explain in detail what we are all doing to strengthen WMO surveillance. But for the way in which you wish to arrange it, either via the Wkkgz or by making it part of the Wtza, I honestly do not feel anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u472	Finalizing Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u473	We've had this discussion before. The Minister himself has stated that this is a good thing, and I think it is right that the inspection should take place this year with the municipalities in the supervision of the assisted living. The inspection therefore has a role to play already. It may not be a formal role, but that is a political consideration. That's a political choice you can make. The Minister chooses to give the inspection only a sort of advisory role now, to look into the supervision of the municipalities. I would like to go one step further and give the inspection a formal role in supervision, for example, as I said, in cooperation with the GGD as a local supervisor. Of course, you can come up with a different structure for that. Does the Minister agree with the SP that this is ultimately a matter of political preference? Do you choose to fill in and organize it nationally or do you choose to leave it entirely to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u474	I think it's a matter of political choice. Do you want the IGJ to interfere with the municipal domain when it comes to supervision? There's a very good reason for that. That is why I share that political choice. I do this and all these other things by saying to the inspection and to the municipalities: 'Work together on the subject of protected living and go together to visit those institutions for protected living. Learn from the way the IGJ visits this type of institution, makes risk weights, makes observations and develops the review framework. Learn from that, because the IGJ just has a lot of experience with that." Protected living is also often about psychiatric patients and they are of course already within the scope of supervision of the inspection. So that's the political choice. Then it is more a matter of design whether you want to do so by making it part of the Wkkgz or by transferring the entire Wmo control or part of the Wmo control to the inspection. I do not agree that this design would be a sensible move. Not in the Wtza, because that doesn't match the goal at all. The goal is to get an image of the IGJ, but the IGJ has no role in the municipal domain. But also not in the form of a transfer of supervision, because that would really be a loss of supervisory capacity on that protected residence. Where a great deal of FTE is now available in all these municipalities for this monitoring, this can never be the capacity that the inspection will free up for this. Then you probably have a higher quality of inspection, but much less capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u475	All right, the arguments repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u476	But I actually think they're getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u477	But they also repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u478	I am pleased that the Minister states that he also believes that supervision should be improved from the municipality. We have had several debates on this. But I do not think that it is only a matter of legitimate or unlawful care that is provided, but also of the quality of care. I therefore hope that in the letter on WMO supervision the Minister will not only look at the illegality but also at the fact that a number of municipalities have not even organised supervision and that not all supervision is independent. So, in his letter, does the Minister also want to pay explicit attention to how he intends to solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u479	I'd love to. All those aspects touch... A number of times in the debate you have ordered this letter, so it must be a thorough letter in which I will work out all aspects of municipal supervision, cooperation with the IGJ and everything that has potential and need in it. I will do that for the AO Care Fraud so that we can discuss it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u480	I just wanted to get back to the point Mr Hijink brought in. The Council of State says about this law: it should be about quality. That's what the Minister starts with. The core objective of this law is to improve quality. If you assume that quality, you start from the transactions, from the actions, not from the systems. We've organized quite a complicated system. Now I hear the Minister in his reply again based on these systems: the Wmo, separate law, decentralised. This while we know that part of the transactions, whether they are covered by the Wmo or elsewhere, are actually in the nature of this law. In my view, that is what the Council of State says: you should take much more account of these transactions. It is about the quality of care that we want to improve. So it's kind of weird that we're making the complicated system lead again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u481	If you use the word "operations," I cannot agree with that. Because, of course, we don't have two laws for the same type of care. That's not true. The district nursing in the Zvw is really something else than the accompaniment from the Wmo. You can have a discussion about whether to take that apart, but that's just the way it is. But there is not for the same type of care a double funding under two laws. So that's never overlapping. You can only say that's at the same people's house. That's right, because you can get guidance from the Wmo and then neighborhood nursing from the Zvw. The other point is that if you refer to the Council of State, I remember the opinion of the Council of State, in particular that rather firm opinion on the last letter of amendment. In it, the Council of State says: "Aren't you going too far? Have you explained enough why you want the youth providers and the subcontractors?" So the Council of State certainly wouldn't want to go any further in the supervision. He thinks that we are already going a long way with the youth providers and the subcontractors. There's no discussion in the Chamber about this, which I suspected was a little bit of "" but that was the discussion with the Council of State. That is why the Council of State had a rather firm opinion in our direction. He considered that it was not sufficiently proven, insufficient evidence that we wanted to take this step forward, and said: you are going a long way with that. That is true, but that is what we wanted to do in order to broaden the scope of the Wtza, including to youth providers and subcontractors. Back to supervision: if you think from the client, then I can imagine your reasoning. Actually, it's about the nature of the care. I also think that it is a bit wringing around that protected living, because previously it was protected living with the AWBZ. The clients inside are protected by his psychiatric clients, and the nature is that you live at the location of the institution. So you can say that you are completely at the mercy of the quality of care of the institution and are often unable to find anything about it yourself. This means that the protection of living may indeed be subject to higher requirements for supervision. So you probably wouldn't argue that we should have domestic care with the IGJ. You'll believe that the congregations look after that well. But your care is in protected living. This is not just the case with you; it is the case with several groups. I understand that, and I share that, by the way. I also share what Mrs Bergkamp points out, namely that the white spots in that municipal monitoring should be closed. Because that is not possible; it is serious concern for serious patients. The nature of the care is indeed similar to the nature of the care provided under the Health Insurance Act. But do you do that by transferring the supervisory task? I say no, don't. Or do you do that by tying the IGJ with all its expertise on those municipalities and GGDs that are in charge of that supervision? That's what I'm saying: yes, do it. That helps. The IGJ has a huge wealth of experience. The municipalities can use a slightly steeper learning curve at that point. Municipalities want that very much. They have the Knowledge Center Enforcement, which is working on it. I am going to explain to you what we are doing on that point. That's a lot, and that's with the same reasoning you're giving now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u482	Rounding off, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u483	I have never said that the transactions are the same in different laws. Here's what I'm gonna say. The Council of State has indeed said that the nature and gravity of the care...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u484	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u485	... for example, in the part of the Wmo and the Wlz.......................................................................................................... It's still incomplete. That's what the Council of State says. Those are the panels again. We are doing some of it now, but we do have a duty to make sure that what we are going to do is in its nature very well aligned with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u486	Agreed. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I also think that if Mrs Ellemeet and I were allowed to start a new country, we would all sign up more clearly, not a new healthcare provider. I think so. But we are dealing with existing legislation and legislative frameworks: the Wlz, the Wvw, the Wmo. We've got surgery in there. Then you must always see what purpose you serve. The aim we serve here is to improve the quality and intensity of monitoring the quality of care. The question is what will help us best. I think it helps to bind the IGJ to the municipalities and the GGDs in the sheltered living together and that it helps to put the Knowledge Centre Enforcement on top of that from the municipalities. I think that is very helpful to achieve the steepest possible learning curve in municipal supervision. That's why I'm making this choice. All other choices would mean a more fundamental system intervention, of which I wonder whether the purpose is better served rather and better. That's why I don't make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u487	Good. I think this has really changed. I would like to ask the Minister to give an opinion on the amendments on the monitoring issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u488	I do not think I have so many amendments on monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u489	I think there are two of them that touch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u490	Not Wmo surveillance, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u491	No, but it's about surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u492	No, okay. But I've had the Wmo surveillance now. I shall now move on to the transfer of tasks. Your request will then be to make the amendments first. Let's see. I have one amendment to that. That is GroenLinks' amendment. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u493	Let's see. I see an amendment by Mrs Dik-Faber on strengthening internal supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u494	That is an amendment which Mr Bruins will be discussing shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u495	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u496	Then I have the amendment to item No. 16. That is the amendment tabled by GroenLinks, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u497	This is about monitoring financial reporting in youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u498	Yes. I am glad that we have just had that introductory debate; that saves a lot of system explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u499	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u500	With this legislative proposal, we're actually concentrating supervision on the business side with one supervisor. Because that is the core expertise of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, we said: let's park that whole operating condition at the NZa. That's good, I guess. Then everyone just does what they're good at. In this case GroenLinks has thought: but then we will do the same for the youth, because that makes sense. I can see where that logic comes from. Then you would indeed pool all the financial expertise at the NZa. But from the point of view of how the youth system operates, that is quite illogical. In order to ensure proper supervision as a supervisor, you must also meet those institutions and providers. The NZa currently has a zero relationship with youth aid providers, except if they happen to be also a Zvw or Wlz provider. Otherwise, she has a zero relationship with those providers. The NZa also has a zero relationship with the purchasing party for these providers, namely the municipalities. So there is no relationship at all for a supervisor you would appoint with this amendment. There is also no knowledge about this sector present at the NZa Région at the IGJ, but not at the NZa. That is why we are actually doing the whole transfer, except for youth aid providers. Imagine if we didn't have this debate right now, but in five, six, seven years' time. Then I think we would do what Mrs Ellemeet says, because in the end I find a lot of differences between the sectors rather inexplicable. Why is youth aid treated so differently from adult ggz? It concerns the same type of care, where the same type of complexity may be involved. But with one, we have a Healthcare Authority that oversees the duty of care, designs tariff structures and so on. Those are all authority tasks. On the youth side, we don't have that at all. Yes, we have that very early; we have a Youth Authority, with which we have agreed: you have to develop your tasks now it's going too far to work it all out because in the youth domain we just really need an authority role that is an referee when it comes to tariffs, which could point to the duty of care, etc. I have also had many debates on this with Mrs Westerveld. So we need an authority role. But that's completely new and it needs to be built up. If we put that on the NZa's board for a moment, it really can't. They have zero possibilities of intervention towards municipalities, no knowledge of the sector as such and no contact with these providers either. So it would really be a fremdkörper for the NZa. Not for the IGJ. The only thing that's going on there is that they have to keep that financial expertise for the youth. But it's a smaller step for the IGJ than it would be for the NZa. That is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u501	I understand the problem the Minister is sketching. Of course, there's another side to it. That is why I made this proposal. There is a lot of financial expertise at the Healthcare Authority. My point is this. You also want the youth sector to be monitored with the same expertise for everything related to finance. So it's a weighting in the end. What weighs heavier? Does it outweigh the fact that the Healthcare Authority does not yet have a further relationship with the youth sector, or does it make it more important for the youth sector too that financial expertise is extremely important? In the end, it is a question of ensuring that, in the long term, there is professional supervision, including in the area of finance, for the youth sector. That is the intention of this amendment. The minister says you're early, actually. I am going to think about whether this might not be better included in a motion in which I say: I want to go here, so I think it is important that this financial expertise, of which we say in all the other areas that we are going to organise it smarter, also applies to the youth sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u502	I get it. Two answers. I indicated in the November letter, on the adjustment of the youth system, you know, the letter received with such enthusiasm, that that authority should indeed be developed. I also indicated that in the spring, in March, I came up with a first development of what I believe will be the steps that will have to be taken in the coming years, namely to give the Youth Authority more tasks and powers in the short term under the responsibility of the Department's Youth Directorate, and then finally to be able to take that step to the NZa. That is my future perspective, and I promised in the Chamber that I would work out that role of authority. Two. You are quite right that the inspection, even if it is the task for young people, should be able to make use of the knowledge of the NZa. Speaking of steep learning curves: especially for the case of Alliade, a lot of knowledge had to be flown from outside, including from De Nederlandsche Bank, from forensic accountants, but also from the NZa. So that really has become a team together. From there, I think the team, the task force, Integrity Management is called the IGJ Department. That's where they work with the NZa. So that knowledge is being used anyway. Indeed, let us please use each other's expertise. Youth care providers also deserve this type of supervision, of course. Where the IGJ now has that type of oversight, they use the NZa. What we have to work out is a fully-fledged role of authority, including within the youth domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u503	Good. We hear in the second term whether Mrs Ellemeet is withdrawing her amendment and tabling a motion. Mrs Bergkamp has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u504	I object to us moving in the direction of discussing the system now. Once again, I feel that this fits well with the regionalists, so to speak, in terms of regionalisation. So I would like to be careful to talk about vision and contour note now in this debate, because then, frankly, we can also talk about the Wmo, which we were just talking about. The Minister rightly says, I think: let us not do that; that really is a system change. So I think the Minister is too involved. We really need to be careful not to have the debate on the contour note now in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u505	No. Let me get this straight. This wasn't about the contour note. This was about the announcement by the cabinet, by Mr Dekker and by me, to adjust the youth system in a number of ways. That was already a more concrete proposal than the one we announced on the contour note. It doesn't have much to do with the contour note either. It is about the youth system, which is really not working properly on a number of points. But that's too far for now. This concerns in particular the complex forms of care. One of the things that we have mentioned in it is that it is necessary to develop the role of authority, which is so fine in the Zvw and the Wlz and which is so badly missed in the Youth Act. We started that a long time ago, because we already have a Youth Authority in VWS, under the responsibility of the Director of Youth. It needs to be further developed. From those steps, which we are already taking and which have already been discussed with the Chamber, I would like to explain that we are actually thinking about this in the same way. But on this amendment, I say: no, please do not do so now, because that seems to me unwise because the youth sector is a fremdkörper for the NZa and for the IGJ, so to speak. Mrs Ellemeet added: make sure that the IGJ has the same good expertise as the NZa has. I therefore advise against the amendment. On the contrary, I do not want to take steps that are not appropriate in this case. But the future perspective outlined by Mrs Ellemeet had also been outlined by the cabinet in previous letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u506	I also remember that debate. Municipalities weren't happy about that. There was also a lot of criticism from the Chamber in that debate. So I'm glad... we didn't talk about the contour note, but we did talk about changes in the youth system. I say to the Minister: let us not use this debate now to repeat the other debate, which I think was quite difficult. There's some kind of encouragement to come up with a motion. I'd say don't go there. There are other debates for that. And there has also been a lot of criticism of those plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u507	I wouldn't dare encourage MPs to come forward with a motion! But to put my enthusiasm for Mrs Ellemeet's idea of the future, I also think it is a bit uncomfortable, because that is just in line with what the cabinet itself wrote in previous letters. Not only was there enthusiasm about this in the Chamber, but also not in the congregations, but it happened again on this part. On the contrary, the municipalities are very enthusiastic about developing this role of authority. I am simply going to outline to you in March, as I promised you, the state of mind. Then it is up to you to either get very excited about it and still get convinced, or to disagree with it very much. Of course, we can do all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u508	Can you also comment on the amendment to item No. 40? That's about a director not being a supervisor and vice versa. That amendment belongs to Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u509	I don't have that in this block, Mr. Chairman. I'll find it in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u510	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u511	Then I guess, Mr. Chairman, I've handled most of the surveillance questions. I would like to return to the question of capacity, which has been raised by a number of parties. In the normal course of things, the supervisors make the order to the core department on the basis of the legal orders they have: if you want this from us, this means implementation implications. Then there's always a conversation about the extent to which that can fit in. Of course, that has happened now. Is the capacity of monitoring order, asked the ChristianUnion. The answer is: yes, actually yes, except if Mrs van den Berg's amendment is adopted, because then we will have to add something to that. In any case, we still need to have a very precise conversation with the inspection, the CIBG and the NZa about how we fit this in. But for the time being, we are not very concerned about the applicability of all of this, unless a number of other amendments are adopted, which means that we have to run all the care institutions through the car wash. It's gonna be a lot of paperwork. I'll raise my finger by then, too. Actually, I kind of did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u512	Maybe the minister's going to deal with it in another block, but I hear him saying that the surveillance block is now complete. Will the Minister respond to the CDA's proposal to maintain the inspection on the basis of a governance code?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u513	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u514	You'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u515	It's somewhere in the pile. Yes. Then there's a question from D66. Mrs Bergkamp calls the term "not insurmountable." Yeah, look, after a marriage proposal, if you get the reaction "not insurmountable," that's a little cool; I agree with you. We have seen this reaction as: oh, well, then the inspection thinks it is feasible. However, it is indeed an additional task, and that is why it is logical that the inspection should be critical of it. I also want performers to be critical. So that makes sense. But the IGJ agreed with the objective of bringing subcontractors under the reporting obligation. The NZa agrees with the importance of transparent and controlled management of healthcare institutions achieved by extending the annual liability obligation to existing subcontractors. However, the NZa concludes that feasibility and enforcement depend heavily on the precise implementation of the scope of the annual accounting obligation. Of course, that makes sense. I think that you should always engage in the conversation with implementing organisations in this way. What can be achieved? What's doable? What additional capacity is needed for this? And also: how do you pull away from other things that you care about by making this choice? That was also the reason for the way in which I have just assessed the amendments. Then, Chairman, the CDA's request for fines. Why isn't it all a little bit rougher? I have to make a few references, because in general I agree with Mrs van den Berg that fines should have an effect. And in order for fines to have effect, they have to hurt a little. If they don't really hurt, they don't have any effect. But fines must also be proportionate. The maximum fine for reporting has been increased from the third category to the fourth category, as referred to in Article 23, fourth paragraph of the Criminal Code. That's $20,750 now. That's quite a fine. And the penalty limit for the licensing obligation has been increased from the fourth to the fifth category as referred to in Article 23, fourth paragraph of the Criminal Code. At present that is €83,000. Those are rather firm amounts, but it must be said that the maximum fine must be proportionate to the offence. So if you were to make that the sixth category, that would be $830,000. It's hard to imagine that you're going to impose that kind of fines, because the pain of that just means bankruptcy. You have to consider whether you think that's proportionate anymore, and my answer to that is no. I think we have made the right choice here and found the right balance. Could you arrange a heavier regime for non-members of the NVZ and the NVZD? Have you already counted the number of abbreviations, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u516	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u517	We're in a lot of red about that. It is about the Dutch associations for supervisors, to sum it up. If you are referring to extra rules for non-members with a heavy regime, I am not in favour of them, because that leads to a curious legal imbalance. In practice, this would mean that associations would actually become a kind of administrative body which, through their admission policy, would be able to decide who is to be covered by which legal regime and how it is to be exercised. That's way beyond their role, I think. However, I can imagine a more explicit role of the supervisor, including in terms of the scope of the work of the associations of supervisors. As a result of your earlier suggestion, I will shortly discuss how we could strengthen the role of the two Dutch associations of supervisors. That's what I'm talking to them about. Then I think I'm over the questions of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u518	Then we'll go to the fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u519	Then we go to fraud, exactly. The number of questions there is not that big. Knowing that there will soon be an AO Care Fraud, I may have to keep it very limited. The PvdA asks if the Minister is prepared to take additional measures to deal with healthcare cowboys in the Wmo. The answer is yes. I am very willing to do so in a number of ways. The Wmo will be part of the bill promoting legitimate concern. Municipalities become mandatory part of the Information Node Care Fraud. That's one. There will be a warning register that includes municipal care. I think that's very important. In addition, I have just indicated to you how I intend to bind the inspection on the municipal domain when it comes to protected living. Quite a lot of the healthcare cowboys you usually refer to are in that domain. That's two. Three is on the side of pgb surveillance. If you check more closely at the front who you consider fit for a pgb and the framework of tasks, knowledge and skills, which we are talking about, also gives a solid role on the front, that helps very much to counter care cowboys. Those are all measures. I can mention other measures, but what I had to do was write a letter about how I can strengthen WMO surveillance. That was, among other things, your order. In that letter I go into it even more extensively, but the answer is simply yes. The SGP asked if this law is effective. You're gonna use this to grab fraudsters? Not only did the SGP ask for this, but also a number of other groups asked for it. Let me go back to the purpose of the law and the preamble that you yourself recited. This law is an important step in strengthening the dike. It is also a big step towards the WTZi and what is not there, is not in the picture and is not stopped at all. But it's not really a fraud bill. A number of legislative proposals are coming up which have a much stronger fraud-related objective, at least to combat fraud. At first, this is really a quality law. The CDA asks whether all healthcare providers are obliged to report fraud, incompetence and lack of competence to the alert registry. We have actually talked about two types of alert registers. They both get a legal basis. I was just telling Mr Hijink about the one alert register. That alert register is about settings that you should want to get rid of or that you should never want to give a new authorisation again. That is the alert register that becomes part of the Law promoting legitimate care. Then there is another warning register that is actually being designed in the professional domain. That is the warning register of care and well-being that ensures that employees who have been dismissed, for example, for reasons such as not being able to stay away from the wallet of the elderly or such unlawful acts, are never accepted by another institution. In fact, I am going to make it compulsory for all the institutions to become members. That was a question from Mrs Agema. By the way, the technique of that bill is also complicated, again for those same legal lawyers, but it has to be. So there will be two alert registers. Healthcare insurers should not buy care from providers with a criminal record: please respond from the minister. Healthcare insurers are already obliged to check the integrity of healthcare providers on the basis of the Financial Supervision Act and the Insurance & Crime Protocol before entering into or extending a relationship with them. Healthcare insurers have the possibility and role of refusing, modifying or stopping a contract in case of suspected fraud and malpractice. Municipalities can shape this in the same way, even now, but there is also a need for dyke reinforcement. I have just mentioned a number of legislative pathways in which we will do so. That was the block of fraud again, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u520	Can you therefore give an opinion on the amendment to item No. 22 by Mr Veldman? I think that affects fraud. It concerns unlawful declaration as grounds for refusal and withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u521	I'm gonna see which block I hid that amendment in, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u522	The amendment in part No. 22 concerns the first legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u523	We'll find it by ourselves. That's one thing for sure. That's how we can do it, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u524	Mr Veldman now wants a judgment, I believe. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u525	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I had asked some questions about how the minister looks at uncontracted healthcare providers. Does he want to take that under the heading of fraud or the heading other than? I don't care if he responds to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u526	If I do it under the heading of fraud, Mrs Bergkamp jumps up and I get a hugely complicated interruption, I think. Do you want me to come back to it in a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u527	Yeah, on others. Then we'll continue to make a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u528	Yeah, I'm gonna go on profit first. A number of questions have been asked about profit. In the letter of 9 July last year, I believe it was, we discussed in detail how we deal with profit. The first is that at that time there was still a law in the First Chamber to allow an extension of income distribution for inpatient care. I have decided with Mr Bruins that it is not logical to do so now. We've looked into that in detail. You know those tests, too. If I sum it up very briefly, the necessity is not very great. There is no great need for additional capital, because other lenders can be contacted and it is not necessarily necessary to create additional opportunities with risk capital. That's one thing. The second is that the institutions you are most concerned about, for example with risks to quality, could possibly attach importance to them. Then you better not do it. A third is that we have considered that, if you wish, the quality should be much more transparent to measure. Profit benefit is of course not without risk. Otherwise, you get the argument that profit distribution is at the expense of quality. Let's say you're left with over 10% on the rates you agreed on. Then the rates are far too large, or you're undermining the quality of care to meet your dividend obligation. In short, there is a risk of a perverting effect on quality. Since you should not want to, we have said: there is no reason for broadening now, just work on transparency in terms of quality. You have had a lot of debates on this with Mr Bruins. That's the intern side. Then the extramural care. There are now opportunities for profit. On the basis of the same investigations, the question is whether there is any reason to eliminate that possibility. That concerns the Keijzer motion that you asked for. Is there any reason to fully join the inpatient care? Well, not in a lot of sectors, actually. This research distinguishes all kinds of sectors. In most sectors where the possibility of dividend payments exists, it is actually not a problem at all. Sometimes it is also just part of the way people have organised the business, a form of partnership or whatever. Then you are all co-owner of the partnership and then you are paid as owner. You can call that a form of profit-sharing or profit-sharing. Do you have to want to make all that impossible? That is a fairly far-reaching effect. We didn't choose that. What did we see? Well, exactly what you saw. In all of Pointer's reports, for example, we have seen profit distributions of more than 10%. That doesn't make any sense. That is not socially responsible and that is undermining quality. There's no other way. We want to get rid of that, and so we have said: we are going to include a standard of socially responsible profit in that law. That's the state of mind we reported in the letter of July 9th. That's how we want to deal with profit. Let me add one more thing. For the new forms of living and care we have talked about more often, we need wind in the sails to stomp new forms of living and caring out of the ground as soon as possible. Capital needs are really not the only obstacle, really not. There are many more obstructive factors. Is there any ground? Isn't the land price too high? Are there enough planners to get to work? Are the municipalities on top of this enough? Are the corporations on top of it enough? There are a lot of obstructive factors. One of the driving factors could be investors who say "we believe in it." There is a great deal to be done, and all you have to do is look at demographic trends. If you are a pension fund and you invest in it, however, you do want a return on your pension fund and there is only one way to do that. In formal terms, the distribution of profits is, but in fact, the return on an invested euro. It's actually dividend payments. That must be possible, otherwise you cannot make that type of investment possible. I am not always opposed to this, because it also makes beautiful developments possible. I want to take a nuanced look at that. In short, are we going to make it possible more in-patient care? The answer to that is no. Are we going to make it impossible in the outpatient care? The answer is no. Are we going to limit it in the outpatient care? The answer is yes, and we are going to do so in the best and most precise way possible. I will come back to that in the law on sound management. That is one of those difficult points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u529	This is again one of those examples that I have become quite frustrated about in recent weeks in the run-up to this debate, because I could already predict that all the wonderful proposals we make as SP would be referred to new legislation, subsequent legislation and the law that the minister just mentioned. I mentioned later that there is now EUR 1.2 billion per year of repayable profits available. I want to know from the Minister how he looks at that. I find it unimaginable that we are talking about rising healthcare costs and health cowboys and that we are now letting it happen that EUR 1.2 billion is available to pay out to shareholders and private investors. I can't reconcile that with this minister's stories to deal with cowboys and reduce the cost of care. Why doesn't the Minister intervene now? This is the chance. Why should this also be postponed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u530	I would ask the Minister in his reply to include the opinion on Mr Hijink's amendments on this point, otherwise Mr Hijink will be back on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u531	That's what I'm gonna do. How do I look at that? I'm not okay with that. My picture is that more is being paid out at the moment than is justified. I know this from all the examples I know, like Mr Hijink, from the newspaper and from television and sometimes from the investigation of the inspection. Very often these are also providers that you can run into in other ways. Especially when there is fraud, there are many possibilities. Moreover, I sent a detailed letter on the distribution of profits from the Pointer list in October. A profit distribution of a large 10% is simply socially irresponsible. So I am actually saying after what Mr Jansen said about it in the first term. And I think you are of the same opinion. The only thing I'm saying is that if you make a total ban on that, you're also making a lot of impossible things that you wouldn't want to destroy or make impossible. Would we, for example, want to make impossible a first-line health centre that works in the form of a partnership? Oh, come on. There's not necessarily something going on there. These are people who have invested their own money in that primary health centre and who receive their salary partly in the form of a profit distribution. Is that a construction that's no longer allowed? I don't think there's anything bad going on there. There is something bad going on with guys who want to make money as quickly as possible and start a care institution to make themselves, or their real estate-e.g. or otherwise, pay 10% or more out of care equipment. That is indeed bad, because it can only be done in one way: either through too high tariffs or through the provision of care that is too weak for the money that has to be paid for that care. And then I very much agree with Mr Hijink. I'm looking for the ability to make the things you don't want impossible, or limit or limit, without making any appearances of profit distribution or profit sharing impossible. The latter would be too rigorous and too blunt a measure for what we want to achieve. However, the purpose of the measure I would like to take is exactly the same as what Mr Hijink is saying. Indeed, we need the next legislative proposal, also because this is initially a quality law and the law is an integrity law for health care providers. This is one of the hardest things to think about in all precision. After all, you need to achieve a standard for socially responsible profit distribution in outpatient care. It's not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u532	And this means that your opinion on both the amendment No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the amendment to item No. 11 as the
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u533	Yes. The amendment in part No. 11 I do not recommend it because it refers to 'all institutions'. Mr Jansen of the PVV follows another logic, which I can very well follow in substance. He also takes with him all the subcontractors who work in extramural care and who already have a profit ban from inpatient care. Complicated is, for example, a nursing home that hires a physiotherapist. A physiotherapist is covered by extramural care. You hire him as a sub-contractor because otherwise you have to hire your own physiotherapist. And this happened to be a good one from the neighborhood. Nothing wrong with that, nothing wrong with it. But this amendment must no longer be adopted. So you're gonna make that collaboration impossible. That is why I would not be in favour of that either, although I fully understand the logic of the substance of inpatient care. But this amendment, too, would have undesirable consequences, so I would also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u534	That is the amendment to item No. 23 by Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u535	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u536	Then I'll come back to Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u537	So you can see that everything with which we could really have made substantial progress in this law is now being dissuaded by the Minister. I pointed out earlier in my contribution to the studies that Het Financieele Dagblad has also done.I think this has already happened in 2017 to the different constructions that some healthcare providers use to make a lot of money from the care. This is mainly in the distribution of profits. The Minister wonders whether the amendment is not too rigorous, but we have often had discussions with Minister Bruins about why we still have those hospitals that have to live off profits. Of course, there's no need for that at all. When the Minister talks about starting a beautiful institution in the district, I think that is excellent. But those people can also just be on the payroll. This also responds to Mrs Van den Berg's story that we have an insight into the financial flows of healthcare institutions. So what's the problem with this profit distribution? Once it is in such an example, we have no idea what will happen to that money. Then we will no longer be able to see in a financial statement what is left of salaries and whether the WNT is not exceeded very far. That is why I say to the Minister, if he chooses to be clear: then you have to get rid of the benefit, and then it would be perfectly logical for as many people as possible, or almost all carers, to become self-employed. Then you solved this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u538	I will reply to that in all precision. With Mr. Hijink, I share the desire to make it impossible for you to enrich yourself through profit distribution, that you scrape money off the rate of care to make it better for yourself. And yes, there are structures right now that you shouldn't want, that are consciously invented in that way. You can name them all. You can mention all these stories because you know them from the newspaper and from the various inspection reports. Some of these institutions can also be challenged in a different way, but for some of them it remains extremely uncomfortable because there money for care is obviously not used for the care but for a thick bank account of the person who created that construction. You need to get rid of that. I'm just sharing that. Period. It's about how you wish to achieve that. Of that I say: if you do it in the way Mr Hijink proposes, you will destroy things that you would not necessarily want to destroy. As an example, I mentioned the sizes. You can't choose for another reason; you can, that's fine. But that doesn't have so much to do with the profit side of it. If you look closely at the research we have done and the way in which profit distribution is currently occurring in healthcare, you will see different ways, which are not all problematic. There are many examples of this in primary care. Then it's just a group of people with a medical background who start a primary health care center together, put their own money into it and let themselves pay in a way where there is a distribution of profits at the end of the month or at the end of the year. That's not very problematic. It doesn't go wrong there either. There's really nothing wrong with it. If you wouldn't want to make that impossible, but you want to take care of those guys who run off with quick profits and come up with these constructions to keep money that's meant for care, you have to come up with a more precise clause, and that's exactly what we want. The second element, which I mentioned myself, is this. Especially when it comes to new forms of living and caring, you also want to keep investors for that part of the care. Please let them invest fully and put much of their pension money or much of other assets into that movement to enable new forms of living and care. If there is also a need for a dividend payment, that is not the worst thing. Only if the percentages of 10% are going to matter, that's crazy, and then you have to want to get rid of it. In short, we are going to come up with a more precise proposal to achieve that goal with the same objective as Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u539	This has really changed a lot. It can be prosecuted in the second term. I'll give you some space, but I'll give you a new question. Otherwise, I will hear the same arguments five times. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u540	The Minister says that we are also going to come up with a standard for socially responsible rates of profit in the Act. I'm beginning to understand why it's taking so long. That will not only be complicated in society, but possibly also within the coalition, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u541	That might not be so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u542	Anyway, this as an observation on the sidelines. I had a question. The minister says you don't want unwanted profits. In the study by Suijs and Verbon, to which Mr Hijink also refers, it is said that 1.2 billion is being distributed in profits, which I think they had investigated for 2015. GroenLinks would like to go further and want a broader ban on profits, but many of these experts say: the most important thing is more transparency. That's how you get rid of so many of those unwanted high-profit payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u543	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u544	That is exactly what my amendment is about. I do not know whether my amendment lies with Mr Bruins or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u545	With Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u546	That amendment is about creating more transparency, which is going to solve some of those problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u547	Sure. I'll share that. This is also why, for example, the annual responsibility obligation has also been extended to subcontractors. That helps. Mr Bruins will look into this in a moment, as will your amendment. But that's true. What you must really want is transparency. But then you still don't want the wrong things to happen transparently. You don't want to. Well, at least you've seen them, but once you've seen them, you have to want and be able to do something about them. I think it's part of each other. Transparency is certainly necessary, so we are promoting it. In addition, an action repertoire is needed the moment you think: "Yes, boys, but this is obviously just wrong. Here you are just filling your own pockets. It has nothing to do with care." Then there's got to be something you can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u548	The Minister is dissuading our amendment because of an undesirable side effect, if I may explain it that way. We can also indicate: this is the standard we all want; lay it down with a healthcare provider to explain why they do want to deviate from that standard in that particular situation. That is how we intended the amendment in principle. Can you agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u549	That could be a design, I say, through you, Mr President. But give us the opportunity to work that out in a good way in the bill we have announced. These variants, say, are one of the reasons that we really need a little more time to work out. That is why we cannot come up with that bill for a while and that it will take a while before we can come up with it. It will come as soon as possible, I promised you. But this is one of those things. You actually want the same thing. For inpatient care, of course, you also want the subcontractors of that inpatient care to be covered by that profit ban. But you don't want to make working with such a physiotherapist impossible, and I can think of a few more examples. It is precisely to use that precision in the execution that I really want to think about. If you accept the amendment now, then a nursing home should no longer cooperate with a physiotherapist where there is profit distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u550	I'm just gonna think about the answer I'm getting. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u551	Thank you. The Minister will continue his speech, perhaps to the varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u552	Then I'm at my last block. Sure, this is varia. I see what you mean now, because I now have the amendment to item No. 22 in front of me. It could have been licensed. It is said that the authorisation is refused or withdrawn in the event of an infringement of Article 35 Wmg, which concerns unlawful declaration. I have two comments to make on this, which I think Mr Veldman himself has already answered, so I look at him in the eye as to whether we are on the same page in this respect. First of all, you say it's a can-determine. You may do it, but you don't always have to. I think you're saying that for a very legitimate reason. I'd like to test that with you, too. A cow is an animal, but an animal is not always a cow. Unlawful, for example for a municipality, is not contracting. That's illegal. That is very bad, at least according to the accountant, and he says that on the basis of the European directive. But sometimes it's a really good idea to do it like this. This also sometimes applies to subsidies which your Chamber wants us to provide as departments. That's also illegal. Then the Court of Auditors says: 'Fai', that is illegal. But then we're glad we did it. Because if we hadn't, we would have had a much more complicated debate with your Chamber. Sometimes you do something illegal for a good reason. Fraud is, of course, unspeakable, never. There's never a good reason for fraud. In that case, you want that permit to be refused or revoked anyway. That is why I think it is right to add this. It is, of course, a small advance on the Business Act, but it is a very obvious advance on that. That is why I think I should like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u553	The amendment in part No. 22 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u554	Then maintain the governance code by the IGJ. Mrs Van den Berg, who is connected with us at the moment, asks if I can arrange for the inspection to be maintained already on the basis of the Governance Code. The inspection already uses the governance code as a field standard for their monitoring of quality and safety of care. Not all elements of the governance code are equally suitable for this. The inspection shall use the code where possible as a basis for breach of the WTZi or the Wkkgz. This means that the IGJ sometimes intervenes when violating the governance code creates risks for the quality and safety of patient care. With your Chamber, I believe that external supervision, the IGJ or the NZa, should be able to intervene more quickly, even if a breach of the code does not lead directly to quality risks. This has been the case, for example, in the Alliade case. There the inspection wanted to intervene, but it could not be demonstrated that the fact that one had not complied with one's own governance code actually led to quality risks. In short, what we want in the law on sound management is also that type of provision, which we actually derive from the governance code, directly put into the law, so that the inspection can also be maintained on that basis. Then, for example, there is a conflict of interest. Would you like to table with parties to ensure that there is a single generic governance code applicable to all healthcare sectors? In health care, a lot is already regulated in governance codes. The Health Governance Code 2017 has been drawn up by the industry organisations in the healthcare sector. These are ActiZ, GGZ Nederland, NFU, NVZ and VGN and they are widely worn. In addition, there are groups of providers that have developed their own code that better reflect their specific situation. An example of this is the code of the private clinics. A new comprehensive generic code will, given the huge variety of healthcare providers, help not so much to become more stringent, but rather to generalise standards and thereby reduce their enforcement, applicability and steering. That's why I don't like an overall generic code that works all over the place. What I think is actually our job is to give the inspection more teeth by giving a number of provisions of that governance code a direct effect in the law so that the inspection itself can maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u555	I understand the Minister's argument. What the CDA was looking at is whether we can make sure that the whole care field is at least going to get a code. I can understand that the Minister says that he might prefer four different codes than one general code. But is the Minister prepared to talk to the field that does not yet have a code to ensure that there will be a code everywhere that the inspection can use to maintain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u556	Still, the separation of roles, who's supposed to do something about it? My first point is that I do not believe that there is a lack of codes. There's a lot of codes. You're tripping over the codes. In the largest sectors, i.e. hospitals, ActiZ and disability care, there is simply a governance code. Whether everyone adheres to it is a second, but there is a governance code. What is lacking at the moment is teeth on the inspection side and then acting on the basis of some of the provisions of that governance code. The inspection does use it as a field standard. Thus, in the basis of a decision of the Wkkgz, reference is made to that code, but there is no independent operation without the quality heating backwards which allows you, for example, on the basis of conflict of interest, to nail someone to shame. It's hard to justify that. There's a risk of going down. So what I think is my job is to provide the inspection with sufficient tools to deal with conflicts of interest, for example, by then. That's what I want to do. So I'm not gonna be carrying governance codes, but I'm gonna be carrying a toolbox for inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u557	In addition, Mrs Van den Berg. It can also be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u558	In the end, it is a question of tackling this at least on the left or on the right. If the Minister wishes to do so in a different way, I hope he will do so for the whole sector. I understand that he says that the hospitals and the large institutions are already covered, so we already have 40 billion, so to speak. But then there is still more than 40 billion that is not covered. I'd like it if all the 85 billion or so we spend on the care would be tight underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u559	I get that. So most of that is already under a governance code. That's totally fine, I guess. I do not believe in a generic code, but you say that you mean that at least all sectors are actually covered by a code. I say that most of it is under a code, but more importantly, we provide the inspection with teeth. So that's where I'm gonna move. But if you see a corner of the field where you say 'that's very bad', then I would also like to make a call to this or that industry organisation who had not actually invested enough in the governance code. Only, if I just look at which organisations are currently covered by a governance code, I think: well, there's no shortage of governance codes. At teeth on the inspection side to be able to maintain that, yes, so we're going to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u560	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u561	Maybe I should finish the conflict of interest first. In fact, there was another amendment from the SP that saw it. I just need to get the good part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u562	There is an amendment by Mr Kerstens. That's about the role of the director and the supervisor. That is the amendment to item No. 40. That hasn't been judged yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u563	It's gonna be Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u564	I hear no. 17, but that's about the profit distribution, and that's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u565	I think it was about countering conflict of interest. Or was it an amendment by Mr Kerstens? I'll come across it by myself, but it has to do with this. Is he with colleague Bruins?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u566	Mr Bruins is going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u567	Then Mr Bruins is going to take good care of us on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u568	If I may say which amendment does not yet have an opinion? That is the amendment to item No. 29 on the evaluation assessment. That's a little orphaned. I don't know if it's gonna be in the varia or if Mr. Bruins is gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u569	It's not in my pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u570	That is an amendment by Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u571	About the four-year evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u572	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u573	I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u574	Judgment of the Court of Justice in respect of the amendment to item No. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u575	Then I'll continue with the varia. Then I would like to put all the regulatory pressure questions together, because very, very rightly, attention has been paid to this. I think it is an important point myself. On the one hand, and Mr Van der Staaij said that it is striking, everyone wants that money in healthcare actually goes to care. Everyone also likes that when you start caring, you really make a number of demands and not just anyone who comes up with a nice idea to develop their talents, should give the space, because not everyone is equally an asset and so on. Everyone understands that. But then to think of the demands that really affect everyone... That is exactly how bureaucratic taxation comes about. That is exactly how administrative burdens are created. Usually with a good intention. No one, no MP, no minister, no alderman, nor any health insurance company, goes to work in the morning and thinks: hm, just think up the administrative burden for those people in the care. Never, really nobody. Only it happens. And it often happens with good intentions. Only, the sum of all those good intentions means a huge bucket of paper on the side of employees in care. That undermines the pleasure of working in health care. It undermines the will to becomezzp'er and get out of employment. It has all kinds of effects you shouldn't want. In short, it is very good to be very critical with every legislative proposal, even with demands that have actually been made from a very good point of view. So I'm just sharing what you're saying about that. What is this arrangement going to mean in the end? That is going to mean some sort of administrative burden. You have to be honest in that but always as luv as possible. I have just indicated this in the various amendments. That is actually my answer to Mrs Bergkamp's question of D66. How much are compliance costs? That is also a question from Mrs Bergkamp of D66. I just said something about that. The various supervisors will also incur additional costs. I'm sure they'll charge us for that. Then there is a response to Mrs Bergkamp on that amount of 42 million. 42 million is an estimate based on full accountability for all 14,000 institutions and all 33,000 soloists. That's a hell of a amount. At the same time, it is about a lot of providers. If you look at what total tax on the total budget is resulting, then perhaps that 42 million is not a very good amount. I can't really check that myself. If you look at the taxation of the requirements as we have set them up, whether it is about the obligation of annual responsibility, which Mr Bruins is so keen on, the obligation to notify or the obligation to permit, then we are really trying to do it as lightly as possible and not create a crumb of extra administrative burden if this is not strictly necessary for the purpose for which we need it. In short, I think that 42 million is an overestimate. Let us assess it by measure, but again, I think we are as keen as possible. Mr Veldman asked: does the Minister share the concern about the number of uncontracted suppliers and their increase? Yes. I've been communicating with the Chamber about that before. You do see a sharp increase there. You can also see a stronger evidention of the concern we had a bit about the uncontracted providers anyway, without putting them all on the same footing, because they are not all the same. The bill that the cabinet is preparing on that point does not, in that sense, resemble the bill of the previous cabinet with that ban, or at least the possibility of setting the compensation at zero. The existence of uncontracted providers is very much linked to the ability to ensure that you get back the amount of care you have lost from each provider. The failure to have a refund policy should not be an obstacle, because that is how it works to choose the provider that you would have liked very much. Then we have to settle that in the law in that way too. We have all taken that into account. The design of the legislation that is to come will be more precise than the previous one and will also reflect the distinction that exists in our health insurance system between a kind of policy and a refund policy. In doing so, we will have to look at that remuneration and not let it be determined by the judge. So the interpretation of the obstacle criterion must not be left to the courts but to the legislator. That's how the bill's gonna look. We will come as soon as possible with that bill towards your Chamber, in the first quarter as far as I'm concerned. Am I concerned about the number of uncontracted providers? Yes. But not in all sectors. Most of them are back in the neighborhood nursing. We have many measures to reduce the number of suppliers, to improve cooperation and so on, in this case also a little bit in the ggz. That is different, but there is also a similar concern. We have also agreed for a long time that the first ones to get to work to ensure that we have less uncontracted providers are the health insurers themselves, by making contracting easier. They have the first assignment. That is also what was agreed in the main agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u576	A substantive question. The inspection can supervise uncontracted care, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u577	Yeah, but you should know they exist. We're gonna take care of that with the Wtza. The notification obligation shall apply in full. Especially with Mrs van den Berg's amendment, they all come into the picture. If you are a very small uncontracted provider, if you do not declare your invoice digitally but in writing to the client, and if he then forwards the invoice to the health insurance provider, then you may stay completely out of the picture. But if you accept Mrs van den Berg's amendment, you will no longer be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u578	Then you have more the possibility of knowing who the providers are, contracted or not, compared to the current situation. The inspection may supervise. This can, of course, also lead to a reduction in the problems which the Minister very often talks about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u579	Yes, but if you look at the differences in indication... we have of course searched through Vektis for similar client groups. The assumption was always: if you look at the client declaration, we see a lot more care use among the clients who enjoy uncontracted care. Then it was said: yes, but that is also because difficult clients are being helped. Then we looked at what care is then declared and we saw that that is not true. So we see a lot of inefficient care in uncontracted care. So that's really a lot. That's one. The second is that we agreed in the main agreement that the number of uncontracted suppliers should fall, because the fragmentation in the district is simply not possible at the moment, especially in the major cities. This really is a big city issue. This reduction in the number of providers is not taking place. You see an increase in the number of providers; that is also undesirable. So we do have that concern; so that care has not been taken away. Maybe we should just discuss this when the bill comes before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u580	That seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u581	Mr Veldman asked if I share that concern. This was a pretty long answer to actually say: yes, Mr. Veldman, I share that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u582	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. It's part of the debate anyway, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u583	I have noticed that the whole concern is part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u584	Yeah, that's right. One more question. Does the Minister see a decline in uncontracted care in the fourth quarter of last year? Because, of course, all kinds of instruments have been used. Does he see a drop now? Then we haven't even talked about this law yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u585	No, compared to the number of uncontracted suppliers, you see an increase. If you compare the equation with Q1 and Q2 on a quarterly basis, then you see an increase each time. What is true is that in the sum of the number of measures we take, both in terms of funding and in terms of working as one team in the neighbourhood, as well as in this bill, of course you see, at least that is my expectation that everything will eventually work towards less uncontracted providers. That makes sense to me, too. The possibility of uncontracted will therefore always exist. I am convinced of this, especially in the current design of the Zvw system with the nature and restitution policy. That is, of course, a bit inevitable, especially as long as we leave the obstacle criterion in it. So we're actually going to legally anchor the obstacle criterion. In that it is really a completely different law than the previous one. But less uncontracted providers make it manageable. Is that a move we're seeing now? No, that's not what we're seeing right now. Mr. Chairman. That is what I think I have come to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u586	Then I'm going to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u587	I have that amendment in part No. 33 (34767) still. This raises the question whether subcontractors are already within the scope of the inspection. I will come back to that in the second term, because I need a little consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u588	Then there is one more amendment, because I understand that Mr Bruins would deal with three amendments. There is also the amendment to item No. 20 on the second law (34768). This is also about bringing subcontractors under the scope of the Wkkgz. That, I believe, also affects the amendment to item No. 33. But I'm a layman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u589	On the question of extending the scope of the Wkkgz of main contractors also to subcontractors, my answer is as follows. The NZa already supervises on the basis of the WMG. This law does not distinguish between principal and subcontractors. The NZa is therefore able to maintain directly with subcontractors. As regards the subcontractors in the Wkkgz, the Wkkgz does not mean that smaller associations or sub-contractors themselves are regarded as institutions within the meaning of this law within the framework of a large organisational relationship. Those who maintain that small connection cannot be called a healthcare provider. It is sufficient if the main contractor is addressed. It has the power to provide responsible care through contracts or by virtue of the relationship of authority. That does not mean that this amendment is necessary. I have exchanged a similar argument before. It is linked to that amendment in part No. 33, which I have to study on before I come up with the answer to the pressing question that lingered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u590	But given the answer, do you tend to dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u591	I'm definitely leaning towards dissuaded. The same applies to the other amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u592	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u593	It doesn't quite make sense as the Minister summarizes it now. In his response to the opinion of the Council of State, he stated that this is also what Mr Hijink quotes about the fact that the inspection cannot directly monitor the quality of the subcontractor's care. So we've created a very cumbersome route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u594	So that's actually the same point. That is exactly the point about which you read this for a reason and which I really thought was different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u595	I think that the Minister has to deal with both of these amendments, to the documents Nos. 33 and 20 January, which is an amendment to the second law, comes back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u596	Yeah, exactly. I'll take this under my arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u597	I thank the Minister. Then there's going to be a change. The Minister of Medical Care is going to speak. He will also make an assessment of three amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u598	I'll just clean up my things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u599	Take your time. You've been doing that all night. Thank you, Mr President. I'm sure I'll speak shorter than my colleague. I wanted to say something about the annual account and about internal supervision. There are three amendments to this text, which are contained in the Rules of Procedure. 27, 32 and 40. So I am not going to discuss in detail one of the points that was prepared for today, namely the concept of acute care. It remains a little out of discussion today, but it is of great importance for all developments in acute care. Mrs Van den Berg highlighted this point in her speech. It seemed right to me to mention that for a moment, because we also see a lot of working of the concept-AMvB. My comment on the annual accounts is based on the questions that have been asked to me. The first question on the annual accounts was from Mrs Ellemeet. She asked: who is under accountability? That's actually all the healthcare providers, including the subcontractors. We'll write that down in the AMvB. I'll give it to you. So we can name categories in that, but we can also exclude them. In the case of exclusion, I am thinking, for example, of a catering company or a transport company, but also of the soloists, but not of micro-enterprises. You have tabled an amendment to that effect, I say through the President. That's where I come up at the end of this block. In that AMvB I give you a more precise list of the exceptions that we have in mind, but let me give you some examples. Mrs Van den Berg asked: can you identify how many health care institutions are late with their annual responsibility? We can map that. We already have a number. There's 450 of them. The IGJ imposes approximately 450 charges annually under periodic penalty payments to health care institutions that have not filed annual accounts in good time. So that's of the about 3,000 institutions that's a very rough number that should do that. It is therefore quite a number of institutions which do not submit their annual accounts in time. Another question from Mrs Van den Berg was: does the Minister also think that small healthcare providers should deposit an annual account? Yeah, me too. This is also in line with Mrs Ellemeet's amendment. Then there was the question as to whether it would also be possible for us to carry out the internal control via ICT automatically on the front. I'd like to take a closer look at that. I think that's an interesting idea. If that can help to reduce or moderate the burden for the NZa, then it is a good idea to look at it. So I'll take that on board. I will inform your Chamber about this at a later date. Then there was another fine example, including Mrs Van den Berg. This was about the way in which the disability foundation JP van den Bent looks at different justifications, much more driven in the way that the Council of Health and Society has also described in its report Apparently of trust. It is much more looking at quality of care and customer satisfaction, much more along those paths looking at the efficiency of care. I like that very much. I believe in "giving confidence is getting trust." But that must of course be bound by standards, because you have nothing to do with trust alone. So this is one of those themes that I am working with my colleague De Jonge for the Wet integrity behavior. I'll get back to you on that. But I do like initiatives like the JP van den Bent foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u600	In other consultations, I have indicated that I am very much in favour of learning culture, benchmarking and evaluation. I would therefore like to see it placed in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u601	Agreed. That is one of the five B's mentioned in Mrs van den Berg's speech. It is not a question of pushing it all the way there in terms of the integrity of business, but of the word "integer" about transparency and quality, but also about how directors and supervisors do their work. That seems to me to be a point that we should involve in the Act on the Internal Market. The SP Group asked: is it true that many healthcare providers only need to publish a limited annual account? Yeah, in the stuff you got, it was. But if the amendment by GroenLinks, that as far as we are concerned, gets Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u602	That is the amendment to item No. 27 and that's about the second bill. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u603	Am I in the middle of a sentence... No one will listen. I think it is good to note that the lower limit for this limited annual accounting is going up. I also think that is the intention of the authors of the amendment. The distinction between the small and the large healthcare providers will therefore lapse. Mr. Chairman. One more question and then the amendment. This question was also a question from the SP in the first term. Mr Hijink asked: what will be the task of the NZa in supervising the annual accounting? The NZa will monitor both the content and not deliver the annual accounting in time. The NZa already had a look at it not delivered in time. But what has been added, which is more than what the inspection does, is to monitor the content. The NZa intends to do so risk-driven, using existing sources of information as far as possible. Thinking about that has progressed at the NZa. They're making an enforcement plan for that. So I think that's taking shape in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u604	GroenLinks' amendment is judged Chamber. I'm just gonna make a connection to that. All institutions and healthcare providers must answer, except the soloists, as the minister says, because for them there is a different regime. Is the Minister therefore in favour of making it easier for the NZA and for it to be done in a clear way, with unambiguous definitions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u605	At the AMvB we come back to what our idea is about the exceptions. That's more than just the soloists. As far as the uniformity of standards is concerned, I say the following. We have sometimes presented such an idea to auditors to see if you could work with a clear framework more than at present. It was sort of a working group..... maybe I say it all a little too plastic.. with a number of accountants. They did not come out to achieve this for the whole of care in one way and with one concept framework. I can try to work that out again. What might be possible is that you do it by sector in healthcare. I'd like that if I were you. That is not just settled, but I can easily share with the Chamber the state of play or the report of what we have done with that group of accountants. Because the more uniform, the easier the comparability is. But it also contributes to transparency and thus to an easier conversation, because you can go into similar terminology.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u606	We'd like to see that. We understand that the 200 largest institutions have a fairly unambiguous format, but that everything underneath has a lot more degrees of freedom, not to say: it can invent itself. So it might be a good solution to do it by sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u607	Yes. I will look into how we can do it sector-by-sector and how I can get that information to you, to discuss it further. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 27, on raising the lower limit of accountability. That amendment will be judged by Chamber. Mr Veldman asked what administrative burden I would expect from that. In the explanatory statement to the amendment we can already read that this should only be a very limited additional burden, because the regulatory burden will be limited as the providers already send the financial responsibility to the Tax Administration. That's gonna be one time to the IRS and one time to the NZa. This should not therefore create an additional administrative burden. Mr President, the question of annual accounting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u608	I do not know whether or not Mr Veldman will respond. It can also be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u609	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u610	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u611	Mr. Chairman. Then the second and final block. That's about independent internal supervision. First of all, there was a question from Mr Van der Staaij. Should the main elements of the AMvB on internal supervision not be more clearly laid down in the law? We have, of course, also read that response from the Council of State. We have also ensured that Article 3 of the bill now lists the main elements not in an AMvB but in the law. Firstly, this is the main task of the internal supervisor, such as being a counterweight, a counter-auction power. That's the one part. And the other element is the independence of the internal supervisor's position. So those two key concepts are in the bill. The development follows in an AMvB. That is the AMvB submitted by the Christian Union. She has made an example of a number of themes that we can use in the development of this AMvB. We're gonna do that in such a way that we're not gonna double. So we're not going to write it down once in the AMvB that belongs to this Wtza and later elsewhere. That must be additional and can be done very well, because we are still working on this Act. We're gonna have to present it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u612	That leaves you with the assessment of the amendment to item No. So 32 from Mrs Dik-Faber to the Chamber? Or am I too fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u613	Yes, the House's opinion on the amendment to item No. 32, chairman. Then we had that amendment right away. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of the SGP on the accumulation of regulation. That is actually the question of whether the amendment tabled by the Christian Union is now in addition to the proposal that we still have to put into circulation about the law on sound management. The answer is in the affirmative. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more amendment to go with it. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u614	Number 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u615	Yes, the amendment to item No. 40. We do not recommend that amendment, because it goes very far. Expertise and expertise cannot be widely used if the manager of one institution cannot be a supervisor anywhere else in the care. The underlying idea of Mr Kerstens, I suppose, is to prevent conflicts of interest. I think that this is a point that we can very well involve in the Act on the Internal Market. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u616	Thank you. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u617	I shall come back to the amendment to item No. 27 instead of doing so in the second term, because it may still be necessary to adapt. As it stands today, it is stated that all providers under 10 will be given the additional obligation to provide data to the NZa. What the minister says sounds like it's similar to what you're delivering to the IRS. If I read the explanatory statement correctly, it says: "The regulatory burden will be limited, because providers already send financial accountability to the tax authorities. With this amendment, these providers should also send a selection of that justification, namely the balance sheet, profit/loss account and cash flows, to the NZa." Smaller providers are also self-employed. Self-employed persons have no obligation to submit the balance sheet or a profit and loss account to the Tax Administration. They don't have one. If we have to read this like this, then it is really quite an administrative increase. The Minister embraces this and I therefore ask him whether he himself is in favour of us imposing additional burdens on the self-employed in this way. Because this is a really heavy administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u618	We're back in time now. That is because this is about the amendment to item No. 27. That's what I had judged Chamber. In the meantime, I took a look at the petitioner. This is about the micro-settings. The micro-institutions are defined in the amendment. So those are not the natural persons, not the soloists. That's really a different category. For I do agree with everyone in this Chamber, in this House, that we should not impose the administrative burden to an enormous extent. That is why I intend to submit to the AMvB that those soloists are excluded from the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u619	Clear. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u620	If so, if I can read it that way, it's clear. But it does not say, certainly not in what is added to the article. I would like to ask the Minister the same thing that I asked the Minister for Health, namely to have the home lawyers of VWS look at this in advance of the second term to see if it really is. For if we adopt an amendment at once, let us say that it will be adopted, which will still cover those soloists, then I have great difficulty with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u621	I think I've said it three times now. It is not the intention of the author. It is not Mr Veldman's intention. It's not your minister's intention. This amendment is really about the micro-institutions. The criteria that belong to micro-institutions are precisely mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. The idea that we should not ship the whole world with extra administrative burdens is crisp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u622	I would like to return to Mrs Dik-Faber's and others' amendment, which sets out the details of the internal supervisory body. The Minister says that this may be in addition to what remains to be found in the law on the integrity of the business. My question was actually something else. I certainly believe that it may be wrong, but I was actually hoping that this would make it unnecessary in part. Otherwise, my question is: what is the ratio that is now going to be in the AMvB, what is now in the law and what is being announced about what is going to be in the new law at the supervisory level?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u623	Anything we can do in the AMvB now just goes faster. That's very concrete. I think this is nice, too. That's what we want. We have talked long enough about the legislation. So everything we can do now is nicely taken away. Then can we arrange everything? No, I'm sure you don't. However, I think that the tasks and powers of the internal supervisory authority are a good point of departure. In the traditional sense of the word, they are very often focused on auditing the financial statements and checking whether the business is done. We have to look at what can already be done in the AMvB and what should still go to the Wet integrity business. I think that achieving the social objective of a healthcare provider is a very good subject. Thinking has not progressed that far and I have just received the amendment, but I would like to see if you can expand the role of the internal supervisor with this AMvB. Where that is not possible because it is too far away from the Wtza, I am still looking at the Act's integrity, because the role of the driver might be more in that. They belong to me very, very much together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u624	But I understand that these issues are taken into account as much as possible under this law. In fact, the powers are again a theme for the legislative proposal on sound management.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u625	Mr Van der Staaij puts it as "as much as possible." The amendment states that "at least a number of themes must be touched." That's just another thing. I'd like it if I could get a little space for the work in the AMvB. You'll see that AMvB. Mr De Jonge spoke about this in the first term. We need to take a look at what's in the Wtza and what's in the Act's integrity. Actually, I wasn't going to move it all forward to the Act of Integrity. Again with this debate, we are making progress which is useful for the AMvB we are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u626	In conclusion, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u627	I understand what the Minister is saying, but I would like to comment briefly on whether there is sufficient clarity as to what is going to happen in practice. How does the Minister respond to the point that we now see all kinds of demands on the internal supervisory authority, but soon a law will be passed with new demands in it? On the contrary, that can create a great deal of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u628	That's actually always the case when you say you're not going to leave it with the current law, but there's something new coming up. Of course, the theme of sound management has been in circulation for a long time. It's an incredibly beautiful theme to work on. We have some of the problem in mind with the Wtza, the Adaptation Act and the letter of amendment. We couldn't do more? Mr De Jonge has dealt with this in detail. Better now than moving the whole bups together again, because that would take too long. Would it have been easier to write it down if you'd had a clean piece of paper in a new situation? No doubt. That would also be very nice for your Minister's time of preparation. But it's not a good time. We are now looking at what can be done with this law and the corresponding AMvB. That is why I welcome that amendment. Undoubtedly, in a broader sense, we come to speak about the integrity of management and the role of directors in the new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u629	Mr Kerstens, I am still thinking about the opinion on the amendment to item No. 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u630	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have indicated that I think it is a very undesirable situation if directors could sit on each other's supervisory board again and again. The Minister brings that in: can you still judge independently? He indicated that he would certainly want to look into this in the run-up to the Wet integrity business. I just heard him say: I don't want to move everything forward. My amendment concerned Article 3 of the Wtza. Article 3 (1) (c) already mentions the possibility: the internal supervisor "is composed in such a way that members can operate independently and critically in relation to each other." The Minister and I both find it undesirable for directors to sit on each other's supervisory board over and over again, because it puts the independence and critical attitude at risk: if you're giving me a hard time, I'm giving you a hard time. If the Minister now says that he meant by Article 3 (1) (c) that directors cannot sit on each other's supervisory board again and again, we do not have to wait for a provision in the Act on the integrity of the business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u631	No, the provision that Mr Kerstens read is about allowing members on a supervisory board to express their opinion and have their share. But that is not what the amendment says. It says that if you're in charge of one, you can't act as a supervisor with the other. The issue of sharing expertise and expertise is very important. That's what we see in daily practice. Is that all cuckoo one song? Is that playing each other the ball? I think that's all way too big. On the issue of conflict of interest, we want to come back, because that is a complex issue. But I insist that the amendment to item No. 40 really goes way too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u632	Finalizing, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u633	I tried to do it as carefully as possible, but that made it a little long. So I was not talking about dissuading the amendment in itself. I was talking about the very specific element which I find very undesirable and which I heard the Minister also find undesirable, namely that it is now possible for directors to sit on each other's supervisory board again and again. In his reply, the Minister indicated that he is going to think about that independence. I don't think there's any question of independence in that particular situation anymore: if you're messing with me, I'm bothering you and the other way around. I do not ask the Minister to give a ruling on my amendment, but to say now that I find this particular situation undesirable and we can counter it with the text of the law as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u634	I'm just looking at it a little differently. I have said that I 'over and over' under conditions in some cases, if anyone can speak freely in a supervisory board.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So I am not against that "over and over" as the speaker is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u635	A further question from Mr Hijink follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u636	Unless I have been paying a lot of attention, I fear that the amendment in part No. 17 of the Adaptation Act I submitted...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u637	That is not recommended, because it also affects the distribution of profits. That is not recommended at the same time as your amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u638	Then that went completely wrong, because that is much more related to the discussion that has just been held about conflict of interest and about having interests in organisations and institutions that are hired as subcontractors. I'm just thinking about how we can do this easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u639	I think you'll have to name it in second place. The amendment has now been dissuaded and has been delivered by the VWS Minister. You can come back to that in the second term, otherwise we will have to change again, and I do not think that that would be helpful for the order of the debate. I note that both directors are done with their first term and propose that we continue with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u640	Mr President, may I speak for a moment, because this is not via the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u641	Of course, you may consult, but I think we had just agreed that when it comes to amendment No. 33 and in part No. 20 of the second law would give you judgment in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u642	That is absolutely true, but I am going to have a lot of motions and that is not going to work in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u643	Yeah, you'll get a longer suspension. I prefer to suspend after the second term of the Chamber, so that you can take it all together at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u644	That is why I shall come back to the amendment on item No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u645	Yes, very good. Let us now begin with the second term on the side of the Chamber. First of all, Mr Kerstens has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just started by saying that you don't have to be Einstein to understand that if you can easily start in care, you can hardly be controlled and make a lot of money, that not only attracts Mother Teresa's and Florence Nightingales, but also opens the door to care cowboys. The run-up to this bill was a sample of expectation management, but still different from what is normally meant by that. Every news report in the past year on health care fraud and on health cowboys was tackled by the Minister by saying that a bill is coming. Each opposition debate request was tackled by the coalition parties by saying that a bill is coming. This led to high expectations, especially outside this Chamber. The bill is now in place and these expectations are not being met. It is not a sample of "underpromise and overdeliver" little promise and a lot of fulfillment but of the opposite. That should be done better, as I have already indicated, at least in the case of the proposals that are still being made. We really cannot afford hundreds of millions of euros in care money to be spent not on care, on people who need care, but in the pockets of health cowboys, who take care of themselves. I also welcome the fact that the Minister announced again today that he would take serious steps to strengthen supervision and enforcement in the context of the WMO. As time progresses, it seems that those steps are getting more serious. I like that. That is what I will see if it continues to give substance to the motion I once tabled on a firm plan of action. I have one motion left, which I will now file. This has to do with one of the announced follow-up steps: the very important Act integrity management. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Accession Act is a step towards tackling (possible) fraud and related health care abuses, but more action is needed;]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal announced since summer 2019 is an important part of this process;]] [[Whereas there is great social discontent about the fraud and abuses involved and there is a broad desire to tackle them rapidly;]] [[calls on the government to consult on this bill for the summer of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I began my first term by expressing my surprise at the amount of information and policy areas that this law borders on, or rather not. I cannot say that at the end of this evening I have everything crystal clear in my head and I think this is not just true of me. It is clear that much remains to be done, even after the introduction of this law. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the rulers for their answer; one did it a little more comprehensive than the other. Thank you for that. I think we are certainly taking some important steps with this law. I prefer to talk about steps rather than big steps, but they are important steps. I am very sorry that the announced law on the integrity of business is taking so long. I think we can say that it will take such a long time that it will probably not be dealt with by this cabinet, given the electoral fever that is already happening and which will certainly rage in the autumn and beyond. That is a pity, also because very important matters need to be dealt with, which have everything to do with what some of us, including GroenLinks, would have liked to do already. So I'm very sorry about that. Anyway, so be it. I would like my amendment to point No. Sixteen withdraw. I kind of announced that. I understand Minister De Jonge says it's actually just too soon. But it is important to point out that we want to find out that we also want to have an authority for the youth sector with all the expertise on finance. Hopefully that's where we're going. In that context, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that financial supervision of youth aid is governed by the Youth Act;]] [[noting that the actual supervision of the finances of youth aid providers is (too) limited;]] [[noting that youth aid is largely outside the Wtza;]] [[calls on the Government, when amending the Youth Act, to develop financial supervision of youth aid providers in such a way that this will in future be comparable to the position of the NZa in terms of both expertise and competences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u648	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My second motion is with Mr Bergkamp. We both think it is important that everything we do now should be consistent with what is to come. Mr Van der Staaij also expressed this. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting, as the Council of State pointed out, that healthcare providers may have to deal with different legal changes in a short period of time, which does not improve the provisionability, consistency and feasibility of healthcare providers;]] [[calls on the Government to build on the Wtza in the forthcoming legislative proposals on profit, integrity and youth care, thus ensuring consistency of public policies for healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u649	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that this is being prosecuted, and not only in another cabinet period, but very soon in the case of the AO Care Fraud and in the case of so many AO's, I expect. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u650	Thank you very much. Mrs Van den Berg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for the comprehensive answer to all the questions, at least those put by the CDA. We had tabled an amendment to the effect that at least everyone is visible somewhere and must therefore be reported. I'm glad that's gonna get judgment room, too. I prepared this together with Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. I think that Mrs Ellemeet has stressed in particular that providers may be somewhere in the systems, but it is good that everyone knows what to do. I shall also table a short motion on this matter. Furthermore, it will be clear that we have asked a lot of questions about supervision and how to make internal reports easy, so that supervision can also easily bite and get teeth in the new law. In total, I have four short motions, Mr. Chairman. The first is with Mrs Ellemeet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that both new and existing healthcare providers should be aware of the laws and regulations that healthcare providers must comply with;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that legal and regulatory information is digitally available to new and existing healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u652	Then the second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, if a healthcare provider proves to have good results in terms of quality of care, customer and employee satisfaction and so on, less focus on ticking lists and financial reporting is needed;]] [[noting that in 2014 the General Court already indicated that good experiences have been gained in the framework of the Pilot Regulatory Institutions with such a focus on primary processes;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how accountability on quality dates such as quality of care, customer and employee satisfaction, etc. can become the starting point for trusted healthcare providers with the aim of reducing accountability and administrative burden, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the budget treatment 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u653	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas transparency in accountability is important for good supervision;]] [[Whereas uniform model annual accounts and unambiguous definitions increase transparency;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how to establish uniform model annual accounts and definitions of concepts (including real estate) for all healthcare providers and how internal control can be organised, and to inform the Court of Auditors about this for the budget review 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u654	Thank you for adding 'and moving to order of the day', Mr President. Then there is the final motion, which I tabled together with Mr Kerstens of the PvdA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that municipalities have a legal role to monitor compliance with the Wmo 2015;]] [[noting that municipalities and the IGJ are already working on the professionalisation and strengthening of WMO oversight in many areas and will therefore jointly inspect protected housing providers by 2020;]] [[noting that persons with a protected housing facility are a vulnerable target group;]] [[Calls on the Government to invite the VNG and the IGJ to pay close attention to providers offering and inspecting pgb-based sheltered housing in the plan for the oversight of sheltered housing institutions in 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u655	I have a question about Mrs Van den Berg's motion. The last sentence is about inspecting. We cannot, of course, call from the Chamber for institutions to be inspected. This is not how our system works, because the municipalities are responsible. How can I interpret that last sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u656	At least in the way we meant it. It says: request. In the end, it's up to the VNG and the IGJ together to decide what they're going to do, not the Chamber. It is an appeal to the Minister to make that appeal to the VNG and the IGJ.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u657	So if the VNG says "we don't do it," then the Minister has no problem with the implementation of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u658	Not as far as the CDA is concerned, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u659	I think I was waiting for this last answer. My question was what responsibility Mrs van den Berg now places with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u660	We only ask the Minister that he should send a letter to the VNG and the IGJ. Perhaps it would be even better to ask for personal contact: you are working on that sheltered housing project; we may also ask for specific attention for the pgb. Mr. Kerstens asked me that during the debate on the health cowboys. We ourselves had already asked questions because we were concerned, in particular about these two categories and also about supervision. I believe that several of my fellow Members have made that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u661	So the Minister's responsibility for this question will end, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u662	Yes, as far as the CDA is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u663	Thank you. I call Mr Hijink on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u664	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I found a striking moment in the debate was the recognition that Minister De Jonge accidentally gave of the fact that one of the main reasons that so many good proposals are being put off has everything to do with the internal contradictions that exist within this coalition, for example when it comes to whether or not profits are being paid out. You said that quite literally to Mrs Ellemeet in an interrupting debate. I thought that was a very interesting observation, and I think it is simply true. Anyone can see that. We see that through the letters that both regiments sent us about profits. We can now see that in the way that all the proposals that this law, the Wtza, could actually have changed for the better when it comes to the constructions, when it comes to profit distribution, when it comes to avoiding the WNT, when it comes to avoiding the ban on profit distribution... We could have done so much more. That's what I'm saying. I would like to return briefly to the amendments tabled by both Mr Kerstens and myself on the vog, the statement on behaviour. The Minister made the comparison with the people who have fallen victim to the Tax Administration. I've been thinking about that. If you ask me, that comparison is pretty wild. What happened at the IRS? There, people have been wrongly labeled as frauds for years. What's going on here? We ask here for a vog, a statement about the behavior, care providers, healthcare providers that we want to know: do you have something on your back; if you have, if you have been guilty of something, then we would rather not have you work in care. That is, of course, a completely different situation, because you are not eligible for an explanation of the behaviour if you have actually done something. The comparison with the victims of the Tax Administration is, of course, totally flawed. First of all, I'd like to conclude how I've looked at this legal treatment. I told you earlier that we really didn't have any chances. We could have done so much more, and I do not think it is right to explain that this minister, on television, in the newspaper and in other places, has referred to this legal treatment as a solution for the care cowboys, in order to get the care cowboys out of care. Nor do I think it is okay for us to hear this minister say in the coming months, perhaps even in the coming year, if, as he would like, he is the CDA's boss, 'we are going to stop the profits' and 'we are going to deal with those structures', while he has now lost the chance to do it. Soon in the campaign, I'll give you a note, and we'll hear all about it again, even though we already know that he's probably not going to see the treatment of all the laws that have yet to come and certainly the very important ones about the constructions themselves. I think that is a very nasty conclusion to draw, because we could have done something here today, and we are simply losing that opportunity because of political contradictions within the coalition. I'd like to make two more motions. The first is about the discussion we have had about whether the Wtza should now be part of the Wtza and how we are going to improve the supervision of municipal care. I am tabling the motion on behalf of Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parts of the Accession Act will apply to new healthcare providers in the healthcare sector, with the exception of the Social Support Act 2015;]] [[noting that according to the Information Node Care Fraud, at least 2,300 clients in care with a healthcare provider providing Wmo care have been involved in fraud, abuse and/or care neglect;]] [[noting that the Health and Youth Inspectorate will jointly monitor with municipalities in 2020 in the case of protected or supervised housing;]] [[considers that it is desirable that there should be national supervision of WMO care and that rules to establish a new care organisation should also apply to persons wishing to provide WMO care;]] [[calls on the Government to bring social support providers (in whole or in part) within the scope of the Wkkgz in order to include these providers in the scope of the Wtza,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hijink and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u665	I'd like to conclude with a motion on the capacity of the IGJ, of the inspection. We have now had a whole debate on the role of inspection. He's gonna do more later. It's got to go through more tests. My group, that of the SP, is not yet convinced that the capacity of the inspection is sufficiently in order to achieve this. I do not know exactly what the consequences will be of the various amendments that are now being tabled. However, I think it is important that if such a law gives additional tasks to the inspection, there is also sufficient capacity to comply with it. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Health and Youth Inspectorate will be given more tasks by introducing the obligation of notification and licensing of new healthcare providers by the introduction of the Act of Accession of healthcare providers (34767);]] [[calls on the Government to increase the human capacity of the Health and Youth Inspectorate so that there is sufficient occupation to implement this law in addition to the existing monitoring tasks that the inspection has,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u667	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for answering all the questions and also for the positive response to the amendment tabled by my group supported by others. I'm happy about that. I also hope that the amendment will be adopted in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Ultimately, it is about quality of care, transparency and also about enabling citizens to make good choices in it. I have also taken this into account in the debate. I would like to make another motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new healthcare providers are required to provide information on, inter alia, the nature of the provision of care, the quality of care conditions, the establishment plan and the date on which the provision of care commences when reporting under the Accession Act;]] [[whereas these data are primarily intended for inspection, but the data can also help patients and clients to make a choice for a healthcare provider providing quality care;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how these data, which are recorded in the National Register of Healthcare Providers, can be unlocked together with public inspection reports and measures for citizens, and to inform the Chamber thereof before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Veldman, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the directors for their comprehensive response to the multitude of questions. Of course, it's also a complicated, complex law. We actually have two laws. I'm also glad we have the treatment today. We have taken a number of steps in this direction, as Mrs Ellemeet rightly said. It is a comprehensive law, but when it comes to the purpose, the approach to integrity, we are, of course, awaiting the other law. I too am disappointed that it seems that we are not dealing with this other law in this cabinet period. That's too bad, because we would have had a nice diptych. It's no different. I do have a question about sheltered living for Minister De Jonge. That's where people with mental illness are now. They are, if it is okay, transferred to the Wlz at some point that always sounds a bit technical. That could mean there's one healthcare provider who has patients or clients with Wlz and Wmo. Then what does the surveillance and inspection look like? That's another question that stuck with me. Then I have two motions, Mr. Chairman. I shall table the first motion together with Mrs Dik-Faber. It's about the parenting initiatives. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the Accession Act healthcare providers may also be subject to a licence requirement for parent/family initiatives, whereby parents themselves take charge of caring for their children;]] [[Whereas such authorisation would create a high administrative and financial burden for these parent/family initiatives;]] [[Whereas the obligation to set up an independent internal supervisor for these parent/family initiatives is disproportionate due to the directing of parents themselves on the care of their children;]] [[invites the Cabinet to address the concerns of the parent/family initiatives in the preparation of each AMvB, to discuss this with Per Recht and the parent/family initiatives and to make every effort to avoid unnecessary administrative and financial burdens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u670	My second motion is with Mr Kerstens. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Act of Accession lays down a grounds for refusal of authorisation if no statement of conduct (vog) can be presented;]] [[Whereas the provision of a vog is an important condition for the provision of care;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the vog-systematiek can better connect with the removal of integrity risks and excesses in healthcare, and to use the results of this study where relevant to include an effective review of a vog in the Health Care Providers Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34767-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u671	I hope, once again, that we still have the treatment in this cabinet period, so that I also know how this motion was finally worked out. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u672	Thank you. Mr Jansen has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u673	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also thanks from the PVV to both directors. I would also like to make a comment, as Mrs Ellemeet has done, through you, Mr President. Minister Bruins did so briefly and succinctly. I would like to say to Minister De Jonge that this is the way it can be done. Let's hope that can happen sometime. Mr. Chairman. We are a little disappointed, because when we look at the substance of the debate, of the laws before us, we have to conclude that there is a lot going on in the area of fraud. That was one of the things that we attach great importance to. We regret that. Especially when you listen to the stated deadlines, you have to ask yourself whether we are going to make this cabinet period with each other. In fact, we find that very sad. So once again, the urgent appeal to the rulers: please come forward with that proposal around the summer and let us find a way out of this cabinet period. 'Cause if we're gonna push that through, we're gonna be about one and a half, two years away. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment briefly on the amendment that we have tabled. The point made by Minister De Jonge is not correct, because the objection he raises as to why we should not table this amendment is precisely what we are dealing with in the general measure of governance. We indicate that you can identify categories of institutions or organisations to which these rules do not apply. That is what we say in the explanatory statement. So I ask the Minister once again whether he can explain why he is not recommending this amendment, because the objection he raises is dealt with both in the amendment itself and in the explanatory statement. I'd like a response to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u674	Thank you. Finally, Mr Veldman has the floor on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u675	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both directors for answering the various questions. Thank you, too, for the appreciation of the amendment I have tabled in order to be able to tackle the real fraudsters, who are unfortunately in the care field, firmly once we have that licence requirement, namely by withdrawing or refusing the licence. I share the remark about the long lead time of the law's integrity in business. I tasted a little bit in a spirit of the Minister of Health that also has to do with the choices about dividend payments or profits. I am also looking at the coalition colleagues, but if it hangs on that, it can be done very quickly as far as I am concerned. There are a lot of choices to be made. In the same spirit, the Minister made a comment on the administrative burden. That is perhaps more important for the question of why it is taking so long. He said: doesn't everyone agree that care money should stay in care? That sounds very cool and that sounds very nice, but it's hollow phrases. It doesn't make any sense, because if you really think about it, then it does get very complicated and then things are going to take a very long time. Because keeping care money in care actually means that you say to the physiotherapist: you do deserve a sandwich, but you cannot buy bread in the supermarket, because bread in the supermarket has nothing to do with care. So you can actually tell the general practitioner who is a practical holder: you can earn a living there, but you can't buy a bike or buy anything else, because then money goes out of care to something else. This kind of thing complicates things and I don't think we should make things any more complicated than it is. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one comment on Amendment No 2. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u676	There is still a question on this point from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u677	I know it's late, but that's no reason to start talking this kind of total bullshit, is it? If a nurse earns a good income and goes to the Bahamas with that income, we're not going to make a big deal out of it, are we? Anyone who works in care can earn a living there. Of course. It's what you do with excessive profits and profit distributions. That's the point. That's the point I've tried to make several times. It is not at all a question of a general practitioner not buying anything in the store. What kind of weird talk is that? Of course he can! I don't know where this came from at all. I'd like to ask the VVD to leave this kind of mess alone, especially at this hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u678	It's nice to hear from the Socialist Party that a general practitioner and physiotherapist can still go to the supermarket when they've earned their living, but among other things the SP is constantly talking about the phrase: care money should stay in care. That sounds really tough, but it doesn't make any sense. But I am glad that we agree that also the GP and the physiotherapist can buy that sandwich with their earned sandwich. Mr. Chairman. I have just one comment to make on the amendment to item No. 27 (34768) by Mrs Ellemeet, which we have just discussed. Perhaps the Minister can reassure me, because what he has just said about Mrs Ellemeet's intentions and his intentions is that those soloists are excluded from them. Now it is nice that the Acts of this debate are also part of the legal history, but perhaps he can give me some extra comfort. Is it true that in the Wtza I have not been able to find it so quickly, that soloists have already excluded from this kind of administrative obligation, precisely because self-employed persons are not obliged to submit to the Tax Office a balance sheet or to draw up and submit a loss and profit account? That would be quite an extra burden for them. So if he can confirm that, I think Mrs Ellemeet's amendment is a nice amendment and I am reassured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u679	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Twelve motions have been tabled. The rulers also come back to a number of amendments. They need some suspension. I'll do that till two for twelve. This is both symbolic and in accordance with the request of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u680	The next item is the continuation of the treatment of the Accession Health Providers Act and the Adaptation Act Accession Healthcare Providers. I call the US Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u681	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Members for their second-term contribution. The encouraging remarks were about the length of speaking time, both by my colleague and by a single Member of Parliament. Of course, I take it to heart, as I always do. I kind of miss the briefness coach on the chair of the chairman, as Mr Bosma usually does. Anyway, next time we'll apply a more socialist division of labour, do it a little bit fairer than we do now. That might also help. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do some things. I am going to come back to a number of amendments that have not been fully finalised in the first-term assessment. Then I am going to deal with the motions as they have been tabled, just all in order of entry. But before I do, I would like to make a few comments. I shall do so in response to the comments made by your Chamber in the second term. The first point is that some of you had apparently expected that there would be a lot more in the Wtza. The Wtza's been in the Chamber for a while, so you know the Wtza. We've had all kinds of written treatments about that, so it can't be a surprise what's in the Wtza or not. If you have not seen it there, we have of course sent numerous letters in the past year. For example, the 9 July letter on profit is very comprehensive. Then followed the October letter on fraud, the November letter on the elaboration of what would be contained in the Act, and the December letter on fraud. In short, at many times I have informed your Chamber of what is written in the Wtza and in the additional legislative processes. So I tend to think that there could be no surprise in that. The second is that we are going to do a lot of things and we are going to take a lot of steps, all by 2020, including in the area of legislation. The Promotion of Contracting Act comes in the first quarter. The Act promotes cooperation and legitimate concern, including that alert register, will come in the second quarter of 2020. The Top Income Standards Act will be coming to the Chamber this spring. And the Health Care Providers Act is indeed coming. He's going to consult in the fall. I will work out a more precise planning path for this. To anyone who is already throwing the towel in the ring and saying 'yes, but by that time there will be elections' I would really like to say: I am going to do everything I can to get it done as quickly as possible. There are no elections this year. This is the only year in this cabinet period that there are no elections. That's great, because then we can just get to work. Those elections will come sometime. But even though they're almost there, for example, in January, we don't have to declare legislative proposals controversial, do we? That's entirely up to you. I am very much inclined to deal with every legislative proposal we table ourselves. I'm gonna see what I can squeeze in the schedule, but I'm not gonna promise you anything I can't do. That's the thing before. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of amendments. The first amendment is that of the SP in part No. 17. There was a dispute as to whether or not I had adequately commented. Because we are not entirely sure, and at least Mr Hijink had no memory of it or any active memory of it, I thought: we are just going to do it again. This amendment is actually about conflict of interest. We have the same goal anyway, but the design that Mr.Hijink chooses makes that you do not want the construction as such, so hiring an e.g. as such. There really are appearances in which that is not necessarily the most problematic, but where you should want to ban the person who is personally involved in that e.g. and could also derive a personal benefit from it, makes the decision to hire them for example. So you really have to want to organize it up to the personal level. In any case, that is the design that we have in mind. We will also put that design into the Act of integrity, because we believe in that design. So, yes, we need to fight conflict of interest. This is one of the subjects in the governance code to which Mrs Van den Berg often refers. We really want to shape it so that is at least the state of mind now that the person who might experience a personal gain from hiring an e.g. should not be involved in the decision to hire a particular e.g.. That is therefore more precise than the provision you are proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u682	But does that mean that you get what you sometimes see at some city council meetings, namely that someone walks out when a decision has to be made on something he has a personal involvement with? Because I always think that's a very artificial way of working. I'd say, if you're a director of a particular institution, you shouldn't want to hire another organization, an e.g., to do a job for you that you have a personal financial interest in. Does the Minister really want to take the route where you do allow the person to have a financial interest in the underlying e.g., as long as he is not involved in the decision? I would find that a very unbelievable outcome, because everyone sees that it does not work that way in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u683	I understand that very well. I don't want to. I don't want it to be just a wash nose, where you say to your neighbor, "Joh, I'm gonna go get some coffee; do you decide to hire my e.g.? And by the way, if you don't, I'd rather you weren't still my colleague the day after tomorrow." Of course, we don't need that kind of construction. That's fake. That's too easy. It's about two things. It's about whether you're personally involved, whether you're involved in the decision to hire a particular e.g., but it's also about the financial gain. It's both. You must want to work that out in all precision. A total ban on hiring an e.g. in which you also have an administrative role, can make all sorts of forms of cooperation that exist now possible, for example with primary health centres, but there are more forms to be thought of, while there is no direct financial gain at stake and when you would actually like to make those forms of cooperation possible. I mention, for example, a bv in which you house real estate for the purpose of spreading the risk. Then you have to hire them. Then it is not so much about direct financial gain but about spreading risks within an institution. Do you want to make that impossible? Okay, you can. But then you have to take for granted that you don't have all that kind of risk-spreading opportunities. With ICT, it could be the same thing. For example, you do have more examples that you might not want to make possible as a construction. But at least what you don't want is for people to hire their own e.g. to get better. And whether you are or a colleague of yours, you don't want that financial gain and you don't want you to be able to promote that decision yourself. That is why we need to think carefully about the exact way in which we want to regulate this. But this design is too rigorous for me. I can't quite see what makes it impossible for me to do what I might want to keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u684	The Minister doesn't want to see it settled in this law. That is a pity, because of course that could have been very nice. I'd like to warn him about naivety. Of course, you can always say: we have created these e.g. for the sake of securing the real estate or the ICT, and we need to cut that up. But nine out of ten times do play a role in financial interests. And in nine out of ten cases, it is true that these e.g. are set up correctly to rig up a shady construction. I sincerely hope that the Ministry will not be naive in making the new bill and that we will not be given another half-measures later, which will not put an end to all the constructions that even the VVD says it no longer wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u685	Absolutely. And I know one thing for sure: if I fail to do so, you will point that out to me when assessing that law. So I'm sharing it. I do not think we should be naive about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u686	A question about the planning and the Wet integrity of the business. I believe that the Minister is working on a law that should be very broad and perhaps comprehensive. But would it be an idea to make a light version, I think, so that such a law can be dealt with more quickly by the House of Representatives? Would that be an idea? Could the Minister, together with his colleague, reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u687	If you could now see the head of our Director of Legislation, you would see that your question does not immediately lead to enthusiasm. I'm just looking at what we're gonna take care of. It's a couple of parts that I can't easily sell separately. But I have already promised you that I will write a letter explaining to you more precisely the timing of the bill. So I'm gonna keep this one in mind, too. It's totally theoretical, though. I think there are four parts of that law. Suppose one or two are complicated in execution or thinking through how you would like it, while the other two are obvious. Then that could be a solution. But it is also about capacity, legislative capacity, which has to be used and which still has to type a lot of AMvBs. So I'm doing my best. It's not gonna take a day longer than strictly necessary. Mr Bruins is in the same position. And I had already put our department on the grill, but next Monday we'll be back on the grill. Our Director of Legislation has also heard all your questions very well. So we're gonna look at it again. But I can't grow grass by pulling it very hard. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u688	The Minister doesn't have to pull it. My point is, he's gonna see if a Leg version is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u689	That's what he promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u690	Yeah, but I also saw the interaction. And I understand you don't want to disappoint your director. There I can do something...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u691	I don't want to disappoint you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u692	Those were the Minister's words. But when I look so Chamberwide, there's some disappointment about that law. I am glad that the Minister will at least undertake to look open-mindedly at whether a light version is possible and whether that also means that the treatment can be faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u693	In order not to create false expectations about this again, you asked me to take a very precise look at this legislative process and how I could do it as quickly as possible. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. You add: but take the idea of cutting it, so do a part now and do a part later; could that work? Yeah, I'll take a look at that. But don't let the memory of this beautiful moment be in the debate: well, he's coming up with a light proposal! Because then we'll be a few weeks away and then we won't get the light proposal, and then you'll say: now we're disappointed again. So I don't want to, because I don't want to disappoint you. That's what bothers me all the time. Well, we're done talking, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u694	I'm glad you're so concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u695	Then we go to a proposal... No, first to a point that is still attached to the amendment to No. 20 by GroenLinks, which I have advised against, and the amendment to item No. 33 of the SP. There is the next question. Surely the inspection cannot supervise these subcontractors, because they are not covered by the Wkkgz, are they? The answer is yes. For a moment, I was thrown out of my mind by you quoting me out of your own work, but the inspection can, of course, supervise subcontractors. That is also why we want to have the subcontractors in the picture by means of the reporting obligation. At least the inspection will know they exist. Because why is the inspection overseeing these subcontractors? That has to do with the transmission of the Wkkgz. The operation of the Wkkgz is on the main contractor, but since he concludes a contract with another to do part of his work, that contract with the other implies also the transmission of the Wkkgz. In short, the inspection simply walks in there and may do so, because that subcontractor does part of the main contractor's care, which is subject to supervision under the Wkkgz. Then, of course, the WGBO applies, just like the Law BIG and the Youth Act. All these other laws are therefore simply applicable and can therefore be monitored. I think the confusion comes from the word "direct." I think it was about a direct pass-through. It is indeed not a direct effect. It is an indirect effect, because that main contractor has hired another for part of the care for which he is held responsible. That means that the inspection can simply walk in there and supervise it as if it were part of the main contractor's work. And that's right, because before that, the main contractor had signed a contract. In short, the inspection can supervise there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u696	Mrs Ellemeet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u697	This really isn't what I read. There is now a cumbersome way in which the inspection still has some grip on that subcontractor. The main contractor is responsible and must conclude a written agreement to ensure that subcontractors are guided in their work by the legal obligations incumbent on the main contractor. So it's kind of a kicked model, you might say. It is therefore not the case that the inspection can monitor the main contractor in exactly the same way as the subcontractor. I don't read that here. Well, we've introduced that reporting obligation. That's very good. And then you'd want that to apply: equal monks, equal hoods. It is also logical that you want to do so, because that subcontractor does part of the care and we also see all kinds of abuses in those subcontractors, not all of them, but some of them. That's why we want that reporting obligation for them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u698	There are a number of things going on with those subcontractors that make you want them to come into the picture as well as the notification obligation in the context of the Wtza, and can be addressed directly within the framework of the WNT. With the WNT, it has to do with the fact that the current design of the Law on Standards is linked to the WTZi authorisation. There must therefore be a direct scope in the direction of institutions and therefore also of subcontractors. No more circumvention constructions. The other thing is that these subcontractors are not always in the picture at the inspection. You'll solve that with the duty of reporting. Therefore, the obligation to notify also applies directly to subcontractors, at least after a letter of amendment. That was one of the progressive insights we had on that. Your question was whether the subcontractor should therefore be covered by the Wkkgz. That is not necessary when it comes to whether the inspection can be monitored there. Why not? Because everything a provider, a main contractor, is obliged to do on the basis of the Wkkgz, also applies to that part of the concern that he is mandating to a subcontractor. This means that the inspection can enter the subcontractor directly and see how it does its job. If action is subsequently required, the Wkkgz-type inspection will target the main contractor. It will then have to terminate its contract, modify a sub-contract or otherwise, except where it concerns direct standards to which you address professionals. So these are BIG-like standards or disciplinary law, if that were to result from the observations made by the inspection with that subcontractor. But there is an indirect effect of the Wkkgz through the contract that the main contractor has with the subcontractor. Therefore, the inspection can simply walk in and do everything that the inspection has always wanted to do with that supplier. The subcontractor is still often under the radar, but this is no longer possible because of the obligation to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u699	I get that last part. But it's a bit of a discussion whether the glass is half full or half empty. The Minister says that this construction will eventually allow you to supervise. I say that I would prefer to have the same for main contractors as for subcontractors and that I do not want any difference. The Council of State says: "The Section notes that supervision by the IGJ is not directed at the subcontractor, but at the main contractor, on the basis of the Wkkgz. The amendment does not change anything."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u700	That is incorrect, because if you are wondering if the inspection can simply do its blessing work with the subcontractors, the answer is yes. If you then come up with the enforcement toolbox, it is obviously aimed at the main contractor who then has to cancel the contract, change it or whatever. But there's inspection oversight. So the question should not be whether the glass is half full or half empty. My impression is that the glass is quite on the full side. The question must be: what is missing from the instrument box of the inspection, which prevents the inspection from doing its beneficial work, and what could the inspection do when you would change the Wkkgz and make it a direct scope for subcontractors? I think the answer to that question is: well, actually, not that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u701	The Minister continues his speech. Mrs Ellemeet, I think this has really changed a lot. I really want the Minister to come to an end and reach a verdict on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u702	Are you sure we've talked enough about this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u703	Knowing this committee, I know that you are going to have a lot of debates with each other and that you will come back to this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u704	I'm sure of it. Then there is the amendment to item No. 23. Mr Jansen says: I do not think I am well understood. For Mr Jansen says about the clumsy effect I mentioned in an example in his direction, that you can exclude it from AMvB. I can mention a few of them, of which I would say: do you think that is a good idea? Because the ZBCs, the self-employed treatment centres, could not really be able to follow the amendment, while the design of these self-employed treatment centres often does not always fall within the scope of this amendment. In cataracts there is often a very good patient satisfaction. Often they can also do it cheaper than the main clinic or the hospital with which you have a contract. That would be a pity for the patient and for the insured, because the premium will not be reduced either. In short, that is another exception. If we sit together for a while, we can all come up with these exceptions. That is precisely why I say: I see the point, I want it too, but give us the opportunity to work it out so technically that it comes all the way close to the intention but does not have the negative side effects. I'm asking for some sympathy for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u705	I'm always full of understanding. Only, the amendment clearly indicates what we want to achieve. That is: name the exceptions that are not covered. At the moment there are some, we can just name them. That is precisely what is regulated in this amendment. If you allow it to survive, you run the risk that every time tens of millions continue to flow away. That's what we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u706	That would mean doing this now and then making exceptions. That's exactly why I'm saying give us time to do it right at once. Then we can choose at once a design that does what you want, namely subcontractors working under an institution with a profit ban for which there is no reason to exclude them, and do not prevent the providers and constructions that benefit patients and insured persons. It's about that combination and that balance. I think we should work it out that way. That is in line with what you mean, but technically different designs. Now can I figure out what that looks like exactly? No, because if I could have made it up, I would have written it down. We're gonna need a little time to do that. That's why this comes back to the law on sound management. You can't do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u707	In conclusion, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u708	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The minister says he needs time. How long do you think you'll need to settle this? Then we'll come back to the planning for the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u709	That's right. Guys, we can pretend it's supereasy here and each of us can see that reach for a while, but the answer to that is no. At least, I can't see that scope. I can think of examples in a few minutes that I think: oh yes, indeed, that is indeed a construction that would make you impossible. I mentioned all the physiotherapists. I now refer to self-employed treatment centres. I can think of a few more that you say: we want them because they are a really good idea. I find that uncomfortable. If you cannot see what the scope is, then I think that a legislator should be cautious. Then it is not wise to go ahead and say: we are going to do it anyway and then we will see if we have to make an exception. No, I don't think that's how we should deal with institutions. I think it would be wiser to really take a moment. That law goes into consultation in the autumn. I already promised. I promised Mrs Bergkamp I'd make a good timeline. I have promised all of you that I will not think about it for a week longer than is strictly necessary. I fully understand what you're trying to do, and I share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u710	Mr Hijink, please do not repeat any moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u711	No, no, no. I am going to ask a very important supplementary question, Mr President. That question concerns the supervision of subcontractors, the point made by Mrs Ellemeet just now. It doesn't suit me anyway. The Council of State doesn't make these kind of comments for nothing. It is, of course, about whether the IGJ can monitor subcontractors in exactly the same way as its main contractors. And did they ask the Minister the same question to himself, without answering him, in the toolbox, the same means to intervene with subcontractors? This concerns, for example, monitoring and certain indications to improve quality and put the administration in order. Or is in these cases not the subcontractor but the main contractor addressed? If that is the case, there is, of course, a difference in how both are treated. I also spoke to Mrs Ellemeet for a moment: it would be very nice if we were to receive a letter from the Minister next week, for which he will discuss with the inspection how she sees this, what she can now see with subcontractors and main contractors and what it would look like with the amended law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u712	I can now explain the situation without a letter. I think I just did. Indeed, a derivative effect has been contracted from the main contractor to the subcontractor. It makes sure the inspection can just oversee it. If the inspection then takes a measure, it will indeed be done towards the main contractor, because that is logical on the basis of the Wkkgz. That's how it is. The question is whether the inspection will be inadequate. I will indeed put that question to the inspection: Would you like to have something extra in your box so that you can monitor even more firmly, better, more accurately, more directly et cetera? I believe that this question should be answered by no, because I believe that the inspection is not inadequate. But you're absolutely right. I am going to put that question to the inspection and I shall return to it before the votes. I assume you will not say tonight that you will withdraw the amendment because you have become extremely convinced, because I do not think you are. I'm going to send you that letter asking the inspection. I'm not sending you the academic treatise, because I just gave it 33 times, but the question to the inspection: Are you a little short in your box?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u713	In addition, I ask the Minister whether he can also look at franchises. Mrs Bergkamp mentioned this earlier, and it could be in the same area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u714	It's possible. That's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u715	That's what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u716	I would have prepared that point for the second term, but it just slipped my mind. I shall come back to that in the same letter. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u717	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u718	Then, chairman, the motions. No! I'm sorry, another amendment by Mrs Bergkamp. We were just discussing whether this customisation can be applied not only in its scope, namely which providers are and are not covered by it, but also in its size and requirements. It has been asked whether there is a technical need to create an extra hook for this. The answer is no. The amendment is just right. It is possible, also on the basis of the AMvB who had to appear anyway. In short, Mrs Bergkamp's intention, the possibility of tailor-made work, has also been technically completed with this amendment. I had that double-checked. Then, Mr. Chairman, I'll get to the motions now. I'm just gonna run for a while. In the motion in part No. 42 Mr Kerstens calls for the bill for the summer to be consulted. I just indicated that I can't. So I advise against it. The Ellemeet/Westerveld motion in part No. 43 goes into the authority role, the NZa role. I leave the judgment to the Chamber because of the discussion we have just had and the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u719	The Court's judgment applies to the motion in part No. 43 and does not refer to the withdrawn amendment to item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u720	The Court's ruling certainly applies to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u721	But the amendment had already been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u722	Yeah, exactly. The amendment had already been withdrawn, but I had already said some unpleasant things about it. The motion gets judgment Chamber. The judgment on the motion in part No. I leave it to the Chamber, because it is about consistency of legislation, and that is, of course, very important. Otherwise, you're gonna make the field crazy, and so are our supervisors. That's what we're gonna do. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 45: calls on the Government to ensure that information on laws and regulations is available digitally. This is something I can leave to the Court, because that is very important in the proper implementation of the law. Judge Room, then. Then the motion to part No. 46 over the pgb. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I'm going to say one thing. As far as I'm concerned, it's about the clustered housing forms that are pgb-funded, because that's where you see that pgb-providers are actually just acting like a provider, but getting into it in a different way. This was the motion in part No. 46?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u723	We are talking about the motion in part No. 46. The motion in part No. 45 has already been judged Chamber. I'll take a look at Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u724	Perhaps my numbering is not correct, but the motion on the pgb is with me the motion on part number. 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u725	No, it's my numbering that doesn't add up. Was this the motion in part No. 48? So this was the verdict on the motion in part No. 48. Judgment doesn't change, just the number. It is about the pgb for protected living and the approach that the inspection and the municipalities are going to take together to make the pgb'ers part of it. I think that's a good idea, but those clustered pgb shapes. So that's the motion in part No. 48 and he gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u726	The motion in part No. 48: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u727	The motion in part No. 49. We have already discussed in detail whether the Wkkgz should also be included in the scope of the Wkkgz and to include it in the scope of the Wtza under that law. That all sounds a bit technical. I understand what Mr Hijink means, but I am not in favour of it, because there are other possibilities for involving IGJ supervision in municipal supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u728	So the motion in part No. 49 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u729	Sure. On the motion in part No. 50, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. This judgment has been prepared by the Health and Youth Inspectorate. The motion calls for the staffing capacity of the Health and Youth Inspectorate to be increased. This is in line with the plans that the cabinet already has to talk to the IGJ, to see what additional capacity is needed. Then the D66 group asked what happens when the municipality visits a sheltered housing facility. Part of the business is about to go to the Wlz. A long-term ggz client moves to the Wlz. From that moment on, the IGJ will take on combinations of psychiatry and protected living, which the IGJ already encounters a lot. There the part is protected living for the municipality and the treated psychiatry for the IGJ. In fact, these are also the institutions involved. What you will see is that the part that passes to the Wlz will then be covered by the IGJ's inspection. However, combined institutions, where the municipality and the IGJ bear part of the responsibility, are on their own more common. Even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u730	Perhaps Mrs Bergkamp would like to come to this point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u731	So it is not a problem that the healthcare provider then has to deal with two different ways of inspection and supervision. I also wonder how that relates to reporting and licensing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u732	Supervision is linked to the system in which one operates and is then linked to clients who can derive rights to safety and quality from the different laws, e.g. the Wkkgz. Then the IGJ is the supervisor. The duty of care resulting from the Wmo relates to the municipality, which is the principal and the supervisor for the Wmo side. That is already the case. If you as an older home receive Wmo care, guidance and household care, as well as community care, then the system already determines that there are two supervisors there. So that's also now. Is that ideal? No, that's not ideal at all. If we were to sign up for that new country, we would probably do it a little differently. But that's connected to the legal establishment. So if the question is whether we can figure out this corner and cross it over, then the answer is that the problem is not gone. After all, you still have the institutions that do protected living for the clients who do not move to the Wlz and who then also have psychiatry, the treatment side. They still have to do with the same two supervisors. So if you figured it out, you haven't solved the problem yet. Sometimes it is and then you just have to operate in it as a supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u733	Mrs. Bergkamp, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u734	Yeah, sometimes it is. This means that such a healthcare provider has to answer in two different ways. That doesn't make any sense to me. I have previously tabled motions to address the regulatory pressure that smaller initiatives have to do with. Perhaps the Minister could look at this a little more extensively and inform the Chamber about it. It is, of course, strange that both the municipality and the inspection come along, while the people there just live in one care facility. I do not think two ways of reporting and explaining are useful when we are talking about reducing the regulatory burden. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he can carry out another thorough investigation into this matter and inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u735	That seems to me to be a good proposal. Of course, supervisors can always coordinate matters. That seems pretty logical to me. The regulatory burden could result, in particular, from the emergency notification which is required, either in the direction of the municipality or in the direction of the IGJ. There seems to me to be a double in the regulatory burden, in the sense that it's a lot to figure out who you should be with for which client. I will use the inspection and the municipalities to see how we can solve this in as simple a way as possible. System figure saws are just not the solution here, is my image.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u736	The Minister will come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u737	When and how?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u738	As soon as possible. But not for the votes, you know, that's not gonna work. I think I need to take it with me in the course of the letter on WMO surveillance. I think I should put it in there. I think it'll be heading for the Chamber in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u739	I shall come back to the motion on part No. 50. In the interrupting debates that the Minister had with Mr Hijink, he indicated that this law, in consultation with the inspection, of course talked about capacity and whether it is all feasible. He also said that there was agreement on this. I can follow that, otherwise it's gonna be a little difficult to enforce the law. But this motion is actually going a step further. This motion now says quite explicitly: we are going to expand. The motion therefore has no cover, but the Minister then says that he can live well with it. That is something other than what he exchanged with Mr Hijink in the debate on the interruption, namely that he took this into account in the law. Then I would like to know from the Minister exactly how he explains this motion. If he explains the motion in the sense that we are going to expand, I would also like to see it explicitly reflected in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u740	I already promised you that. I believe that you asked the same question in response to Mrs van den Berg's amendment. Let me just say something about the numbers. There are now about 15 inspectors. This is not the total human capacity, but 15 FTE inspection is in the process of monitoring new healthcare providers. Well, then it's not so hard to count on your fingers that the Wtza means an extension. Indicatively, it was now estimated that 10 fte had been added. That was also included in the budget. However, considering what the inspection should do, this is not the only extra job that the inspection will have to do in the near future, even considering how Mrs van den Berg's amendment counts, you could easily feel on your clogs that the ten will also be insufficient, from 15 to 25 fte, and that you have a few more. That is why I am not so very afraid of the word 'expand'. That is the most logical implication of this bill and of Mrs van den Berg's amendment. I think that conversation is fair, too. I'm not running away from that. If you have coverage concerns, my answer to that is that I really think that this is room that I should be able to find in the VWS budget. I will not file a claim with the Minister of Finance. I think he assumes that I will handle this in my own budget. So this is just an assignment I have on my way to the budget. You are right to say: then I would also like to see explicitly in the budget the way in which this budgetary adjustment has been made, and so the budget is actually being added to the place where the inspection is to be carried out. I get that, and I'm gonna do that. In fact, you have the budget right. So if you say that I have been very spouty in the direction of inspection, you can put it together and do other nice things about it, because that's how budget law works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u741	In conclusion, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u742	That is good, and that sounds nice, but then it might be a little difficult to implement the law which is now being amended properly. Let me give the following to the Minister for what is going to come up with legislation and which he is going to send us; it is a total of seven, I believe. I do like it if the Minister makes explicit reference to these laws as to what it is asking for human capacity from any body. If that's more, I'd like that to be insightful in the legal treatment itself. Now it's a bit like we're gonna have to check with each other at a later stage to see if that capacity is there and if it's gonna be possible to finance it. If, in the autumn, the Chamber says that it does not think it is such a good idea, then the same minister will come back to the Chamber with the message: yes, you have already passed a law, and I cannot implement it. Well, that makes it a little complicated. So I'd like to ask that in the next laws that are coming, in the law...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u743	Clear. You asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u744	... is explicitly in view of whether it requires additional capacity and that it can be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u745	Yeah, as far as that's possible at the time. I would just like to say a few words about how I think a legislative process is going. You're a co-legislator. It is therefore not possible for you to adopt a law which I then say: yes, but I cannot implement it, because then I have no money for it. The moment you pass a law as a chamber, I have to implement it and I have to make sure there's money for it. If an amendment is so far-reaching that it requires 100 FTE or so, then I will raise my finger. Then I say, "Yes, but Brown can't stand it. Then I have to consult my colleague from the finance department first. Then I must first have consultation in the cabinet." That is what I am doing at a time that is separate from the financial decision-making process. If that were the case, I would have reported in that way. That is not the case. From this, you can deduce that I will succeed, with united forces and in cooperation, in close cooperation, I can say, with Mr Bruins, to ensure that we fit this in. If that doesn't work, I have to make sure that does. It's as simple as that. So I am not going to report back in the autumn with the message that it didn't work anyway, so do you want to be okay if this part of the law doesn't go through? I'm not gonna do that, because that's not the assignment you're giving me as a Chamber. Moreover, the budget is also a law. You're just a co-legislator and you have the budget right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u746	And the answer to the question in that letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u747	As far as I can. I already told you. As far as I can, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u748	Really finalizing, Mr. Veldman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u749	By the way, in that letter, I'm not gonna put all FTEs. That doesn't look good. What I do do, however, in this legislation, is to reflect as closely as possible what it costs for capacity. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u750	Really finalizing, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u751	The latter seems to me to be a good one. As far as this 'as good as possible' is concerned, I would like to challenge the Minister and compare him with another right that this Chamber has, namely the right of initiative. This Chamber can also draw up and deal with own initiative laws. It is a good habit that if there are financial consequences, the initiators indicate what they are. The Minister is then an advisor to the Chamber, and ministers often say: nice initiative law, but this does mean something for my budget, so that should have been shown and it should have been indicated where it is financed from. I would also like to put that challenge to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u752	It is an extremely interesting debate and that also affects budget law. Indeed, many ministers say that the impact of this initiative law is such that it amends my budget, which is also a law. In itself, it all fits with budget law. It is right that the Minister grumbling, but rightly that you then say: "Well, we accept it, and so it needs to be fitted." That's a bit of a friction, isn't it? There are own-initiative laws, and I will not give you any examples, because then there are all kinds of other interruptions that do indeed have such a financial impact that you really have to ask yourself whether coverage should not have been provided for there. At that time, however, the Chamber also feels that it is in charge, and rightly so, and that budget law should be maintained at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u753	No, we're not gonna go through with this anymore. Sorry, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u754	I find it too easy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u755	You can find that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u756	Well, then it's in the picture. What I ask of this minister is that if he sends laws to the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u757	Mr. Veldman, the minister has promised that within his ability, he's going to visualize it. We're not gonna talk about what's going on in initiative laws anymore... that's really going too far. It's now 10:30. We don't have all the parts on the motions yet. I'm done with it. The Minister continues his speech and gives the judgements on the motions on which he still has to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u758	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 52 on the parental initiatives to involve the concerns of the parent/family initiatives in the development of each AMvB and to conclave on this with Per Balance and the parent/family initiatives. Of course I'm gonna do that. Otherwise, you might just make demands that don't fit at all, so I'm definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u759	Judgement room, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u760	Yes, judge Room. Also on the motion on item No. 53 I leave the judgment to the Chamber. A number of Vog amendments have been passed, and I have always commented on them. At the same time, I understand that you want more with the vog-systematiek, also looking at how we do that in other sectors. I can also pass judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Let me say. Excuse me. Then it could be just like that, Mr President, that we have come to the end again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u761	Yes, but there are still motions that need a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u762	... of my part of the second term of office. I shall now, of course, leave the floor to my esteemed colleague Bruno Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u763	Thank you for your second term. I now turn to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u764	Mr. Chairman. Three motions and one question. First of all, the motion in part No. 46, submitted by the CDA, on accountability on quality dates. It invites the government to examine them and inform the Court of Justice about them in the 2021 budget. I would like to draw attention to a project which has been in existence since 1 October and which is called innovative justification. That's a project from the NZa. It's looking at how to use internal control information as practically as possible. I'm a little worried about that. Because Mrs Van den Berg is asking us to do a new investigation, but this has already started. With accountability dates, you always look back. I'm actually looking a little bit. The experiment of innovative justification runs for five years. Then you can say "come back in five years," but I think that's a little late. I could imagine that if that experiment has run for two years, about the accountability years 2019 and 2020, and we have that information, we're gonna ask the NZa for some kind of mid-term review in 2021. I now need a lot of words to say: if we could do it that way, it still has a little content and then I could give this motion judgment Chamber. I have to admit, it's a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u765	I'm gonna take a look at the innovative justifications for everything that's been set up there and I'd like to get back to that. So I'd like to take that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u766	Then we'll hold on to what the verdict on the motion is gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u767	With this explanation, I'm giving her judgment room. Otherwise I've kept on offer, but that's a very long time. I can also imagine that the author does not like that idea. That's it, Mr. Chairman. I would also be happy to tell you a little more about this innovative question in a more detailed discussion with Mrs Van den Berg or with your Chamber if you so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u768	Maybe I can change my text a little, so that we can also make it clear in the motion what we have agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u769	Good. Then the motion for a resolution has a Chamber with possibly another modified version of the text, if I can sum it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u770	I've given you an explanation. That was the motion in part No. 46. The motion in part No. 47 deals with the study of a more unambiguous model for annual accounts, including definitions of concepts and including real estate. I have already said in the first term that it would be very useful for me to go on that route, so as far as I am concerned, this motion can be given a ruling on Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 51 of the Christian Union. It asks whether the data from new healthcare providers are available not only to supervisors, but also to other parties, citizens and patients. As far as I am concerned, this motion can also get the judgment Chamber, because we are already watching with the National Register of Healthcare Providers how we can unlock the information as requested in the motion. So I'm going to investigate those possibilities and I'll inform you about them before the summer. The last point was a question from Mr Veldman. He raised the question whether or not soloists were under the scope of the amendment to item No. 27 falls. My answer is no. Solists are not included. They are excluded in this legal framework through the AMvB. That AMvB is still waiting for you. Mr Veldman has seen this very well. In the explanatory memorandum to the letter of amendment to the AWtza, the intention to exempt soloists has already been laid down. So in that combination. What the author is trying to do, what we share here tonight, and what is stated in the explanatory statement to the letter of amendment to the AWtza, is sufficiently clear that soloists are not included. Well, I guess I just said that. Mr President, it is a little short, but I hope you will be able to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u771	It was obvious. Thank you very much. Many thanks to both rulers, their support and also to the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-29-tweedekamer-7.u772	Between the companies we talked about the moment of vote. Because of the large number of amendments and judgements, there is a need to think about them as well. The Minister also promised to submit a supplementary letter to the inspection. The franchise part is involved. That is why the proposal is to vote on 11 February. So not next Tuesday, but Tuesday, so that everyone can consult in their own group and receive the letter. Then we can have the votes done in a good way. Is everyone okay with that? Yeah, I see nodding. Then I would like to thank you very much, including the support, and close the sitting.
