ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr Hofstede. I ask the Members to stand up. That's what it says here, but it's happened by now. Today we remember Henk Hofstede, who died on 25 January last at the age of 82. He was a member of the First Chamber of the States-General for the CDA for eight years, from 13 June 1995 to 10 June 2003. Hendrik Hofstede was born on 19 September 1937 in Wilsum. He attended the Christian National School in his birthplace. In Kampen he went to the Municipal Lyceum. After three years he made the switch to the Tuinbouwschool. He served in the Royal Marines at the end of the 1950s. In 1961 he completed the training for the floristry in Zwolle. From 1951 to 1964 Henk Hofstede worked in the fields of horticulture and forestry. At the age of 27, he became a member of the Executive Board of the Christian Union of Workers in the Food, Agricultural, Recreation, Pleasants and Tobacco Processing Companies, later Food Association CNV. After ten years, Hofstede became a member of the central board of the Christian National Trade Union. He was responsible for well-being, development cooperation, military affairs and internal organisation at the CNV. A few years later, he became second Vice-President and then became chairman of the CNV in 1986. He stayed until 1 July 1992. In that period, Hofstede succeeded in making the various Christian unions a close trade union. He also served as chairman of the trade union movement in developing countries and was a member of the World Labour Federation. In 1958, Hofstede became politically active because of his membership of the ARP, following his father's grandfather. For the anti-revolutionarys, he was a member of Wilsum's city council for 25 years, as was his maternal grandfather for Municipal Interests. In 1964 Hofstede followed in their footsteps and became a member of the city council of IJsselmuiden, to which Wilsum had since joined. Within the CDA, he was later a member of the Development Cooperation Committee, of the Scientific Institute Advisory Committee and of the Gardeniers Committee, which examined the party's electoral defeat in 1994. One year after that election defeat in the Lower House, Hofstede was elected as a member of the Upper House in 1995. He was, of course, spokesperson on social affairs for the CDA group. He also spoke regularly about economic affairs, development cooperation and vocational education. First President Herman Tjeenk Willink said in his congratulations on the maiden speech by Hofstede, and I quote: "You are not an ideological sharpener, but you do come up with benchmarks, always called 'capsticks': charity, real justice, personal responsibility of people and freedom." Speaking in 1997, in the CDA's unexpected vote against the Rosenmöller initiative proposal, Hofstede was entitled to legally enforce a shorter working week, thus rejecting the proposal. According to Hofstede, spokesperson on behalf of the CDA Group, a legal right to part-time work did not fit in with Dutch relations, which are based on, in his words, "consultation and exchange." In addition to his political and social career, Hofstede was active as a member of the National Campaign Committee Anti-Racisme, board member of the Anne Frank House, member of the Board of Commissioners of Flower Auction Holland, member of the Advisory Board of UWV and until 2016 chairman of the College of Church Rentmeesters of the Grote Kerk Vianen. Henk Hofstede was appointed Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau on 29 April 1990 and Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion on 10 June 1992. In the same year he also received the Medal of Honor in Gold for the Republic of Poland. Henk Hofstede was known as a socially motivated union leader and politician. One of his most famous statements is: "Don't be too righteous, don't be too wicked." He sought that balance in all his work. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-eerstekamer-3.u2	I now give you all the opportunity to express my personal condolences to Mr Hofstede's family in the Hall.
