ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the report on general consultations on education and corona. I would like to welcome the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, as well as the MPs and viewers at home. We have seven Members of Parliament who have asked to speak. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66. All MPs have two minutes. A number of Members of Parliament have indicated that they do not want to speak. For the viewers at home: there is still a lot of negotiation on the motions. I call Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	Sorry, Chairman. I've got three motions, and I'm gonna start with that. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that early exhaustion occurred at the teacher's fair, which prevented the application of 2,400 teachers;]] [[Whereas this exhaustion occurred despite the fact that the Chamber was informed, both in the course of the budgetary procedure last year and in the case of inquiries earlier this year, that there were sufficient resources to honour applications for the teacher grant;]] [[Whereas teachers, schools and trainers have now been damaged because the training path cannot continue and the replacement does not appear to be necessary;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals before 1 October to grant the applications and to inform the 2,400 rejected teachers about them, such as, for example, a cash drawer bringing forward some of the resources for next year's teacher grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber has recently adopted motions on the priority testing of personnel in the vital sectors of care and education;]] [[Whereas childcare should also be included in these vital sectors;]] [[calls on the Government to treat childcare workers in the same way as their colleagues in health and education when carrying out the motions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-215]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-216]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yeah, about the first motion. The chairman just said that it was a bit chaotic with all the lyrics. I have now heard the motion and I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen if I have not fully heard the exact wording of the motion. How does Mr Van Meenen weigh that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	I understand that, but we have a problem to solve right now. I can tell you that it's pretty complicated to find the money for that. That money will be ready next year with this destination. My proposal, our proposal is a suggestion; we are also open to other proposals, including from the cabinet, to raise money and to solve the other problem. We can do that in the budget, for example. There are all kinds of times when we can do that, but we actually don't have time to wait for a solution, so this suggestion. But I understand that this will bring a responsibility to us to do it right or wrong next year. To be honest, I am expecting proposals for this in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Kwint, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	Exactly. Let me be clear: then we share the following analysis. It went wrong with the teacher's scholarship. In any case, teachers should not be charged for that and should therefore be resolved. Then this is a suggestion: you could look at this. You could also look at other things, but what's beyond question is: we solve it now and we solve it in the long run.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	That's exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	Would you like to get under it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you. I'll leave that to you. Third motion. No, there's a question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	I believe that we have exactly the same objective, namely that it is being resolved. I have a question about the content of the motion. It's okay if we look together and see what good solutions are. What if we are going to look at a cash slide now, doesn't that mean that we're going to have a gap in the budget over the next few years because there's always a need for new budgets to solve a problem that we now have? How does Mr Van Meenen see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	There's a hole. So that has to be solved, but we have more time for that. The big problem we have now is an acute problem. That must be resolved now, otherwise there will be no point. That's what I'm advocating. Again, the proposers are recommended for other suggestions; we are not necessarily attached to this. But this is the solution that we have in mind. Then we can solve it now and then we also have the responsibility to solve the other problem together. That must be done, of course, but we have more time for that. We do not have that time for today's problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	Couldn't we just table a motion with the request: Minister, solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	Yeah, of course, you could. I hope, of course, that the Minister will help to contribute to this, but I also think it is our responsibility to see if we can make a suggestion which could be covert. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pupils in secondary special education are not represented by LAKS, since they are legally covered by the primary education sector;]] [[Whereas it is important to involve and empower pupils in the implementation of policies, agreements and ambitions in their education;]] [[calls on the Government to support the interest representation of the students of the vso and to give them a place at all relevant tables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-217]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	In the motion on childcare, I change the word "serve" to "serve," because "child care" is singular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	I had a hunch it was something linguistic. Thank you very much. If Mr Kwint can wait a little longer, then there will be cleaning again in terms of hygiene. I call Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that people can now all see at home how totally displaced we are when a little bit is pushed into the schedule and that everyone is actually still busy halfway through the debate. The debate on corona and education still had a few loose ends. Of course it was also about the teacher's scholarship, but that's not the only thing. It was also about the registration of the test policy. That's why I'm making some suggestions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pupils are not taught daily due to the absence of their teacher due to health complaints or waiting for a test and this reinforces the already existing failure due to the shortage of teachers;]] [[Whereas there is no understanding of the teacher shortage partly due to the corona crisis and its impact on the continuity of education in schools;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the consequences of the teacher shortage........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	The Minister will recognize this motion, because I have already submitted it in a similar variant before the corona period. The reason I want this right now is that you're being flooded with stories about classes being sent home and about tests that can't be taken yet. And we have no idea what impact that has on the amount of lessons given. I think we should have that information. Then about the registration of corona infections in schools. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no specific registration of corona contamination that can be traced back to contamination in schools;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to clarify the number of infections that can be traced back to schools and the schools concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to register the number of corona contaminations that could be traced back to a specific school and to share this information through the dashboard coronavirus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-219]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	I already see a lot of enthusiasm in the reactions of my fellow Members, so I look forward to the votes. Then there is the test policy; that will not surprise the Minister, because we hear a lot about it and unfortunately it keeps education extremely busy. There will, of course, be an elaboration of an adopted chamber motion that calls for prioritizing staff in health care and education. We have a suggestion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	There is a question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yes, sorry, chairman, it's about the previous motion. I've had it settled for a while and I wonder if you're not asking for a huge bureaucratic exercise. I also wonder what it's going to add in the end. What good is it going to do in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	Well, I guess it's not very bureaucratic to add one tab to all the tabs on the dashboard coronavirus. Look, we already know when there's an infection at a school. A school knows it by itself. It's about making that information publicly available to parents, for example. They'll know: okay, here's something going on. It also gives us the opportunity to see how many infections there have been since we have all taken responsibility for reopening schools. It also allows people to access that website for information instead of having to keep track of Excelsheets themselves with information from newspaper articles on how many schools are closed. I believe that the government should be clear about this and proactively make that information available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	With all due respect, these parents, they already know that, don't they? They're in contact with those schools, aren't they? Then you can't reasonably expect all those parents to go to that dashboard and look things up to draw conclusions? I think that's a bureaucratic whole that you shouldn't really ask of parents. Let them communicate with that school; that's also the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	To what extent the school is the government, we can still differ on that. That may be a little more now and then, as far as I'm concerned. But look, a parent doesn't have to use this. Of course, a school also sends a letter, but it is also about the overall overview of what happened to corona infections in schools, so that we can see that and so that parents interested can see that. We also do this with, for example, educational quality and the results of citotests. There are a lot of things that we make visible and available to everyone online and publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yeah, finally. When I hear this motion like that, I suspect a lot of red tape with little added value. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr Kwint continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	Then I fear that Mr Beertema and I are not going to agree on that today. Then let's talk about the tests. Schools now have to buy their own tests, which leads to costs. We find that problematic. Therefore, the next suggestion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sectors such as health and education are seriously affected by the lack of corona tests;]] [[Whereas the Chamber instructed the Cabinet to develop a policy of priority for these sectors;]] [[calls on the Government to include the possibility for employers to apply for a test with the consent of an employee, so that it is immediately clear that the person to be tested is employed in care or education;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of compensating for private corona tests that have now been purchased by health and education institutions, at least until their own test capacity is finally in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	Then I will make a small textual adjustment, because my paper motion says'refund', but that must be'research'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. If you'd like to read that in the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	Sure. It is therefore a question of whether the private corona tests can be reimbursed by health and education institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	All right. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Chairman. We hear more and more stories from schools that are going to buy their own tests, because teachers who want to be tested sometimes have to wait a few days and therefore whole classes are sent home. I would like to inform the Minister that this is a question of education money spent on testing. I ask the Minister how he is going to implement the motion that the Chamber has previously adopted, which calls for priority to be given to the vital professions, including the field of education. I would therefore like to comment on that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point about children sitting at home now, for example because they have weak health and are not being educated. That's a big problem. You can't just put that on the teacher's sign. Teachers have a huge workload and it has only increased by corona. It is very difficult to teach both in the classroom and to give good distance learning. I think there should be better support for this. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a group of pupils unable to attend school in this corona crisis because the risk to their own health or that of a roommate with vulnerable health is too high;]] [[noting that, in accordance with the law, the competent authority has an obligation to ensure a continuous development process and thus to offer an alternative such as distance learning;]] [[noting that this is not the case for every pupil who cannot be offered to school or in very varying quality;]] [[noting that there are several initiatives which successfully offer distance learning but often offer a price tag;]] [[noting that education must be accessible to each pupil;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, with educational organisations, (former) teachers and distance learning providers, an alternative allowing any child who is temporarily unable to attend school to attend education free of charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one final point: the teacher's scholarship. As a whole, I think we have been very clear in the general consultation. We all said: Minister, solve that and make sure that the teachers who have applied for the teacher grant and want to further develop can claim it, and solve it for the next period. I'm very curious about the reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you very much. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. We're still awaiting prioritizing teacher testing. I think this is very important and I look forward to this actually happening. The pebble in the shoe of the general consultation remains the teacher's scholarship: 2,400 teachers have applied, but have finally missed out. My group has asked questions about this, together with the SP, GroenLinks and D66 groups. This is not a passable path for us. We have tabled several amendments which have been agreed on a withdrawal from the teacher's fair with the advice of OCW. We think OCW should fix this. That is why I tabled a motion with Mr Van Meenen. I always find it as neat as a motion is covered, but we have not found that cover. We have made a number of suggestions. We also gave it to the Minister in general consultation. Find a solution. We need that. We are now getting no further than a cash drawer, but that can be a solution for the future and now for these 2,400 teachers, who have just made that application for a right and a reason. They should be honoured as far as we are concerned. We want a solution for these people. We wish the Minister every success in his work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you. That raises a question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u38	I hear Mr Rog say that a number of suggestions have been made to the Minister except the cashier. Hasn't there been an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u39	We have also discussed this in general consultation. For example, we have made a suggestion about the performance fair. You can see if there's anything left at the end of the year and if there's any research spots. Those are all suggestions. We've also asked the minister for suggestions, but he says he can't find the money. I have lost money in the general consultation: EUR 40 billion, but we can't do it. If we are to support southern Europe, we will find a billion dollars a year. We just want this arranged for these teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Beertema, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u41	The suggestions you now mention have been exchanged during the AA. There haven't been any suggestions exchanged behind the scenes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u42	Those are indeed mentioned in both the AO and outside the AO. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u43	You do everything in threes, I notice. That's not exactly the point, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u44	That's not exactly the point, Mr. Beertema. I have to be a little strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u46	The tension requires a certain build-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u47	Yeah, we all feel him. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u48	Did that 56 million come by?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u49	That was a suggestion from yourself! Yeah, they switched them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u50	If you'll let each other finish for a moment... It's very interesting in itself. Mr. Beertema, please finish your question. And then I give the floor to Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u51	It wasn't a suggestion for me to hear the 56 million for the teacher's scholarship. I'd like it to be explained where the $56 million went. I didn't have one-two-three destinations for that. I know other destinations, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u52	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u53	That is not a question, that is an explanation of what Mr Rog said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. I can confirm that this 56 million has also been requested in the AA, including by the parties who were interested in using it for this purpose. Unfortunately, Mr. Beertema, we have also received no at the rehearsal. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We, too, feel that gravel in that shoe to remain with that image. So I, too, look forward to the Minister's reply. Mrs Westerveld has just tabled a motion on behalf of us on the children sitting at home. I have another motion on the subject of the greater educational disadvantages caused by corona and the lack of visibility that we have at the moment. It is a point which was also raised in the debate and which we still have concerns about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis places great pressure on education and on teachers and that the accelerated testing of teachers cannot be introduced within a very short period of time and, therefore, is increasingly taking place outside the fault of schools or teachers;]] [[noting that the inspection has rightly indicated that it will be responsible for compliance with the hourly standard;]] [[Whereas the review of loss of teaching and its effects on inequality of opportunity should be closely monitored;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the loss of teaching and the estimated impact on inequality of opportunity and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the end of the calendar year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-222]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u57	This brings us to the end of the first term. The Minister has indicated that he needs a single moment to prepare himself. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u58	A point of order from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u59	I understand by now that there are three other colleagues who would like to be under the motion on the teacher grant. I don't know if I can add that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u60	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u61	Perhaps it will save judgment if Mr Kwint and his mother are underneath it as well. It concerns Mrs Westerveld, Mr Kwint and Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u62	The Van Meenen/Rog motion (35300-VIII, nr. 215) has been amended to mean that it has now been signed by Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rog, Mr Westerveld, Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Hul. She gets no, was no. 215 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first motion, the motion in part no. 215, which has now been signed by five MPs. Last Thursday we discussed this intensively, also on the basis of the questions I answered together with my colleague Van Engelshoven. You know that this affects not only basic education, but also MBO and higher education. I'm the one who responds to what happened here on behalf of both of us. You know that we have turned everything upside down to see if we could do something about the inconvenience surrounding this subject, which was also felt by us. In the communication between Chamber and Cabinet it could have been better, to say the least. The communication to the teachers has been correct. They knew in advance that there could be bottlenecks and that possibly not all initial applications could be met, but not all initial applications could be met. They were informed about this early. It remains uncomfortable that so much has not been honored in the end. We have looked at what we could do to do that, but we have not found it. Otherwise we would have just solved it that way. Also the suggestion in the motion, working with a cash drawer, would mean that, if there is no additional money for next year, we already have a problem in 2021. We would not even be able to accept all the requests for repetition. And that's not what we're trying to do with each other. If we take into account possible under-exhaustations in the autumn of the year, we, as cabinet and ministers, always have great reluctance to speculate publicly on this, which is an assumption that, if they do not continue, the problem will only increase in the following calendar year. That has led us, weighing everything up, to be able to promise that all those who have not been honored will be the first to be honored next year. We can vouch for that. We need to adapt the arrangements, but we are prepared to do so. This leaves a little less money for initial applications, but a certain amount of money is still available. We could not now anticipate possible windfalls and so on. Otherwise, we would have written it in our letter. This means that this situation is still fully under discussion and that I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u64	The motion in part No. 215 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u65	The motion in part No. 216 transcends the policy area and even the ministry I am dealing with, because it is for SZW. I will encourage this motion to go to the person responsible for it. That's the new Secretary of State, Mr Van 't Wout. The motion is not on the agenda for the debate we have had, although it does touch the subject. It really is a different policy area. I will direct the motion so that the Secretary of State, I presume, can give an appreciation on that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u66	Yeah, exactly, that was my question. The votes are, if I understand correctly, next Thursday. That was agreed with the arrangement. If you can do it before then, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u67	I will pass that on, and I assume that the report of this sitting will also be passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u68	That's what we're going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u69	Then it will come from two sides, and it will surely reach him. We've been a week since we talked about testing. There is hard work by VWS but also by us to realize what has already been said in previous motions. As you know, this also brings with it a great deal in practical terms. We continue to ensure that teachers can be tested quickly and get their results quickly, in whatever form. If there is more to be said about this, you will, of course, receive information about it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u70	You will receive a question on this from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u71	Since we talked about this, of course, the necessary has happened. Today we heard in the news that there is hardly any more test capacity available. I am very curious to see a brief reflection of the Minister on this. This is a crucial point for education, because in recent days we have been getting more and more reports about closures. How does the Minister view this and what is his advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u72	That is actually a question for the VWS Minister, but we can see if the Minister has a reflection on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u73	It also affects education and I am working on it every day. That is not an exaggeration, because it is a subject that is very much on our mind. I have frequent consultations with my colleague from VWS, who is primarily responsible for testing policy. He does so on behalf of the cabinet; that is collegiality of administration. Our joint commitment is to ensure that a solution is found. You know that he has indicated, also in his communication with the Chamber, that it is also important for him to know how giving priority works for the overall approach to the fight against infection. That's one. The second is that if the GDPDs are going to do this, logistics and organizational should be possible. You can see there's still a lot of pressure on that. The third is that he looks at what is possible in the context of fast lanes, as we call it in bad Dutch. So he's busy in all kinds of ways. I support him in that. Take it from me that we are really on top of that with each other and we can inform you about that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u74	In the meantime, we are getting a lot of questions from schools about what to do. Do they have to wait to do so, with the result that schools close in the event of complaints? Or does the Minister say: then it is no different and we go commercial anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u75	You must have heard in the communication that is being made in the sector itself that this is not really the path we want to go together. We just want to make sure that the regular approach can be used to test quickly and that there are quick results. That's where it's gonna be. That is the route that everyone has at the top of the list and we are working very hard on it. If it is necessary to look at alternatives, we will tell you, but that is not our approach. Moreover, it does not apply only to teachers. It also applies in health care. There are more professions where the loss of people in the professions has considerable consequences, because people are again affected by it. That's something we don't want to last long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you. A question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u77	Of course, this subject is not new. We have all followed the debates with the care spokesmen and the group chairmen, who stress each time that there must be sufficient testing. In fact, we see now that it is going in the wrong direction, because the deficit is only getting worse. Then there is the specific question of schools whether they should take commercial tests or whether they should hope that the cabinet will ensure that there is sufficient capacity in the coming days or weeks. I understand that this minister is not about that, but he might be able to advise schools. Does the Minister advise them to buy tests from commercial suppliers, or does he say that we can manage to ensure that we have that test capacity in order in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u78	My colleague from VWS has been very clear about these commercial tests. He doesn't find it attractive to take that route, also because of questions about the reliability of those tests. It also affects the use of raw materials that we need for the wider story. In short, that is not the path we want to take. Even if that's a discussion, we know that. Our commitment is to ensure that there are sufficient tests, in particular for those who exercise crucial professions, including for education, so that they can be tested as quickly as possible and also get the results quickly. In this way, the time is kept as short as possible when they cannot physically do their work at school. Of course, you can never rule out people coming home for some time after all. But no longer than necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Westerveld, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u80	I would therefore like to ask the Minister specifically whether he has an idea of when there will be more clarity as to whether vital professions can be given priority. I understand that he will get back to it as soon as possible, but what can schools expect to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u81	I do not think it would be wise to speculate on this aloud now, but all efforts are made to provide more information on it as soon as possible. "As soon as possible" means we'll do it immediately when we can do it. Then, of course, we will inform the Chamber as well. That goes without saying. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 217. Last week I promised in general consultation that we are in the process of arranging representation for these pupils as well. In fact, I have already made a commitment to this. I should therefore say that the motion is superfluous. I can also say it a little more friendly: Judgement Room. But the exact content, how we're going to do that, is really still the subject of discussion. I am not going to anticipate that, but we also think it is important for these students to have a place at the tables. Then we want to ensure that it is really a representation of the students and that it is not a single person or a few people who step forward, but do not have that connection. We want to ensure that it is well embedded, that it can be realized structurally and that there is support for it. That's what we're doing. I give the motion judgment Chamber to keep it friendly and come back to it as soon as possible, when there is more to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u82	Judgment Chamber for the motion in part No. 217.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr Kwint himself said that the motion in part No. 218 is a well-known motion. I said the following about this last week. Around primary education we have now arranged the registration well, at least in terms of the systems used to record the failure that is there, when teachers no longer work, sitting at home. It is important that the schools fill that out. We cannot do that with a missive from The Hague, other than asking them, including through their representatives, to do so. It is a little more complicated in secondary education, because it is organized in a very different way and we do not have such a registration for it. However, we are looking at the way in which we get a little more data in order to know more precisely what is happening there. I've already promised all of that. That's what we're doing. I therefore advise against this motion, but we will proceed fully with these registrations. Around primary education there are also a few pilots, including in the major cities, in which the PO Council is also involved. There we are very focused on getting good information to really see what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you. The motion in part No. 218 is not recommended. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u85	I will be brief, because we have indeed had this discussion before. Let me talk specifically about this period of corona. It is still strange that we read stories all day about teachers sitting at home because they cannot be tested, teachers sitting at home with complaints and teachers sitting at home because they belong to a vulnerable group and that we do not know in any way what the consequences are for the number of teaching hours offered to students. Shouldn't we all want to know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u86	Suppose, for example, something happens in schools this week. It's possible. We know that happens in some places. Follow the newspapers and other media. Then the infrastructure for the p.o. in that sense in order that schools can just register that. There's no legal obligation, but a lot of schools do it. We have ensured that the system, once set up by a benevolent teacher, is now simply GDPR proof, I would say. We know it can't be abused. If you had BRIN numbers from schools, even though you weren't in education at all, you could fill it out every day. We've all adapted that. We have also provided support for this. So we're just getting that information. Of course, that will be processed. That is not available from one day to the next. The inspection also keeps a close eye on it and knows that this is an important task. Around the vo it's harder. You also know that this is a very different type of education, with a lot of lessons. We don't have such a registration system for that. Well, we're just trying to see if we can capture that somehow. So we're really working on it. I do not feel that I need motions to move, because we too have the same urge, I would say, to get that information on the table to have a look at it. Mr. Chairman. Last week I made a commitment with regard to the motion on item No. 219. I repeat this commitment. It would be the best thing if the GGD registered it that way, but we would ask them over at the moment. We just talked about the current situation. So we're gonna give this a rest. But we too want more information on this, so we are really working hard. I can tell you that there has been another consultation this week with DUO, the inspection, the PO Council and the VO Council, to ensure that we get a registration system that does not ask the schools in all kinds of ways, but which does provide more information than we now have on the number of infections in schools, for example on clusters. Even though we already have some view of it through the inspection and the dashboards. That's what we're working on. I hope it doesn't take too long before we can draw conclusions and get on with it. I'll inform you immediately. We're really not talking about months, but it has to be clear very quickly. So I advise against this motion, but know that we are fully engaged in this subject. If there's anything I can tell you, I really won't do it tomorrow, if I can do it today, and I'd rather do it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. The motion in part No. 219 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 220 I do not recommend, also in the context of the way in which we are doing tests, as I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u89	The motion in part No. 220 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u90	The motion in part No. 221.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u91	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u92	I was about to go into it just now when Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van den Hul talked about it, but I thought it would come back to my motion. The motion says, "at least until the test capacity is in order." I fully understand that energy is primarily aimed at ensuring sufficient testing capacity and regulating, at the wishes of the Chamber, the giving of priority to care and education staff. In fact, I wouldn't have it any other way. It's a fact that this is not the case right now. The GGD says we can't actually handle it for the whole population right now. This means that schools are now almost forced to take these kinds of steps. It is this or leaving a teacher at home unnecessarily long, which means that no education can be given. Would it not be more reasonable for us to accept schools in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u93	I also read "care institutions" here. So it goes even wider than just schools. You have joined two sectors here. As I just said, I feel restraint when it comes to this subject, because this is not my area. It is also about how my colleague from VWS looks at purchasing commercial tests and the risks associated with them. So our commitment is focused on the regular way in which tests are tested and results are published. At the same time you are going to be responsible for the funding, you are going to promote, so to speak, a path that you see as unpassable. In short, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you. Mr. Heerema, do you have a question about the motion in part No. 220?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u95	I have a question about the final motion. I need an answer to make a proposal to my group. There are two requests in the motion. The first request is a substantially different request from the second one. These two have nothing to do with each other. Can the Minister give a ruling to the Chamber if the second request were to come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u96	Do you mean just research? I just indicated that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u97	I think Mr. Heerema means something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u98	I mean something else. I propose that the second request be removed and that only employers be allowed to apply for a test. What would this Minister's opinion be if this were the only request in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u99	This has to do with the question of how to set up a priority policy. I have indicated that we are now working hard to see if we can achieve that. Of course everything is then looked at, so also the possibility of doing it as reliably as possible. If there is a priority policy for teachers or caregivers, then you also want to make sure that it is people from education or care who go there. Well, that's part of the execution. I don't need any motions for that. As soon as this happens, I think it is in the hands of the VWS Minister to organise this in a good way. By the way, the thoughtfulness is appreciated. I'm saying this not to discourage it. It is very good that we are putting this firmly on the agenda with each other. I have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u100	The motion in part No. 221.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u101	At the motion in part No. 221 I very much disagree that the operative part states that an alternative must be developed. As you know, we have produced a very nice service document, which sets out all the agreements on education. I was pretty pleased about that last week, and I won't do it again now. Name a subject and we have made concrete agreements on it. The entire field of education has signed that. That's really nice work. It states that when there is no physical education, the next option is indeed that there can be distance education. There is also the phrase, which I myself once said first: no one is held to the impossible. You will understand that the teachers' representatives in particular have called for attention to be paid to this. The commitment is therefore: physical education and, if it is not possible, distance education, within all reasonable requirements. I'm not going to make another alternative. I think this is the deal and we should go together for this. I also see, in the short time that the schools are open, that this really is a problem. We are, of course, looking to support the schools so that they can do this properly, but I am not going to come up with another alternative. Then I should also break the service document again. I think that's the wrong way to go. I don't think you want me to. So our commitment is to set up as much support as possible where necessary, so that we do not ask for the impossible. We also have frequent consultations with the entire field of education. This week I sat with them again, not literally, because it goes through a screen. I've had another meeting with them. I will ask them again how they need support, but that is just how we made these agreements. I therefore advise against this motion and I will continue to carry out the appointments made, as stated in the service document.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u102	The motion in part No. 221 is not recommended. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u103	I do not have the impression that the Minister and I think this is fundamentally different. I mentioned just now in my contribution: you cannot expect teachers to teach a class at this time and at the same time give distance learning in a good way. That often takes more than just putting a laptop in the classroom. At the same time, I see that there have been many good initiatives, making it possible for some children to follow distance learning and not for some children. It often depends on whether the parents can afford it or which school the child goes to. I'm looking now at how we can make sure that these kids, who are sitting at home because, for example, they can't go to school because of poor health... How can we guarantee that it doesn't depend on what their parents earn or where they go to school, but that we have an equal basis for all those children?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u104	That means we have to support the schools in that. Before that we have a lot of material from before the summer. We, of course, developed a lot of things immediately when the corona virus broke out and the misery started in March. That was done, among other things, by the SLO. There's a lot of material available. Take a look at www.weeropschool.nl, where you can find a lot. That can now be used again. So we also need to draw schools' attention to the rurally developed material that lies and that can be used. What I can promise you, and what I will inform you about when we can give you more information, is that I will ask you again. I am talking here about the broad field of education; the school leaders and the administrators, but also the teachers and the students. Are there any specific support questions, because what is now missing? We have that goal together. We want all children to be able to continue the continuous learning line. It could be that something might fall out because they're sick or sitting at home. Of course, you can never guarantee that everything goes on completely, but that we can make the connections again, even when the students are at home and we organize distance education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u105	When would you be able to inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u106	Let us agree that if I have had my consultation with the broad field of education again, I will make sure that the results are communicated with the Chamber. We'll have another meeting with them next week. Next week is of course a bit of a separate week for the Chamber and the Cabinet. When I say 'as soon as possible', it is not a doer of death, as is sometimes understood when such words are taken in the mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u107	Perhaps Mrs Westerveld would like to continue her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u108	Not yet, Mr. Chairman. I welcome what the Minister is saying now, but I am looking for a step further. It is true that you cannot keep schools to the impossible, but I think it is a task of all of us, and therefore also of the government. There is an extra responsibility for all of us for a child who cannot go to school and who cannot go to school, because for some reason the school is unable to do so. That's what I'm looking for. Can we in any way guarantee that these students will be offered an alternative if their own school cannot? I recently got the suggestion that there can't be a national online school for these kids for a while. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u109	That's clear. If schools can't handle it then there are the help desks, both for primary and secondary schools. Those are, in a manner of speaking, the guides. If one realizes that one cannot meet what one would like to do and should actually do, then one has to ask for help. Then there is much possible, also in the form of support. The inspection also keeps an eye on it, because the inspection is also well aware that this time is very vulnerable to the achievement of educational time. But the children who are in an unequal situation of opportunity are also vulnerable. Their problems may well get worse. The antennas are really all completely off. If I can give you more information, also in response to my inquiries, I will do the same. The motion by Mrs van den Hul on item No. 222 I am in fact right with Mr Kwint's motion for a decision on registration. I advise this motion, but I have informed you that this is both in the p.o. If in vo is an important subject for us. Especially around the vo it is more difficult, but we are trying to get that information. During the period before the summer, we also launched a few external studies to look very closely at the situation and in particular at children in disadvantaged situations. Of course, for this period we are now looking at how we can get information to us in this way, because the subject you are raising here does not increase the inequality of opportunity that... You know that my heart then beats in the same place as yours, probably even literally when it comes to where it is situated in our bodies. But it also applies to the warmth of this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u110	I actually thought this was a nice conclusion, but at least there is another question from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u111	Let's hope, Mr. Chairman, that our hearts are beating in the same place. I know that the Minister also considers this issue important. We have had an exchange of views on this before, precisely in order to assess whether the current commitment and the financial resources made available for this purpose are sufficient. That is why it is very important for us to have a bit of a timetable along the lines of the Van den Hul/Westerveld motion, in which we are asked to map it. When exactly does the Minister intend to inform us about this inequality of opportunity? This is important if we are to know whether we should take action in the direction of the budget, for example. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr. Chairman. That is a nice little bridge to a question from Mr Beertema. He asked a question last week about the 56 million. That, I think, has been his own calculation. Look, we've made money available to get rid of backlogs. That was broad, by the way, because it was even about 500 million. But for the foundational education there was also an x-amount. This is paid in two instalments. We do not know exactly whether there will be under-exhaustment until the second tranche has ended. That's September 18th, because on that date we have that information. Then we also know if it might be as much of an amount as you mentioned. Maybe it's more or less, but we know that. Then we also know I look forward, because Corona remains among us for a while which new tasks may come towards us. That is what we are going to look at, because we do think it is very important that children are supported as much as possible, even at this difficult time, and that delays do not increase. Of course, we prefer to see them reduced further. I will keep you informed about the use of these funds, but that goes without saying. I know that some of you, including in the first motion, have a particular interest in such amounts. I myself hope that it really ends up in the place where it should end up: the elimination of backlogs and the support of schools. Beautiful things have happened over the past few months, but it would be nice if that could continue, this calendar year off and the next calendar year on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mrs. Van den Hul, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u114	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that we will soon be able to understand the availability of resources, but my question was precisely about the needs. The Minister just replied that he is now monitoring and talking to the sector about the delays, and that he is there on the wrist... Pulse is holding. Not in the wrist; let's not do that. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u115	I'm trying to imagine something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u116	Let's not do that. My question is: can the Minister give an indication when there is a first intermediate position to measure the increasing inequality of opportunity? The minister said we're looking at that. When do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u117	A question about the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u118	The motion consisted of two parts. I have indicated how we are dealing with class failure, also in the direction of Mr Kwint following his motion. As for monitoring the backlog, I'm not gonna pin myself down at a time. That's really something we keep an eye on each other all the time. I'll see if I can tell you if there are any fixed moments when we can come up with intermediates. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u119	The motion in part No. 222 is not recommended. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u120	Voting on the motions tabled will take place on 17 September, on the Thursday this time. I thank the Minister. I thank the MPs and the viewers at home.
