ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u1	The issue now is the examination of the bill 35452, Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality for 2020. I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u3	Good afternoon. Thank you for having the Minister this afternoon. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance appreciates the speed and manner in which the government has worked on the overall covid package and has thus made a safety net for farms in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. It was also good to see that this reduced uncertainty for these sectors, so that many companies have passed the lockdown reasonably. At the same time, we are facing two other crises with unchanged speed. I am thinking here of the biodiversity crisis and the climate crisis. Companies in Dutch agriculture and fisheries will also need a lot of adaptability and investment to cope with these crises. The cabinet has chosen to use the aid packages issued at the very least to keep the companies on track for that new sustainable future. In view of everything that was going on, one can also look at it with some empathy. However, this has chosen to tax companies on the one hand with hundreds of millions, or even more than one billion, of additional credits, while those other crises are coming at them with unabated momentum. GroenLinks would therefore first hear a reflection of the Minister on the learning points for future support packages. How are we going to set them up in such a way or link them to sustainability declarations so that the following aid packages do not reduce the future viability of companies again, exactly in line with, for example, the European aid package that has been announced? Are we going to join that spirit in the future? GroenLinks is also very concerned that the guarantees and loans that have now been granted will soon be hanging around the Dutch industry like a millstone. This is even more likely because, internationally, the transition to a sustainable society is already intensive and many other governments have chosen to link their covid packages to an acceleration in, for example, the climate transition. With this, the Dutch companies, with the narrowly inserted aid packages, are de facto lagging behind in relation to their international competition. This may cause companies to lose their international lead in the long run or to stop joining international demand. GroenLinks is therefore curious whether the government is considering or intends to make the contribution we are making as a society more profitable for the transition to the climate- and nature-friendly and even circular agriculture and nature-related sectors. We also wonder what possibilities the Minister sees in the near future for the aid that has already been provided, not in advance, but in retrospect, if I may put it that way, so I make an explicit distinction between front-end requirements and mitigating and stimulating financial arrangements at the back of the corona credits in order to help companies that want to continue investing in sustainability to continue to accelerate. This can be done, for example, by linking tax benefits to corona credits when a company takes steps or needs additional credits to make it more sustainable and thus prepare for the future. Has the government explored what possibilities there are in this respect, not in the front, but in financial arrangements at the back? If so, what are we going to do? If not, is the government prepared to take steps in that direction? If so, which ones are they? And if not, why not and perhaps one might consider it in the future? These are the points on which I would like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Kluit for her questions on the support given to companies. She's asking for a number of things. It wants to reflect on future support packages and also links them to the EU Restoration Fund. It also asks for the contribution of the aid to the sustainability statements of sectors. Can companies motivate sustainability in the future? And is the cabinet also considering building criteria around sustainability? I would like to thank Mrs Kluit for appealing to me as much as the entire cabinet, because the emergency package has, of course, been a generic package. We have set it up in a very short time with a whole set of measures that could all be used generically. A number of specific measures have been taken for agriculture. Firstly, there are the Guarantee for SME-Agricultural loans. That is a separate arrangement that we as such had to include separately in the entire system of the emergency package. There are also the silent arrangements for fishing, ornamental farming and the potato regime. This has been a number of specific arrangements in the field of agriculture. However, as was the case for all the schemes in the Emergency Package 1.0, the aid was aimed at emptying the acute need, i.e. providing liquidity support at the point where companies could have fallen if they had not had that aid. Both generic and specific measures on agricultural land are not subject to any further conditions because, as has already been said, they were primarily intended to provide liquidity support and to ensure that they would not fall over. Mrs Kluit asks me to reflect on future support packages. It is best to ask the Prime Minister about the latest state of play on the EU Restoration Fund, which is also part of the discussions at European level. I cannot anticipate this until further steps have been taken in the discussion on the recovery fund and the way in which it continues. If you would like to know more about this, I would advise you to discuss it with the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance. Society now contributes, says Mrs Kluit. How can they ask that the contribution also goes towards sustainability? I'd like to break things up here. On the one hand, we have the emergency packages to keep companies alive. On the other hand, we have the generic policy, including from the Cabinet, to ensure that we achieve the objectives of the Climate Agreement. There is a whole set of measures that contribute to this. There is also a whole set of measures that provide a financial, fiscal or other incentive to ensure that this is actually done. I think that is the right balance. We provide emergency support to ensure that companies can continue and create specific sustainability policies, including tools. This has already been established by the Cabinet, including in relation to the Climate Agreement. Mrs Kluit specifically asks what possibilities I see for this. I would like to confine myself somewhat to my own policy area, otherwise we will be standing here this afternoon with all kinds of reflections on other policy areas. For example, I am working on a so-called conversion fund. There's a switch track and a bridge track in there. This is, for example, for agricultural holdings which want to work in a different way, with more sustainable principles or with circular principles, and who want to go up against initial investments for which they are difficult to find a financer. Or if you're dealing with a short-term decline in income because you're just switching, we can also provide for that, so that that transition can actually take place. In broad terms, I am also looking at the approach to sustainable agri-finance. These are all matters that I will send to your Chamber when we have more insight into how we will shape them. I can make that commitment that if I can say more about it, your Chamber will also be informed about it. Whether the cabinet has plans to introduce further measures in the context of sustainability. We're almost back on the eve of Prince's Day. I think this is the last day before we have a meeting here. The next meeting will be on Prinsjesdag shortly and then you will hear what further plans the cabinet has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Kluit, do you want to ask a question in the event of interruption or do you want a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u7	I would first like an interruption and perhaps a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u8	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u9	The Minister tears it apart, the credits granted and the sustainability. What I am thinking is that when an entrepreneur comes to a bank in a moment because he wants to invest in a sustainability package, the bank naturally looks at all the loans that are outstanding. Part of it will be the corona package. In this sense, companies are not as financially sound as they were six months ago. They are extra burdened, by the way, for good reason. That's not a reproach. We should want to avoid these credits being reasons for banks to say: we are not going to invest extra in this company, because then it becomes too unhealthy. My question was, in fact, more specific with regard to the corona credits issued, whether we can still come up with measures under the laws and regulations to ensure that they do not get caught up in the hands of those companies in a year or two years' time when they want to make them more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u10	Again. It is not a matter of limiting it, but I can only respond in the area of the measures that apply to me. I assume that you were here yesterday with colleagues, including those who are broader. So allow me to do it alone on the LNV site. We have discussed, also in response to requests from practice, whether these reimbursement schemes and so on can be stretched to ensure that they do not immediately affect another decision, another investment decision. We have now set longer repayment periods, including in consultation with the banks. This is a guarantee scheme. A guarantee scheme assumes that if a credit cannot be repaid, the Empire guarantees. That is precisely what should give all the certainty to banks at the time of a new investment request. It then looks at the total business case that is what a bank should simply do and if one has any doubts as to whether a company can ultimately repay a particular loan from corona, we have guarantee credits. That means that the Empire simply repays a very large part of that loan when a company itself can no longer repay it. That in itself should be a reason for banks to take that into account. We have, once again, also stretched the deadlines that are attached to it, so that it becomes more flexible for companies to be able to meet that reimbursement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u11	Mrs. Kluit, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u12	I think I'm going to the second term. Then we'll do it in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u13	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I shall give the floor to Mrs Kluit after I have heard the speaking time she has requested. Then I can set the clock. That's three minutes. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kluit for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u14	Mr. Chairman. I understand what the Minister is saying, and at the same time it doesn't take away my concerns. On the one hand, you have the banks that judge, but the companies themselves assess what they invest in. The fact is that on the one hand we have a credit that comes from the covid package and on the other hand a credit that you might need for sustainability measures. We really think it is important that the support given does not lead to a delay in the sustainability transition.. I have one question and one motion, especially to help the Minister to think about it and to work on it. The question is: is the Minister prepared to monitor to what extent these credits still lead to sustainability problems? Will companies indicate that they suffer too much from the covid credits to be able to take steps towards sustainability? And to challenge the minister to do his job, I'd like to table a motion. The President shall: Mr Kluit, Mr Koffeman, Mr Gerkens, Mr Karimi, Mr Van Gurp and Mr Recourt proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the corona crisis has a major impact on the financial health of many companies, with entrepreneurs themselves not being blamed;]] [[Whereas, internationally, other governments do choose to link COOVID-19 support to sustainability conditions, and that this could lead to a competitive disadvantage for the Dutch industry;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the COVID-19 crisis, a biodiversity crisis and a climate crisis are under way, and business will be asked to contribute to (continue to) it;]] [[Whereas the guarantees issued by government (translated into bank loans for individual companies) should not inhibit investment in sustainability measures;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to use the COVID-19 guarantees (and credits) to encourage companies to invest in sustainability measures, including measures to prevent covid credits from becoming a brake on sustainability, and to inform the Chamber shortly after the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35452-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't got the text of the motion in front of me yet, but I've been listening. So if I miss a part, Mrs. Kluit can give me a signal. Mrs Kluit's question, which she also expresses in her motion, is rather broad. She asks me, of course as a member of the cabinet, to monitor companies and also to look at the total of all the schemes that have been there. But let me say that, to my best knowledge, a debate took place here yesterday on the support package designed by the cabinet. That was about the full width of the companies. I am here in particular for my own budget and for the part of the arrangements that are in my budget. In that sense, I think it would have been a little more appropriate to table this motion in the previous debate, because of course it is so broad, about more than just agricultural and horticultural companies and fisheries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u16	Perhaps then I can supplement the motion, which specifically concerns agriculture and horticulture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u17	Okay, well, at least that's cleared up. Now I actually have the text in front of me. Mrs Kluit asked to see how the guarantees and credits granted could still be used to encourage companies to invest in sustainability, and to prevent covid credits from becoming a brake on sustainability. I have just indicated that the generic measures, also as part of the generic package, really see, and still see, acute liquidity support. In doing so, we want to ensure that companies do not fall over and that they can actually go through the very healthy business. The cabinet has not previously attached any sustainability conditions to this either. That doesn't mean that the cabinet doesn't think sustainability is important. We have our own, regular policies and regular instruments for this, which we are still developing further. I just mentioned that, too. I mentioned, among other things, the conversion fund. I would not want to link that link between what has already been given to support and what we want to do about sustainability in the future. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u18	Thank you, Minister. I'll take a look at Mrs. Kluit. I understand she wishes to amend or amend her motion. Can she let us know the literal text of the amended motion here in the event of interruption? If no, a third time limit may have to be requested after the recess for the tabling of an amended motion. That choice is hers. But we do need the literal text of the amended motion, so go ahead. You're already talking, but I can't hear you. It is also not customary to talk through the room. If you wish to amend the motion, we would like to hear the exact text from you. Unless there's a third deadline for changing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u19	I suggest that we amend the motion at the beginning and that everything that comes next follows from that. So it will be: 'the financial health of many farms in the agricultural and fisheries sectors'. I think that's what you mean when you tell me to indicate how I intend to amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u20	You must literally state what the text of the amended motion is. Otherwise, we can't move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u21	The first sentence of the motion is amended. The first sentence will then be: "whereas the corona crisis has a major impact on the financial health of many farms in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, where entrepreneurs themselves are not blamed." I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Yes, I see that everywhere there is talk of companies, we are talking about companies that are covered by the budget we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u22	Only the operative part of your motion will still be about companies in general. Is that the point? Because you are considering something about this sector, but the operative part is about encouraging all companies to invest. Is that the intention, or do you also want to add that it is about companies in this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u23	I was just asking if, if we adjust the beginning, anything that comes after, including the operative part...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u24	I understand. But you asked the Minister. You're dealing with me now. I need to know very clearly to the other Members, because the motion will be put to the vote shortly, exactly how your motion is worded. This must also be clear from the Acts of this meeting. Either we go to a third term in which you submit an amended motion, and that will then be after the recess or tonight late, or you will again clearly show which textual change you want. We cannot allow that to be unclear, not even out of respect for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u25	I will try again and I would like to hear from you whether it is clear enough: 'whereas the corona crisis has a major impact on the financial health of many farms in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, where entrepreneurs themselves are not blamed'. I hear the President say a little bit that it may also have to be adjusted in the operative part itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u26	The operative is the call, the core of the motion. So if it's not in the operative part, it's not him...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u27	Then we could say that we add the same thing to the first indent in the operative part: 'to come up with a plan on how COOVID-19 guarantees and credits can be used in the coming period to encourage farms in the agricultural and fisheries sectors to invest in sustainability measures'. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u28	That's okay. If the Members can agree to this amended motion... This is unusual, so please in a third term from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-13.u29	I'm here to deal with the bill. I'm gonna wait until Mrs. Kluit gets back in. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill at the end of the sitting tonight. I also propose that we vote on the amended motion this evening. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes, pending the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
