ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment back to the First Chamber. The subject is now the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35473, the third incidental supplementary budget on the Emergency Jobs Package and the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your questions in the first term. I will answer the questions about the NOW, education and the TOFA, and the Secretary of State on the Tozo and poverty and debt policy. After a general introduction I go first on the NOW, then on education, then on TOFA and then on a set of other and also a future view. A number of questions have been asked about this: what are we going to do in the third potential package? But I will first give a brief general introduction. I try to do it as quickly as possible, given the time and the time, but carefully, of course, because that is how you know me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u5	It is, of course, remarkable to see that in March we still had historically low unemployment of 2.9% and that in a very short period of time you see the deterioration and the influx into the WW and the assistance, especially of young people and people with a flexible contract affected by the initial effects of the corona crisis. You can also see that the number of hours worked has fallen significantly and that this is largely supported by the NOW scheme. I have just said in the other debate that 135 000 companies with EUR 10 billion in three months are supported for 2.5 million employees. Those are, of course, huge amounts of support. We now see that we have entered a new phase. The original idea was that recovery in a V-shape would be one of the possibilities, but we have slowly stepped away from it. We see that it takes longer and that it is more likely that it does not just return to the old level, but that it takes a longer period before the recovery really continues. Hence also that we have set up emergency package 2.0. Mr Van Pareren asked what the trend is on the labour market. The honest answer is: we don't really know that. There are long-term trends of cramped, demographic change, ageing and also structural tightness. We don't know yet what the permanent effect of the corona crisis will be. We can see that some sectors are being hit harder, such as catering and retailing, but are also being hit more structuralally. Think about the travel industry and the airlines. These are more structuralally affected by this crisis than other sectors, while supermarkets achieve extra turnover. It's still very early. It was only on 16 March that we closed the catering business that evening and also closed a lot of retail businesses. There is a great deal of uncertainty in all these figures and these scenarios. The Central Planning Bureau has calculated four scenarios for the coming year. In a scenario, we are, as it were, back above Jan within a year, but in another scenario on unemployment of 10%. So the uncertainty in that is enormous. We will have to keep a finger on the wrist to monitor that and jump in if there is a need. That is also the reason why this is a short preview why we have not said so much about whether there is a package 3.0, yes or no. Only in mid-August with the figures of the Central Planning Bureau do we have a feeling: what exactly will happen in the second quarter of this year? Only then can we have a sense of the impact on economic activity and employment. What are we gonna do? Should we do a third package or should we do it more targeted? Last week, in the Lower House, the Minister of Finance focused on the "longer and thinner" spring note, i.e. on sectors which have been forced to close longer. Think of disco's and nightclubs, for example. Or do you have to think about another form of support? We're gonna keep a finger on the wrist. Let's see what it takes. I'll come back to that in a little bit more detail. That is why we also need to follow a little bit what is happening and is happening in the real economy, so that you can respond to it with the emergency packages. The last question in the introduction was from Mr Ester on the Joseph economy. Your colleague Bruins across the street asked the same question. That's probably a coincidence. Yeah, really? I think that's funny. It will not surprise you: the Netherlands stood and stands for it with a very low public debt. We had a surplus in the budget and very low unemployment. That means you can take a punch. So all the criticism of the past few years that the Dutch state is spending too little and is too economical, I think, is now a bit of a lie. We are even more capable than other Member States of the European Union of taking such a blow. And that doesn't make us restless either. The Minister of Finance sent us an overview last Saturday. At the end of this year, we are expected to reach a debt ratio just above 60%. Historically, that's a very serious deterioration. The aim is, of course, to maintain employment, jobs, the economy and hence the income position of people. That is, I think, well-spent money in such an uncertain period as this corona time anyway, in which a lot of people do not know what is happening in terms of public health and not in terms of jobs and income. That's another lesson for the future: fix the roof when the sun shines. Then I'm going to the NOW, in high-speed train. We have adjusted the NOW 2.0 compared to NOW 1.0. Along three lines, the scheme is also more tailored to the change and duration of the corona crisis. Firstly, we have added the link to training, precisely from the point of view of: how can we ensure that people can be helped from one sector to another if there is structural job losses in a particular sector? How can we ensure "from work to work"? How can we ensure that self-employed people can use the time they have no assignments usefully to invest in their own earning capacity, in their own human capital? That's one. Two. We also believe that companies should adapt to economic realities. We had the firing ticket in the first package. That actually means that you get a substantial extra discount if people are fired for business reasons. We lowered that discount. Something has replaced that, as Mrs Sent said. In the case of larger companies, consultation with the trade union movement must take place. I think that's right. We have also had signals in advance that companies said: if this rule is not amended, we are not going to apply for NOW 2.0 anymore, because then the risk is too high that we will have to pay a fine. We would not be able to achieve the objective of this regulation, which is to preserve employment, and we, as a cabinet, felt that this was undesirable. That's why we changed the arrangement. The third adjustment, on which a question has just been asked, is as follows. Companies that have applied for NOW grant may not pay bonuses or dividends or purchase their own shares during the period of grant. Mr Van Gurp said that he saw all kinds of different figures and asked what the right figure is: 45% or 90%? I think that's just a mix-up. 90% is about the number of companies that are small companies. That's what I said in the Lower House. A total of 125,000 companies are SMEs, of which more than 100,000 are SMEs. If you look at the wage bill or the subsidy amount, then a larger proportion of the subsidy amount goes to the large companies, simply because they employ more employees. In large companies where the wage bill is higher, the subsidy amount is also higher. In the debate and in response to Parliament's questions, I indicated that 45% of the first advance payments were made to small employers, up to 50 employees. This is indeed a different definition than 250 employees in SMEs. 30% of the first advance goes to companies with more than 250 employees. Then you can see that it is quite unevenly distributed and that the number of large companies with many employees also get a large part of the subsidy. To put it more simply, let me give you another example. We have also indicated which companies should submit an audit report for this NOW grant. At a relatively high threshold of €125,000 subsidy, I say not to mention 66% of the subsidy amount. It is the larger companies that are involved. That's the reason for all the different numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u6	Mr Van Grup, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u7	A brief enlightening question above all, because I still do not quite understand it. Initially, after the debate in the House of Representatives, we had the impression that most of the money came from small and medium-sized enterprises, to put it simply. Is that correct or, as I understand it from the answer to the question, has 45% or, even more, 55% reached companies with 50 or more employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u8	70% of the amount has been paid to employers up to 250 employees. This is traditionally seen as small and medium-sized enterprises. The middle company has up to 250 employees. So that's the 70%. The remaining 30% goes to the larger companies, the companies with more than 250 employees. More specifically, this 45% was about really smaller employers, namely up to 50 employees. That's another subset of that 70%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u9	One more time. I'm good with numbers, but you're better with numbers. I believe that. Yet one more time: how does this relate to the figures you presented earlier in the debate with the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u10	It concerns the number of companies, not the sum of the subsidy, the sum of the wage subsidy, but the number of companies. Because there are a huge number of companies with five, ten, fifteen employees compared to the number of companies with thousands of employees. In that context, we know that KLM has also applied for the NOW. It has 25,000 employees. It therefore weighs more heavily in this division.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u11	I have HBS-A. So I'm not so good at math, but in logic I might be a little better. Has the fact that such a large proportion of these billions goes to large companies still led to a rethink within the cabinet in the sense of: should we perhaps think a little more about stopping these very large companies, which are supposed to have their pants themselves and therefore some buffers, rather than giving subsidies loans or something else? Has there been any discussion about this when the cabinet got the figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u12	Not like this. Why? The NOW grant is a wage cost subsidy based on turnover loss. Whatever the size of your company, it's about loss of revenue. Because the solvency figures, that is, the buffers, apply to all companies in the Dutch economy. However, the larger the companies we are talking about, we are talking about IHC, and I also mention a company like KLM, and specific state aid is required, which is also subject to other and broader requirements. Think about sustainability and all kinds of additional requirements, which Mr Hoekstra and Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen have also made to KLM. But this scheme is really aimed at all companies that have made at least 20% turnover losses, want to keep people in service and so want to pay the wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u13	I was aware of that. But the NOW isn't something we've had in the closet for years. That is a completely new invention of the cabinet. The cabinet has been praised for this, but that it is linked to turnover has been a choice. The discussion has also been about whether you should give better loans or subsidies from the outset. It has been decided, but in this Chamber of review my question was whether the cabinet has not reconsidered in the sense of: if those figures now show that a large proportion of companies are going to large companies, we should deal with that money in a different way. It's all tax money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u14	Two things. The first point is that I think there is a mistake of thought. If you were to say to larger companies that they can only receive aid in the form of a loan and not through wage costs subsidies, those big companies would rather say: then I am going to fire people. The purpose of this scheme was precisely to keep workers employed. So I think that's a mistake. The second element is that 70% of the total subsidy goes to companies with less than 250 employees. This is traditionally the case with small and medium-sized enterprises. These are both elements plus the third step: as a larger company specifically asks for state aid, whether that is the example of IHC or KLM's example, there will be additional conditions and loans. At KLM, for example, they are loans and not gifts. The NOW is a gift, all with the aim of maintaining employment in the company and in our economy. Because if it's going to be loans, I can tell you that there's gonna be firings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mr. Kox, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u16	Whether I'm making a mistake in my mind wasn't the issue. The question was whether the cabinet had thought about it, because this Chamber and the other Chamber should almost blindly say yes to the 15 billion. Then we can at least count on the cabinet to look into this for us and to update us on it. The figures we get now are different from the ones we had at first. I would think that the cabinet, which has almost blind support from Parliament, has thought about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u17	Honestly, I really don't understand this reasoning. With regard to Mr Van Gurp, who asks what the difference is, I am trying to make it clear that the largest number of companies are mainly SMEs. If you look at the wage bill, and with that, the subsidy amount has gone a bit far, but it is still more than 70% focused on SMEs. The third was whether the cabinet considered making it a loan. Yeah, we've considered that, but the purpose of this arrangement is job retention. If you did that in the form of loans, there would be a great incentive to fire people anyway, and we do not want that. The fourth step is that, of course, there are conditions when it comes to companies that are actually specifically asking for state aid. These are conditions on sustainability, reforms and adjustments to the new reality. The loans must also be repaid with a certain premium on top of that. So sure, that's what's been thought about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u18	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mrs Sent asked whether the number of redundancies that are now being made for business reasons would be monitored. Yeah, we'll keep track of that through the Collaborative Dismissal Act. Companies applying for more than 20 dismissals are kept under that law. It keeps track of the UWV's employment legal service. So we're gonna keep an eye on this. In fact, to your colleague in the Lower House, Mr Asscher, I have promised that we will also monitor whether 19 people are being fired everywhere, so that they are being abused. So we keep an eye on both elements. I also sent a letter to the House of Representatives two or three weeks ago. Mr Essers asked about the payrollers. They have been advised to make arrangements among themselves. Is that effective in practice? That has indeed been complicated, because payrollers and also temporary employment agencies often have a contract with the company. As long as the contract is paid, there is therefore no loss of revenue. If you don't lose sales, you're not eligible for the NOW. The borrowers are in principle bound by the contracts and agreements they have made with the payroll company. That is why the cabinet has said: make agreements between themselves in all reasonable terms, so that you can apply for both aid if turnover falls. It is almost impossible to apply a one-size-fits-all approach to this because it is really about specific contracts and specific circumstances for which companies make these agreements. So we really need to connect to the individual situation of the company or the user. To be honest, I do not have a concrete view of what kind of agreements are being made now. I do know that about 1,400 temporary employment agencies have also applied for NOW. They were faced with a higher fall in turnover and thus also benefited from the NOW. At payroll we do not have that, because those companies are not separately registered in some sort of large class in the administration. They are spread throughout all sectors. Mr Essers also asked about the cost-plus approach, so if a company's turnover is determined by the costs incurred plus a premium for those costs. It is suitable to qualify for the NOW. A decrease in turnover is often due to the partial reduction of internal questions within a group. It will then be transferred to the working company or part of the group. The level of cost-plus is irrelevant, because the fall in turnover is percentage. That can therefore also be eligible for the NOW. Mr Essers also asked about enforcement. In the written set, I have gone into this in detail. I have sent the various enforcement instruments we have used to your Chamber. But indeed, I very much agree with Mr Essers that it is about finding a balance between service provision and enforcement. We have also seen examples in the recent past where the balance was completely wrong. Think of the IRS and the child care allowance. On the other hand, I myself had a discussion about the export of the WW benefits. This balance is really a broader focus among all the implementation organisations within the state service. How do you do that in a good way? How do you prevent one from being held in one direction by incidents and then find out four years later that the other side is actually a bit forgotten. That is a very valid point. We certainly pay attention to this in setting up all these enforcement instruments. Mr Kox asked to show the ban on bonuses and dividends by 2021. Where's Mr. Kox? There's Mr. Kox. We have brought it into line with the moment of grant, so the NOW actually applies for 2020, from March to September. It has been agreed that the ban on bonus and dividend payments will cover the year 2020. This is only often the case when the annual figures are set in 2021, so up to that period the ban on dividends, bonuses and the purchase of own shares applies. In doing so, we are giving effect to the Jetten motion. We also had a little debate in the House of Representatives on whether this should not be extended. That is also legally complicated, because then you will no longer have a relationship with the grant you have given. So this is the way we've been expressing that Jetten motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u20	There has indeed been talk in the Lower House of a widely adopted motion for a resolution by Mr Jetten. And the minister gave this scary interpretation to this motion, but almost half of the House of Representatives disagreed, and said: no, it must be 2021. The question is also: that it is legally complicated, can it sometimes outweigh the signal given to the Dutch people, who will have to pay 15 billion in one way or another through this legislation in order to make all this possible? It is the signal of: yes, citizens, we are also careful not to get applicants for subsidies or those who enjoy this subsidy who continue with bonuses or dividends themselves, so they can choose for themselves. Has the government also considered that we should also do something to get the people involved in these harsh times?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u21	In fact, Mr Van Weyenberg also asked me in the House of Representatives by interrupting: what does the Minister think of this, if bonuses and dividends are paid directly; do you also have a moral judgment on this? Yes, I did, and that's what I said in the House of Representatives. What I find complicated is that we have a subsidy scheme covering 2020. Then I think it is very clear and very clear that in that year, also because of the stability of the company and also the keeping in house of cash to survive this difficult time, it is quite right that you do not pay bonuses, and no dividends. We have continued to do so until 2021, namely the shareholders' meeting, where that needs to be established. Much further would lead to questions of proportionality, but that is independent of the moral judgment. But then we will have another discussion in 2021, I think. In fact, we have already seen this in society, where there has been a debate on companies that have applied for aid and have previously applied for other instruments. But it must be proportionate and enforceable. And if this were to apply to 2021, you would not be able to reach a settlement until 2022, and that also leads to uncertainty and hassle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u22	Kox a short last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u23	It's complicated; but yes, I'm not a minister. The minister is the minister, so he can't complain that it's complicated. The question is this: if the Minister says 'I am making a moral appeal to those people who intend to distribute bonuses while they are also asking for subsidies', then that is a little too thin for a lot of people in society and for a large part of Parliament. So can the Minister give it some thought and, despite his interpretation that it would be very difficult, still consider that it might be worth doing what a large part of the parliament and a large part of the population actually wants? Then the Minister increases those difficulties on the bargain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u24	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u25	This debate is not only held here, but also in the House of Representatives. We have made a choice here, both in the NOW regulation and in the Tax Administration; Secretary of State Vijlbrief has also sent a separate letter to the Parliament when it comes to the other part of the Jetten motion. We believe that this is proportionate and feasible. That was ultimately also the choice of the cabinet, to fill it out in this way. And I don't think there's even been a motion on that in the House of Representatives. Oh, yeah? But that motion didn't make it, so there's no majority for that. Also because the majority of the House of Representatives was convinced that my argument was convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u26	Mr. Kox, given the time, I'd like to ask you to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u27	My plea today, as well as the first package, was that if this government is no longer the government of the coalition agreement, but a government that wants broad support in this Chamber, it is not weak and undemocratic at all to look at it. Then you shouldn't say: that motion was rejected in the House of Representatives. No, rethink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u28	Mr President, with all due respect to Mr Kox I appreciate him very much, but frankly, I think this is a little bit rusty. Firstly, the Jetten motion has been broadly signed in the Lower House. And rightly so. I understand that moral signal very well. By the way, this also applies, I say to Mrs Sent... Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party asked if I could come up with something for people with a flexible contract. That is what the TOFA has come out of, also as a signal to the wider political support needed in such a time of crisis. I have been in close contact with the trade union movement and employers' organizations about the permanent burden, but also about the dismissal penalty and what instruments we can create for the trade union movement to play a role in companies which, for whatever reason, want to reorganise. I listened very carefully to the motions and the signals, including those from the opposition. I am very pleased with the 150 seats that have approved this broad package. I'm really happy about that, but that doesn't mean I have to take over everything. Mr Jetten's motion, along with Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen, was intended precisely to give substance to this. That is what we have done with this package. Then you can still argue about whether you need to go one step further. I think that's legitimate. I explained why we chose 2020, with a walk-through until the shareholders' meeting in 2021. That is the interpretation of the Jetten cum suis motion, which is a cooperation between all the parties on the other side on this point. I'll go on with it, too, I'll tell Mr. Kox. I'll continue my search for broad support. I am listening very carefully, including the opposition's motions, to see how we can tackle this together, because I think that has added value. I'm very happy with the 150-0 for the second package. It didn't look like that a week before. I can tell you a lot about education, but I'm gonna keep it short. In the previous debate, Mr Crone of the Labour Party asked the Minister for Economic Affairs how this fits into the broader policy of lifelong development and training policy. We now have the STEP budget and the SLIM budget for the SME learning culture. After the summer, the House of Representatives will receive a copy of this letter to your Chamber of Representatives, a letter containing the roadmap for a lifetime for the coming years. We are going to invest heavily in this: EUR 200 million for the STAP budget, just for industrial jars. But that is the "developing a lifelong" policy. We also have the following policy. How can we at UWV or municipalities ensure that people who are on long-term benefits have the opportunity to find a job through a training course? This is a policy of standing, which is all the more important in these times. In addition, for the second tranche of the emergency package, we have released an additional 50 million to boost a few things. One is the development advice. Why? We experimented with the development advice last year. People who actually want to go to another sector or job, but do not know exactly what they can do, or do not know exactly where they want to go, have made use of development advice. We have now made the budget available for 20,000 development advice. That's very much appreciated by people. People are helped by the question: where, in what sector, am I going to find a job? That's part one. Part two are the online training activities supported by it. But, of course, the 50 million is not the solution to the training we have in the years to come. It takes a lot more than that. The R&D funds from the letter from the Labour Foundation, which Mr Ester mentioned, should also contribute to this. I also have discussions with the social partners about this: how can we make better use of it, including intersectorally, from one sector to another, to give concrete substance to lifelong development? Finally, on the other hand, two motions were adopted in the course of the debate on the package, which highlight the importance of additional investment in retraining and from work to work. That is the Van Weyenberg/Heerma motion and the Van Brenn motion, of 50PLUS. Mrs Van Brenk also proposed a delta plan. They've been hired. We take this into account in the development of the plans for the coming period, because training is not just a crisis measure... I agree with Mr Esters, who said this in the first term: in the short term, it is not going to help people directly to get a job. It is primarily investing in the long-term employability and the quality of human capital. That's why it's so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u29	We have a Mr. Essers and a Mr. Ester, but no Esters. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u30	Ester and Essers, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u31	They're both excellent members of the First Chamber. I understand very well what the Minister is saying, but it's all more or less small things that don't quite put the story together yet. I would like to challenge the cabinet to do much more on this very important point. It's not just a bit of a tutoring, a little class here and a little advice there. It's really about upgrading our workforce. That is not just for this crisis. The new era, the new labour market, must be inspired by this. I would ask you that, with all due respect for what you do. There's a lot of money on it, too. I don't care about the 50 million either. I'm talking about a bigger plan of attack. If you can promise me that you'd like to take that with you in the run-up to Princess' Day, I'm more satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u32	I'd like to give my word on that, but I'd also like to embezzle it wider. I therefore also said: after the summer I come with a letter with Mrs Van Engelshoven, the Minister for Education, on the wider lifelong learning policy. We're building now. One of the key building blocks is the STEP budget. That budget is actually an individual learning budget. I hear very well, from the Borstlap Committee, last week from the platforms on the future of the labour market or from the WRR report, that the importance of training is only increasing in this labour market. I hear that very well. At the same time, this crisis is coming over us. A number of specific requests have also been made by Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Heerma. I'm taking it with me, even this summer, in my conversations with the social partners, to give it direction Prinsjesdag. However, I very much agree with Mr Ester that this is an important building block for the future of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u33	Mr Ester, one short last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u34	I am very pleased with the Minister's answer. One more comment, with a question linked to it. We have been talking about lifelong learning in the Netherlands for twenty years. We can't do that every time: we're working on it. There must be a huge blow on that file in order to train the workforce properly. In the end, that is the best protection against a crisis. I'd like to give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u35	It's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u36	I very much agree. Higher educated people will find their way, especially with individual jars. Think of De Baak and that kind of training institutions. The biggest challenge is: how are we going to challenge professionals, who often have an aversion to school banks, to continue developing their craftsmanship, their skills in the changing labour market? We need support structures for that. It's getting better, even though we've been talking about it for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u37	We're an hour behind. Can I ask Members to keep their replies to the replies as far as possible for their own second term, as far as is reasonably possible? Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u38	Our children will only be unemployed or become unemployed because they know for sure that the organization or the company where they work the prospect of keeping their jobs is constantly falling. Our oldest grandson just passed the gymnasium. Then you talk to a lot of kids and their parents. They hear from others again how difficult it is in a number of sectors. For this reason, in my speech, I spoke exclusively about training for our young people and the older workers. You'll know now that you're unemployed, or that you have a very good chance of becoming one. If you are in the WW, you can apply, but if there are no jobs in your sector or the sector you should go to, you will have to proceed very quickly to retraining or further training.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u39	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u40	Mr President, this is my first interruption and also the last one, I think. I pointed out that, in the previous crisis, the cabinet came at 600 million, but far too late. I have the impression that the Minister shares this in response to Mr Ester's interruption, but my concern is that we wait too long and only know a little more about it at Princess Day in September, when you have to roll out that programme now. It is not a question of having a lot of money right now. It must be a one-off, occasional fund. Mrs. Van Brenk mentioned 500 million. I'm more modest in this room...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u41	I'm really gonna interrupt you right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u42	Is the Minister prepared to get that off the ground quickly because they are intensive...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u43	Mr. Van Rooijen, it's not like first interruptions can last longer than later. The Rules of Procedure state that interruptions may be authorised and are intended for brief supplementary questions. The policy response to the government's term takes place in the second term. So it is not reasonable to say: it is my first interruption and it may take three times as long. The Minister now has the floor to respond to your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u44	This is precisely why we have already decided in the emergency package 2.0, actually two and a half months after the outbreak of the crisis, to make the 50 million available, precisely to prevent you from finding out that you have not acted enough. I also said just now that it is intended for online activities and development advice, but in fact it is my goal and my ambition to detach the big money in R&D funds and collective agreements from social partners to invest in them. So I think Mr Van Rooijen and I agree on the direction. Only, it must also be feasible, sensible and successful, because there are also several objectives that are linked to these instruments. The budget at the UWV or at the municipalities for people who are long-term unemployed to retrain them to a new job is another instrument that covers retraining, retraining and retraining from one sector to another. Mr Van Rooijen agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u45	Mr Van Rooijen for his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u46	I thank the Minister. I am, of course, particularly concerned with the transition from one sector to another, and this obviously requires enormous retraining. Once again, my concern is that, with all the willingness of the Minister and the Cabinet to pay attention to it, we are losing a lot of time because it may not be until September/October that a new measure will have to be rolled out. Can the Minister not promise that in the next two or three months in this review period everything will be done to give that training programme a great start at least in September?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u47	As you have read in my letter on the deal I made with the social partners on the dismissal penalty and on the permanent burden relief, we are now discussing the work agenda. At the request of the trade union movement, training and work-to-work guidance have been included in this work agenda as themes. So that's what we're talking about right now. Hopefully we will announce at Prince's Day how we will give this concrete hands and feet and shape. And again, I also think that social partners themselves with R&D funds and collective agreements can contribute to helping people who lose their jobs in a sector from work to work. I'll come back to Prince's Day on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u48	Mr Van Rooijen, the third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u49	Mr President, I was also present at the previous debate and I have seen that several speakers have been interrupting for a very long time. I won't mention any names, but I'd like to point it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u50	Then Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is also good that Mr Ester has been given a commitment on what is happening with retraining, retraining and lifelong learning. The concern I have with that is that it is very much viewed from the individual. It is also very important to look at where the great needs lie, including in the public sector, especially care and education. As part of this commitment, will the Minister also pay attention to where public sector gaps exist and to what extent they can be filled by the unemployment that is now being created?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u52	Just peeling off. Level 1: Ms Sap, the ESC, various advisory bodies have said that people in that long-term labour market should also have more control over their own development life, develop a lifetime. So you have to have individual instruments and your own direction. Secondly, we note that not all people do so on their own. People who, for example, have a nasty association with school, don't help with their own jar. So you're gonna have to have a support structure. This can be done either through the R&D Fund or through sectoral initiatives to help those people. The third level is sectoral retraining, retraining and retraining. You can see that in the sectors that are shrinking and where there is employment, so to speak, there are more and more examples where R & D funds are being used to ask: where can I guide people? Education and health are, of course, attractive sectors for this. The job opportunity is very big there. The honesty is to say that not everyone with an LTS degree is eligible to become a teacher. We have to be honest with each other in that too. But the positive thing is that progress is now being made in all these three areas, both in terms of their own direction and in terms of support structures and in terms of switching from one sector to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u53	Thank you, Minister. I think we're gonna leave it at that. Then I'll go to the Secretary of State, or weren't you at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u54	No, I wasn't at the end yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u55	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u56	I can conclude very briefly, if you'd like to skip all the questions. Very briefly about the TOFA. This concerns the regulation on which Mr Gijs van Dijk has tabled a motion in the House of Representatives. I've gone through a very extensive process, with six different variants, about what's feasible and what would help. I have also, in consultation with the House of Representatives, set the thresholds and the level of benefits, precisely in order to help the people who threatened to fall between shore and ship. The vast majority of people who had a flex contract and were fired were young people under 25 years of age. A very large part of that is living at home. So it's schoolchildren and students. The TOFA is really focused on that, as a kind of compensation for that. It does not deserve the beauty prize and it is not the most beautiful scheme, but it really is a short-term compensation. The cabinet doesn't intend to extend it. Why not? Because it is going to last longer than the short-term WW benefit. The question about this short-term WW benefit has been asked whether we are going to extend it. Mrs. Sent asked me to. Frankly, this is not feasible in the short term. This requires either a system adjustment or a manual execution of the WW. The UWV just can't handle that right now. That is somewhat unsatisfactory. That's what I noticed in the House of Representatives. But that is the reality. The UWV now performs both the NOW and the TOFA and the regular WW. It's just a lot right now, because a lot of people are now reporting to UWV, companies and employees, for support. So I just can't live up to that. I'll take a few questions together. So what's the sequel? In the letter I sent to the Lower House, and in a copy also to you, about the agreements made with the social partners, we announced a working agenda. In this work agenda, we focus on training, work-by-work arrangements and part-time work arrangements. This is part-time WW because part of the trade unions and employers asked for a more structural arrangement, which can cope with cyclical fluctuations. We are now in consultation with UWV about this: what kind of design can that have and for what purpose exactly is that? This will then be a kind of alternative to the current NOW regime. The tricky thing is that the NOW scheme is actually outside the systems of the WW at the moment. Such a part-time WW, or rather the reduction in working time we used to have, must be incorporated into the system in order to establish a relationship with the rights of individual workers. This is not possible in the short term, because it requires a very complicated IT operation and a very complicated conversion operation. So that is not going to work in the short term. Apart from that, I think it's our responsibility to keep thinking. In which sectors should the aid be extended? Under what conditions is that? So what are we going to do with additional accompanying policies in terms of training? What about guiding work to work? We are having this conversation with social partners this summer, so that we can come to Princess Day with an answer for the period after 1 October. I promised the House of Representatives that I would inform the Chamber in good time if the contours were clear. Then we can have the debate on that too. I also don't know if we can wait until Princess Day, because the feasibility is really an issue. I'm really only going to do things that can be done by the UWV or the SVB. It also takes into account the discussion on the reports of the Scientific Council for Government Policy and Borstlap, as you can also read in that letter. This is indeed about the long-term structure of the Dutch labour market: how can we strengthen it? I don't know how far we're gonna get and how far the ambitions reach. It is a complicated discussion. Often it is about one side of the coin, namely the flex side. But there is also another side of the coin, namely the fixed side. Furthermore, it is about the position ofzzp'ers. It is a complex and lengthy discussion. As you know, I have taken step one in balance with the Labour Market Act. We are also working on thezzp legislation to take step two, for example with the web module. It is my ambition to take steps in this regard as well. I can't wait to see if that's gonna work. That was my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u57	Thank you, Minister. I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you for the questions that your Chamber has put in dealing with this supplementary budget. I would like to talk to your Chamber about an important part of that package, namely the support package for the self-employed. I have already mentioned in this Chamber and on the other side that the emergency package issued by the government is based on measures taken in the context of public health. These measures had really great proportions and therefore great economic consequences, but economic consequences of such an order that you cannot simply say: you can stand up to this as against a regular entrepreneurial risk. Jobs are at stake and companies are at stake; this legitimizes the emergency package. The group of self-employed people for which this scheme, the Tozo, was designed, are often people who lost their jobs from one day to the next, lost their jobs and were in great uncertainty. For many of them in sectors where reality has not yet returned to the way it was before, this means that it is still extremely difficult and that we are therefore also asking a great deal of the creativity and adaptability of self-employed people. It is estimated that 374.000 applications have been made for the first version of the Tozo. For Tozo 2 there are now many tens of thousands of applications. Often these are renewal applications. Within the two schemes known to the Tozo, it is mainly about income support. As you know, the Tozo is based on the self-employed assistance decision. That again finds its basis in the Participation Act. It also provides a framework for the definition of the target group and for the level of support. When Tozo 1 was developed, we weighed very heavily that we had to make an arrangement that we could quickly introduce. This was also the reason why Tozo 1 had no partner test, no capital test and no test on the viability of the company. With Tozo 2, however, a partner income test has been added, by means of a statement accompanying the application. I will say more about it later on in connection with the questions that Mr Kox has also asked. You have had several debates today. The Tozo is not the only way to support self-employed entrepreneurs. There are also fixed charges. There are also a number of measures in the tax field and the measure on which the Minister had an exchange of views with you: the NOW. Let me also say here what I said in the House of Representatives. I just said it very implicitly. When this crisis took its course, we looked for a legal framework, an arrangement, a kind of vehicle, you could almost say that we could use it to answer pressing questions from independent entrepreneurs as soon as possible. This means that no optimal situation has emerged. You know me: I love 'the system is there for the people and not the other way around'. With this regulation, we should say 'no' more often, including questions that expose an injustice or a subject that you think is not right, you would like to do this differently. This also affects the issues raised today by your Members of Parliament, such as the young self-employed. You can fly it from the entrepreneur who says: it doesn't matter whether I'm 20 or 55; I need that support; I also contribute. That's a sense of injustice I can very much relate to. But we have limitations at this stage. We are now using an arrangement as a vehicle to respond to the crisis. This scheme is embedded in the Participation Act, which has standards for people above and below 21 years of age. Under the age of 21, you're supposed to be able to go to your parents, according to the law. They have a maintenance obligation until their children become 21. It does not mean that there is nothing for people under 21 who no longer have parents who can fulfil that maintenance obligation. At that time, people can turn to the municipality and call for special assistance. The Minister has already referred to the motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg who asked us to consult the social partners on the position of young employers. Mrs Sent asked whether this youth standard is not age discrimination. Since this standard is based on the Participation Act, because it is a distinction based on reasonable and objective justification, there is no age discrimination in the government's view. This also has to do with the legal provision that there is a maintenance obligation for parents. If the young person turns 21, the maintenance obligation will expire and the assistance will be increased. In addition, as I have just said, there is the route of special assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u59	I do not have a question on age discrimination, but on an earlier point, namely the implementation of the motion. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is going to have a conversation with the social partners. Can she tell us what her commitment is in this? What is the expected effect and when can we expect it? "Conversing with the social partners" sounds a little vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u60	I'd like a brief response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u61	I believe that this motion was also referred to by the Minister. It is a broad palette of subjects that also play around the Borstlap Committee. I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u62	The Minister has already had his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u63	Do I understand that this will be taken into account in the report we receive after the summer on the developments surrounding the talks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u64	Yes. Mr. Chairman. The same is true to a greater or lesser extent of Mr Kox's question about the partner test. In Tozo 1, you didn't have one. Why do you have one in Tozo 2? I would like to say that those other tests, the power test and the viability test, have remained away, but we want to move towards a situation more similar to a normal situation. How do we scale down without removing that soil that people need because they've been affected by this unique and special situation? In regular social security, a partner income test is a regular tool when people claim assistance, and we want to get to that situation more. We want the entrepreneur who can start his business slowly again. But with the bottom we want to move the entrepreneur who knows that he is unable to work in his sector for a long time to adapt to the new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u65	I understand that reasoning, but the question is whether it fits. Does that scheme fit in with a consideration of legal certainty and equality of law? Tozo 1 chose not to enter a partner key. So there was no choice at the time to say: you may end up in the assistance. No, we came up with the Tozo arrangement. The government's now saying we're gonna scale it down, because it's gonna have to get back to normal. That is why we want to use this partner test now, but what is the legal justification for it? We had an arrangement. It was not a welfare scheme and it was said that it would not be a welfare scheme. Where does the government obtain a justification and will it stand if someone protests against it before the judge? After all, nothing has changed in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u66	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u67	Mr. Chairman. We...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u68	I'm getting ahead of myself. The Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u69	We've weighed the situation with each other. When the crisis broke out to a full extent, we decided on Tozo 1 for three months. No one knew what we were up to. Slowly, sectors became more open and the perspective for sectors on opening also increasingly emerged. For those entrepreneurs who could go back to work, that is a good thing. At the same time, we must also ensure that we do not stall, because an entrepreneur who knows that he will be deprived of work for a long time is supposed to show the same entrepreneurship by switching to a new type of work. You can also honestly know that I also played a role in having many conversations with people who are covered by the Participation Act. Those people say, "I do have that partner income test. For me, that power test also applies and I've been through some bad things in my life." So at some point you also have to weigh the identity of the heaviness of the corona crisis compared to the identity that you were born with, for example, a labor restriction. In all these considerations, I have chosen to add that partner income test now and also to embed it in the arrangements that have been submitted to the Chamber. As a result, they also have a legal basis, but it is always possible. I have also said so in the House of Representatives to keep the situation under review. How does it develop? Perhaps more will be needed later, or are we on the right track and can we scale further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u70	I understand the Secretary of State very well, but it is a question of whether it is a good reasoning. At Tozo 1 we came up with an arrangement and nothing has changed in that regard. How can a partner test be added in Tozo 2 by appealing to the fact that we have a Participation Act? It is not a participation law. If the Secretary of State had thought that the self-employed were getting better and that they should therefore do something about the amount of the benefit, then perhaps that would have been reasonable. I wonder in my mind whether this change of law will stand with the judge once she has become a law. The Secretary of State has no legal basis to go from Tozo 1 to Tozo 2 with partner test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u71	So your question is whether it's gonna hold up with the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u72	Let me say this: if I turn the film back in my head to the beginning of the crisis, then we went from zero to a hundred kilometers in the fight against crisis. Because of the feasibility, we had to put all kinds of things off the table at the time. We had to deal with the fixed standards in the Participation Act, for single people €1,050 and for families €1,500. That's still solid data. For the Tozo, we have also put other things off the table, for example the cost-sharing standard. But we have also abolished the four-week search period of the Participation Act, and we have also provided a legal basis for that. Now that we are a few months further, we have discussed the feasibility with the municipalities. We have asked the congregations: what is possible and possibly desirable for you? They have said: a partner test that fits the story that we need to get to a new reality is feasible for us, provided that it is passed in a simple way. That's the ID for this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u73	Secretary of State, I'll take a look at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u74	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I can try...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u75	Trying or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u76	I can try to get through it a little faster, Mr. Chairman. The same is true of Mr Kox's question as to whether we can ensure that there will be no power test for AOW beneficiaries in the AIO. However, the AIO is an integral part of the Participation Act and that means that those limits apply to anyone over 18 years of age and call for general assistance. That is why, unfortunately, that is not possible. Furthermore, AOW's can use the Tozo business capital. This is an amendment proposed by Mrs Van Brenn in the House of Representatives. Mr Essers asks whether the Tozo really is an assistance scheme and whether it does not need to be exported for border workers. We have the Tozo, as I said, grafted on the Bpz 2004. This should also be seen as assistance under European law, in particular Regulation 883/2004, which is the Coordination Regulation. It is therefore a living allowance and cannot be exported, and it does not have to be exported from Europe. Mr Essers did cut a point for me. I have also changed the original scheme for people who are border workers, because there were no arrangements for people living on our territory who had a business just across the border. I have sent a comprehensive letter on this, but the essence of the question put by Mr Essers is: can we not address it once in Europe? The people in the ministry have been talking to Belgium and Germany, and I also think it is important that everyone abides by what we have agreed in Europe, namely that you take care of the people who are legally residing on your territory. I think it is quite good to raise this at European level, but at the same time I also think it is important that we can continue to decide how to shape this issue on our territory. I wouldn't want to get into the situation, for example, that we should go beyond border workers when we come together in this European debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u77	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer, but it remains an unsatisfactory situation that depends on where you live... On the one hand, if you live in the Netherlands, you have a chance that you will be well provided for in all the regulations. The Belgian, German and Dutch regulations. If you live the other way around in Belgium or Germany, you have a chance that you are wrong. You give a fairly formal answer to the question of whether or not this Tozo scheme is a kind of welfare allowance. I also refer to the debate with Mr Kox. There's no power key in it, and there was no partner key in Tozo 1. The same problem also arises in the European Parliament. They have put questions to the European Commission. I know that there are really different views on that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u78	What's your short question, Mr. Essers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u79	My question is: if you agree with me that this is an unsatisfactory situation, are you prepared to look a little more broadly than just that strictly formal legal explanation regarding the Tozo scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u80	What's been going on with a lot of people, and that's exactly what I understand is that they said: I'm paying a premium in the Netherlands, why don't I have the right to a provision? But that is par excellence because this is a welfare scheme, not based on contributions. Frankly, I am one with Mr Essers: I think we have arranged it very nicely in the Netherlands, because whether you are German or Belgian, if you live here, you get a living under the rules that apply in corona time. I think that we have arranged this very neatly and I would also like it, perhaps just as neatly, if they were to do so across the border for the people who are legally there. 'Cause it's a big deal. That's not a regular entrepreneurial risk. But it is indeed a welfare allowance, so if we are to raise this issue at European level, then we must also accept that we are actually crossing a border and that we are giving away something that is national to decide, then as it were. What I am trying to achieve with colleagues on the other side of the border is that they are making such a decent arrangement for their people, some of whom are Dutch nationals as we are doing here for those of whom some are Belgian nationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u81	Mr Essers has a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u82	Yes. You say it is indeed a welfare allowance, but do you at least agree with me that you can think differently about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u83	I now know Mr Essers as someone who really controls the finesses of the law. I will make sure that I can give a good answer to this in the second term. As I have been given so far, that is not the case. I'll check that out. Mr. Chairman. In the direction of Mr Kox, I have had a good debate with Mr Jasper van Dijk on the proposal he made on the anti-poverty plan. I will take this into account in the cabinet response on the reports of the SCP and the CBP. I do have with him that we now have a number of trajectories running. I also referred to the discussion with the First Chamber. Let's not put another plan next to it, but let's try to integrate it a little bit. Mr Van Pareren asked me a difficult question: do we have all the forgotten groups now, do we know them all now? That is, of course, a bit of a contradiction in terms, because if we have forgotten them, we do not know them. We have many groups on the retina, for example the new target group of people who are in danger of getting problematic debts. Those guys are zzp'ers or kids. We're talking to the congregations about that. We have had the Halsema Committee, which, with a number of experts, has exposed mechanisms that we should already be paying attention to. I've had a lot of contact with aldermen and municipalities to see if we're on the buttons. This summer, the Ministry of SZW organises expert sessions with debt relief workers and clients' councils up to and including municipalities on debt issues. I hope that our shutters will be so open that we can pick up these signals and continue to look together where we can possibly do some more and whether people can actually turn up in the regular way. Finally, Mr Ester asked me a question which is very important to me, namely the future of people with disabilities. I'll be honest with you, I'm worried about that. We saw in the previous crisis that it was the group that first took the hits of a labour market that went down. That's what I'm worried about. Last week, I sent the latest figures on the job appointment to the Chambers. Those are actually very positive, especially in the market sector, there is again a lot of roadblocks, but they were for corona. The signals we get are that it is still a vulnerable position and that if we do nothing, we risk not knowing what really happened until next year's figures. Because only in July 2021 will we have the results for 2020. I have asked for interim reports so that we can at least monitor in the meantime. We have accompanied the emergency packages we are talking about today with the call to keep people with a vulnerable employment position in one place, for example the NOW. We've earmarked 90 million extra for the sw. The Home Secretary sent a letter about that. I am watching with colleagues from the Interior and Education and also with Mr Aart van der Gaag, the driver for the job deal, how we can prevent what we are seeing and what is threatening. One could say that this labour market may even offer opportunities for people, but then something must be done. We're looking at measures that might help us do things smarter. Finally, I would like to remind you that the bill is a broad offensive, which should make it easier for employers to hire people, and is scheduled for treatment in the Lower House right after the summer recess. In the region "Perspective at work," the Netherlands works by "Overland," the infrastructure we have built in recent years is now really being used for these groups. Last but not least, I attach great importance to the implementation and implementation of the Borstlap Committee, as the Minister keeps saying. In addition, I always say that we also have Pillar 5, which is also about these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u84	Thank you for your consideration. I know a lot about that. You referred to the figures. I've seen those numbers, too. With all due respect, you're charging a little to your own advantage, because the market sector does meet the targets, but the government doesn't. In my opinion, the government hasn't reached its own targets for labour restrictions for less than a year. I would like to give you the opportunity to look at the sector itself, too, to see whether additional steps can be taken there to protect people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u85	Very. I also indicated in my response that I would discuss this within the cabinet with colleagues responsible for large public sectors. I have complimented the market, but I have said it before, also in this place: it is really up to the government to take big steps now. It seems to me that this should be the right example in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u86	I understood that the Secretary of State had come to the end of her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u87	At least in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u88	Yes. I mentioned the case of the Abbey of Our Lady of Kingshoeven, not to solve that case here today, but because he is in line with the question asked by colleague Van Pareren. It is good that the government says it has a lot on the retina, but the question is where businesses, to name it, entrepreneurs, self-employed people who do not feel seen can be justified. The Prior of Kingshoeven said to me: "To whom can I tell my story? I've got all these businesses here. In total I received €4,000 as a loan and that's it." Is there a place where the missed cases can end up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u89	I'd almost say it might be a little exemplary for something that fell between us. That is what is happening, and that is the reality. We know that we can help a lot of people and a lot of organisations with the measures, but we also know that people and organisations are falling apart. Then we can put in place all kinds of things: municipalities, special emergency offices, but that is a fact. I would suggest that we return to this point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u90	Thank you. We now have the second term on the part of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, as did the Secretary of State. She didn't have to answer questions from me, but thank you anyway. Two comments in my second term. First of all, about the possibility of making the non-payment of bonuses compulsory in the year 2021. I think that the Minister's reasoning is somewhat controversial. He says that it is not possible to commit to a grant granted for this year which extends until next year. That it can't go up to the length of the years, I understand, but that it really can't go up until next year, is a matter of urgency. Especially since he himself says "but my moral sense knows it." That's not just the Minister's moral sense. You can take note of that, but it's a very broad feeling in society. If there is to be a great gap between a widely-behaved sense of morality in society and a somewhat oppressive, limited legal interpretation of law, this is a cause for many problems. This gap between morality and justice is also jeopardising the credibility of politics. Against that somewhat transcendent background, an urgent appeal to take a very close look at whether it is as strict as you say and whether there is a possibility. In any case, a plea for us to do so. A second point on which I have not had an answer from this minister is my plea to link the transition to sustainability directly to the package. Mr Wiebes has said something about this and I have already said that it must of course also be discussed within the troika. But what Mr Wiebes said about this, I assume, also on behalf of Mr Koolmees, worried me. He said, "I can't ask everyone to build a wind farm." Then the exact question wasn't. He also said, of course, everyone must stick to the Paris climate goals. But that's pretty obvious. But there's still a whole world in between. I find it rather passive to leave it at that. So a plea, not just mine. About all the planning agencies have asked for it. Kim Putters recently explicitly asked for the transition to take place. Just saying 'there's no money' and 'they have to stick to the climate agreement' makes the cabinet too easy, I think. In the second term, I hope for a little more perspective in the Minister's reflection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u92	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mrs Sent on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the prompt and pleasant answer to our questions. We have called on the Minister to address, with the utmost urgency, the fluctuating labour market. We welcome his ambitions and we will monitor them very closely. We would like to remain well informed about his progress on this dossier. We have asked for solutions to be found to the effect that assistance will be a first safety net for people rather than a last one. Of course, we in this Chamber pay particular attention to the feasibility and do not wish to impose unfulfilled legislation on UWV. We are very interested in the results of this summer's reflection on possibilities, such as part-time work and its feasibility. Mr. Chairman. We have called for investment in retraining and training to meet the high demand for labour in health and education. With Mr Ester, I call on the Cabinet to take up this dossier with extra urgency and look forward to the Minister's letter on his progress. We have called on the cabinet to ensure that young people get a good start on the labour market, including those between 18 and 21. We are very much looking forward to the results of the discussion with the social partners on this subject, which the Secretary of State informed us about. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that I have co-signed the motion tabled by Mr Kox. This motion fits perfectly with the Minister's moral appeal. I'm rounding up. Never washed a good crisis, as we learned from Rahm Emanuel, former advisor to President Obama. That quote is wrongly sometimes attributed to Winston Churchill. As far as the Acts are concerned, I would like to say that this is incorrect. Take real action to make the labour market more flexible. Make the welfare a real last safety net. Invest in retraining and training. Give young people a good start on the labour market. Make the economy inclusive and sustainable. That's the PvdA's appeal to this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for replying. If some critical comments are made from this Chamber towards the government, then the government should see this as mainly constructive contributions that fit our role as co-legislator. In this case, we are talking about a very short law, three articles, one page, and below the line is 14.7 billion. That is what we are deciding today. I predict this room will say yes. That would certainly not have been so easy in other times. But it's necessary and the government will do whatever it takes. I have already said that this government is more my government than the government of the coalition agreement. This government is doing things that the government of the coalition agreement would never have done on the basis of that coalition agreement. And that's it. Co-legislators not only take part in the decision on the law as such, the three articles and the 14.7 billion receipt, but also give suggestions on the implementation of that legislation. Generally speaking, this Chamber says widely: do it as you imagined, government. However, on a number of points, this Chamber says that it can do even better here. I would like to confine myself to two subjects. The first is Tozo 2, the partner test. As a co-legislator, I believe that the government allows the first and the second rules to deviate from each other without motivating this with a substantive argument, but with the argument: it all has to be a little less, we have to scale down and so on. I can understand all that, but that will not be a good way to implement that arrangement. That is why I am calling for that to be looked at again, because we will have nothing to do with implementing regulations that are not going to stand up in court. Once again, I understand exactly what the Secretary of State is saying. Everyone wants to go back to the way it was or everyone wants to move forward after it's not like it is now. But still the purity has to be respected. I don't think it's gonna last for Tozo 1 not to have a partner test and Tozo 2 does, without any argument except that it all has to be a little less. I'd like another reflection on that. The second is towards the minister and deals with bonuses and dividends. This country is of the opinion that, by way of derogation from what is customary, public support should be given to industry and the self-employed in order to tackle an unprecedented problem which cannot be attributed to these companies and self-employed persons. When companies appeal to the legitimate generosity of the government and society, this country also believes that it should be agreed that these companies will not pay out bonuses and dividends or buy their own shares in the meantime. That is what the House of Representatives has said with 150 people for this year and for next year. That's what it says. That's what society thinks. That's what this room thinks, too, I think. Because that's reasonable in everything. If that is perhaps a bit difficult, I will say again: this Minister is able to do so much, I really mean that, that is not a joke, because I think he is doing an impressive job and that he will do it. If it doesn't work at all anymore, there is still a lot of assistance to be found for that. But I think this is a key point. The population may ask companies that rely on the magnanimity of society: if you do, you will not pay bonuses and dividends in 2020 and 2021, as has been said from the start. Since the Minister is not ready to say that this is actually a very good idea, I would like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Sent, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[discussing the third incidental supplementary budget SZW 2020 on the Emergency Jobs and Economy Package (35473);]] [[Given the importance of the broadest possible parliamentary and public support for the measures in the emergency package;]] [[Notes that the payment of bonuses and dividends by companies does not bear the burden of requesting public support from those companies in the context of this emergency package;]] [[Calls on the Government to make the non-payment by companies of bonuses and dividends conditional on entitlement to benefits under the NOW in 2020 and 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u96	And chairman... Oh, my time is up. Then I'll part with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u97	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the Minister, the Secretary of State and the officials for answering all the questions and comments. I have three points. The first is the businessmen who threatened, or are still threatening, to get between ship and ship. I have a clear positive attitude from the government when it comes to the cost-plus companies. It is not quite clear to me how this is being implemented, but I also call on the companies concerned to keep us informed about the developments, because we cannot see everything and only by knowing how things are going in practice, we know whether or not we should take action. The same goes for the payrollers. I thought it was a rather tricky advice, that of "yes, just have a conversation," because, well, that doesn't guarantee a good outcome. But this also applies to the maintenance of jobs, and it is important for these companies to report if there are any bottlenecks. So I'd love to join that. Then there is the point of the border entrepreneurs; we have discussed this extensively. It is still unsatisfactory that there are categories that have double regulations and categories that are not likely to get anything, depending on whether or not you live in the Netherlands. That is unsatisfactory. I understand the Secretary of State that, of course, there are certain principles, but on the other hand, this Tozo scheme is also a very specific one, which cannot be equated to a welfare scheme. And what I am specifically referring to is the debate that is also taking place in the European Parliament: is this Tozo now falling within the scope of Regulation 883/2004, and if so, and if so, am I going to go into the details of this Tozo benefit as an unemployment benefit for the self-employed or a special non-contributory benefit? That is an important legal aspect that is taking place here. And I also saw in the letter of 1 July that the Secretary of State goes into consultation with the Belgian Ministry of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Agriculture, and Social Integration. They must be very busy... We would very much like to be kept informed of the progress of that discussion. Because in the end, I think that's going to be the solution, that you're looking for an ad hoc solution for an ad hoc measure, without having to tear down the whole structure. My final point, Mr President, which I did not get to in the first term, is that we are getting reports from entrepreneurs in the border region that the Dutch authorities, the marechaussee, have been very strict in allowing Belgians and Germans to shop in the Netherlands, and that this has meant a huge loss of sales. I would like to ask: do you recognise that sound and would you like to mention it? Because if that is the case, it is of course an important factor which, if the other side is very liberal, affects the level playing field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u99	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to our call for more occasional funding to be made available for more training, for re-training, retraining and further training of our children. It concerns the use of intersectoral training resources for the transition of work in sectors without prospects to sectors with perspectives. The Labour Foundation advocated greater urgency on this point. We have to learn, I said it earlier from the previous crisis. The sector plans of the then cabinet, with 600 million, came relatively late. That's what we need to learn from. My group has in the House of Representatives a motion for a resolution, and I repeat that here we are arguing for a delta plan. That sounds tough and long-term, but it is actually a request for the very short term, because for the long term the prospect of work and having work for our children is essential. There will be no difference of opinion on that. We would like to help the Minister with a positive attitude, because time is running out. You're gonna be hopelessly unemployed, or already know you're definitely gonna be. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Kox, Mr Crone, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, during this corona crisis, the Cabinet has taken measures to preserve jobs and incomes of as many people as possible and to prevent a fall in incomes, but nevertheless, there may be a risk of massive and long-term unemployment for many;]] [[Whereas labour market reintegration budgets have been cut by more than EUR 1 billion in recent years and that public funding is now more necessary than ever;]] [[calls on the Government to come to the August decision-making with a Delta Plan of Work which provides a substantial amount of retraining and further training to help those who have lost or will lose their jobs in the labour market due to the COOVID-19 crisis and thereby improve their income position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35473-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u101	Mr. Chairman. Finally, may I wish the Secretary of State success as Minister for Medical Care? You'll be sworn in this week, alone. That happened to me, as Secretary of State for Finance in December '73, to Queen Juliana. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u102	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Van Pareren on behalf of the Group of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u103	Mr. Chairman. I have listened with pleasure to the enthusiasm with which both the Secretary of State and the Minister are working. They expressed this in the answer to the questions we asked, but also in the general explanatory statement they gave. You're not doing anything from 0 to 100 kilometers, but you are, I think, even very quickly switched from 0 to 130 kilometers. You must address that, Madam Secretary of State. I want to come to the part of education you probably also, Mr. Secretary of State, and innovation. I would also like to name the education of the elderly. I missed that for a moment with my colleague in the party of some elderly people. That's what's so important. An older one is not 70-plus. You're often called over 50 years old. It is precisely so important to give them a fair chance in their further development in life and in their working life. The retirement age has risen and may one day go up a bit, so give those people a handle to do something about it. I would like to suggest that the government should also pay attention to innovative training, to see how we can do things in other ways. It is very commendable what is already being done, with the 20,000 calls and many other things being done. However, part of it may also be devoted to an innovative approach to training. I don't mean online or not online. I mean, content on the way to the new society. Apart from corona, a lot would change anyway. It was a good point about the missed group, as Mr Kox called it. I called it the forgotten people myself. Could you consider organizing a rather easy-to-access window so that there is some hope for those people? You can hear no, but you can get yes. It would be very nice to get that rest, as far as it can give peace if it becomes a no. Nevertheless, it is important to be heard. The Minister indicated that it was difficult to see ahead. I couldn't agree more. Still, you could have a small group think about where we're really going. Corona has started something, but society itself is also developing. Mr Van Gurp always stressed the importance of the climate and said: let us pay particular attention to it. I do not want to deny that the environment is important to us. I do not believe that we can directly influence the climate. To give a hand to the environment and do things for it is very important. But as I said in my first term: it is important to do first things first, so first to help the people and then to take the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u104	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Finally, Mr Ester has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to both rulers for answering the questions of the Christian Union Group. The labour market is in unprecedented weather. My group therefore fully and wholeheartedly supports this third supplementary SZW budget. Whether the funds released are sufficient depends on the length and depth of the crisis. Is there gonna be a second wave of the virus, or is it gonna spare us? Is there gonna be a vaccine soon, or is it gonna be long? That'll all make a lot of difference. There is also the prospect that we really need to think fundamentally about linking massive emergency aid to structural reform of the labour market and a two-track policy. We must use this crisis to accelerate necessary reforms. We really need to start thinking about the transition from emergency aid to recovery policy. That's the big deal. This also raises the question of selectivity. Which companies are we going to help and which aren't? What criteria do we use? That's gonna be a solid puzzle that's gonna boost politics and society. My group understands that both rulers are still in the mode of emergency support, with a look at what follows. But the moment really comes when we need an emergency package 3.0, which will make our labour market more inclusive, sustainable and competent. A resilient labour market offers opportunities for a well-educated workforce that is manoeuvrable and resilient and really has core competences in order. This is ultimately the best protection against the threat of unemployment and job losses. My group and I personally welcome the fact that both rulers recognize themselves in this adage. Mr. Chairman. I note the Minister's commitment to the Christian Union Group to come forward with an attack plan in the run-up to Princess Day and to release the R&D funds. At least that should be the task, so no longer all kinds of small well-intentioned jars for well-meaning but very limited measures, but really a firm offensive. We take that commitment very seriously and will also closely follow how this plan will strike down in the Prince's Day papers. We're giving the Minister a chance to really build an exciting vision here. We thank the Secretary of State, still Secretary of State, for her reflections on vulnerable groups in the labour market, especially those with disabilities. We're also glad that she's going to monitor more to make sure that group doesn't fall out of the boat. I will only give her once again to look at the state's own position, one of the biggest employers in this country, but that year in, or year out, its own targets. We can't let that story go on much longer. We cannot have people with disabilities being victims of this crisis, just as they were victims of the previous crisis. But we have every confidence that the government, that the cabinet will take this seriously. My group wishes both leaders every success in the coming months in making this a success. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. I would like to announce that at the end of this debate I will suspend for a half-hour dinner break before starting the debate on the Temporary Law suspension periodic penalty payments IND with Secretary of State Broekers-Knol. Minister and Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Given the body language, I think this is indeed the case. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u107	I just don't have the second motion yet, Mr. President, but I assume it will be here shortly. So I don't have motion D yet. Thank you to the speakers for the second-term questions. The division of labour is the same as in the first term. Mr Van Gurp started with a comment on the bonuses, on which Mr Kox has tabled a motion, on which I will be coming shortly. Then there is his second point, about transition and sustainability. In fact, I answered that in the other debate towards Mr Crone. The importance of this transition and the importance of a well-educated workforce able to work in that new world is evident. Along different lines we try to give hands and feet to them. Not only through generic policy but also through specific policies such as the Hemwegcentrale and the Westerhavenarrangement, this must come together. Apart from that, I do agree with Mr Wiebes, unlike a number of letter writers in the Volkskrant some time ago, that when it comes to support measures, you have to think very carefully about how to do it. If it is specific, as in the KLM discussion, it is obvious. If it is a generic instrument, you should also be careful not to disrupt a level playing field, where you impose requirements on one type of company that you do not impose on other companies. It is also not possible to carry out and not to check the feasibility of the measure, but it is also a substantive argument. Then you actually have to set the same bar a bit higher for all companies in the Netherlands. And I think Mr Van Gurp is very much in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u108	I very much agree with that, but I would impose conditions on everyone and not on anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u109	We are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u110	Of course, those conditions for a larger company look different than those for a smaller company.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u111	So that's what we're doing. That's part of the climate agreement. That includes all the measures that come from below, such as the CO minimum prices, and which, of course, raise the bar for the whole sector when it comes to reducing CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u112	My specific question was whether the billions invested in the economy are also being used to increase their acceleration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u113	That actually brings me to Mr Ester's last question. What we have done so far is an emergency package that has taken the hit when it comes to people's income through the NOW and the Tozo and when it comes to the permanent burden of entrepreneurs via the TVL and TOGS. That is what the policy has been based on. I agree with Mr Ester that we are now entering a new phase. We're going from "catching the blow" to "restoring." These include questions about investing and how to shape your labour market. That is quite complicated, because it is not for nothing that this has been debated for ten years. You can't just fix that. But at the same time you can see that the need and urgency are greater, because we are in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u114	Mr Van Gurp with his third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u115	The question was also forward-looking. It wasn't a criticism that there isn't enough in it right now. The question is, will you take it? At least your answer gives me some hope of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u116	Oh, dear! Haha! Thank you. Mrs Sent asked about the work agenda. Where's Mrs. Sent? Oh, there! Indeed, the work agenda looks at these zipper agreements on training, from work to work, part-time arrangements, but also at the WRR reports and the Borstlap Committee reports. The Secretary of State also rightly said that not only pillars 1 to 4 but also Pillar 5 are very relevant. So that's what we're going to do, while we're constantly keeping the feasibility in mind. That remains a focus for us. All arrangements must also be enforceable. That's a bit of a bridge to Mr. Kox. We started with a generic toolbox. That goes for the NOW, the TOGS, later also for the TVL, and also for the Tozo. There's no other way than that it's generic and has a coarse character. At the same time, we have seen signs coming from companies in this context. I would like to mention, for example, the seasonal companies. I mention the companies that had just started, for example, which had just opened their doors on 1 March. I refer to the group companies which are part of a larger group. In doing so, the companies were affected by the corona crisis, which did not qualify for the NOW. That is why we have made an exception. We have therefore adjusted the scheme step by step, on the basis of these signals from companies, along different lines. This also applies, for example, to the EZK budget as regards the SBI codes: which companies are eligible for the aid? So we keep the finger on the wrist all the time. And when those examples come up, we try to see if it's soluble. Your chamber mentioned the example of the abbey. I don't know what's causing them not to be able to use the NOW. Maybe they're not employees. That's an explanation, I guess. Indeed, once there are employees, the NOW can be used. My experience over the last few months is that these kinds of signals always come through us, through your Rooms, through lobbies and letters sent in. We're always looking at how to adapt the arrangements to that. So far, we have done this three times with the NOW 1.0, precisely to meet the diversity of companies and situations in the Dutch economy. So that's what we're doing. We've got an open can in there. Then there are a few critical comments from Mr Kox. I wrote that down. As I said just now in my first term, you are, of course, a co-legislator and, of course, you must agree to a supplementary budget law. But the fact that we ended on the other hand with 150-0, has strengthened me in the belief that we have listened carefully, not only to the input of the coalition parties but also to those of the opposition parties. Part of that was also the discussion about bonuses. Your first motion, the one with letter D, is also about the bonuses and the dividends. There's been a motion from Mr. Jetten. He was widely accepted in the House of Representatives. We have translated them into the legislation that is the legal basis under these arrangements. We explicitly placed them in the Lower House and discussed them with the Lower House. This relates not only to proportionality and the subsidy for 2020, but also to feasibility. Indeed, if you add 2021 to it, you could only settle the NOW in 2022, once the annual accounts for 2022 have been established. That also creates a lot of uncertainty and hassle, and a long period of uncertainty. For example, a company which receives an additional subsidy because its turnover is lower than originally envisaged must wait two years for that benefit. So also because of the feasibility, an important theme in your First Chamber, we have chosen to give it a different meaning. This is explicitly laid down in the Lower House. The House of Representatives said yes to that with 150 to 0. Against that background, I'd like to discourage your motion with letter D. We discussed this at length on the other side, but also here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u117	The Minister could also say to this Chamber: the Jetten motion, which was said 'yes' to 150 times, talks about 2020 and 2021, so this year and next year. The Minister's decision to limit that to one year is his right. But the results in the room across the street were 150 yes, 0 no. I hope this Chamber will say 75 yes, 0 no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u118	I then submitted the results to the House of Representatives. Then the House of Representatives again said 150-0: we are doing it the way the ministers propose. Of course it is about the overall package, but you say yes or no to that. That is part of this debate. It was explicitly exchanged with the House of Representatives. A motion has been tabled in the House of Representatives. So my judgment on the motion with letter D continues to "dissuade," Mr. Chairman. On the partner test, the Secretary of State will be back shortly. The motion-Van Rooijen c.s. With letter E will be dealt with shortly. I say to Mr Essers: I have replied to Mr Kox on the shore-and-ship examples. If there are examples of cost-plus, I like to hear them. Then we can watch it. In our opinion, nothing goes wrong and it is part of the systematic as it is now rigged. As far as payroll is concerned, I know that a number of companies have made agreements with the user and the client to still qualify for the NOW, but also that a number of companies have chosen to fire people. That is also the reality. Especially in the world of broadcasting, that is also the reality. The Secretary of State is about to deal with the border workers. I would like to take a very brief look at the signals about the Dutch authorities. We did a quick check-up. We are aware of these signals, but I will bring it to the attention of the Minister of JenV, who, of course, is about this. We are not aware that the Netherlands would treat visitors from those countries differently than Germany or Belgium, for example. But I'll return the signal to the Minister of JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u119	Very specific: it concerns Zeeland entrepreneurs and Belgians, who come shopping and undertake other activities. Those entrepreneurs have suffered a great deal from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u120	I have a friendly request to the Members not to touch the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u121	I can't respond to it. I don't know, but I'll take it to the Minister of JenV. Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen's contribution and his motion. This was also the subject of a wide-ranging debate on the other side. Amendments have been tabled by Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks. I have said that motions have been adopted by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma and by Mrs Van Brenn on the importance of training in the new labour market. That is what we are working on and we are in consultation with the social partners, in the work agenda that I have just spoken about. Against this background, this motion is asking for extra money to be released now, while we are still discussing it. Apart from that, it's only at Prince's Day that I could make that known. Against this background and against the background of the fact that several motions have already been adopted on the other side, which I am now carrying out, I would like to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u122	Thanks for the answer. Mrs Van Brenn's amendment concerned 500 million. Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks' amendment concerned 150 million. I am only asking for a substantial amount over 50 million. Could the Minister perhaps take more of a step forward in time and in view of this modest move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u123	During the first debate on the emergency package, a motion was tabled by Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg, and by Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS, in the Lower House. They have said: training is important, go in good consultation with the social partners not only to see what the government can do, but also to see what social partners can do through the R&D funds and so on to give this a boost. I'm working on that. I will return to Prince's Day with the results, as I indicated to Mr Ester. But now take an extra step in between, I'm not gonna do it. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u124	Mr Van Rooijen for a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u125	I was talking about fast, but not so fast. The motion states: in the August package. In other words, perhaps, given the texts, you can judge a little more lightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u126	So I'm not gonna do that. Thank you to Mr Van Pareren for the compliment. He was also right to talk about education for 50-plussers. It has been a focus for years, because we see that people over the age of 50 are more likely to become long-term unemployed and not return to their original job and level. That is why we have developed the Action Plan 50PlusWorkt, in which training also plays a role. We want to continue with that. We want to reduce the risk of older unemployed staying in benefits. It certainly has our attention. I have just responded to 'over-heavy' and 'between shore and ship' in the direction of Mr Kox and Mr Essers. Finally, Mr Ester. He has given a brief summary: we have had two emergency aid packages with which we have taken the hit and we are now faced with the question of how we go from emergency aid to recovery. This requires more than just emergency measures. You also need to think about what you can achieve, what is needed and how it fits in long-term discussions about housing market, sustainability, labour market and the Borstlap Committee. In the troika, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs and myself, including our Secretary of State, we are discussing this with almost the entire cabinet and also with the social partners. Towards Prinsjesdag we come with a reaction and a package for recovery after emergency support. This is it, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u127	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u128	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the questions and constructive remarks, as I say in Mr Kox's direction. For the sake of clarity, I have noted two real questions. Mr Kox wanted a more detailed explanation of the choice in Tozo 2. In Article 18 of the Tozo, we have explicitly stated that ministerial rules can be laid down on the right to assistance, which may derogate from a first decision. Also for the sake of feasibility, although we leave a number of criteria inoperative, we want to take a step towards the regular situation: the Decision on self-employed assistance. In reply to Mr Essers' question, I have called for some guidelines to be carefully and accurately answered. Can you even call the Tozo a welfare allowance? At the Tozo, a number of conditions have been put into effect in relation to normal assistance and the Bbz: the power test and the cost sharing standard. In Tozo 1 we also ignored the test on the partner's income. The fact that these tests have not been carried out has to do with the feasibility of the scheme and not with its objectives. This feasibility was paramount because everyone had to wait too long for the necessary support to be given to self-employed entrepreneurs. The Tozo's objective is still the same as that of the assistance, namely to provide for the necessary cost of living. This also means that the scheme cannot be compared with unemployment or disability benefits by that particular element, because the scheme does not cover the risk of a worker. Can the Tozo also be regarded as assistance under European law, or can you discuss it? As far as the cabinet is concerned, there is no possibility of discussion. The Tozo is an assistance scheme, which is outside the scope of the coordination regulation and does not need to be exported. To be precise, the Tozo concerns a social assistance scheme which, on the basis of Article 3 (5), falls outside the coordination regulation. Nor is the Tozo a special non-contributory benefit within the meaning of Article 80, since the Tozo does not meet the criteria of the article. Indeed, it is not included in the Annex to the Regulation and there is no further connection with a social security risk, which also does not comply with Article 70 of the Regulation. Mr President, I cannot make it more beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u129	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-5.u130	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tomorrow at the end of the sitting. I also propose that we vote on the motions tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour, so until 7:30, before dinner break.
