ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	Let's start with the first question. This is from Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV to the Minister of Justice and Security about not maintaining the 1.5 meter at the demonstration in Amsterdam. I call Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The whole of the Netherlands has been fighting Corona for months and has made great sacrifices for it. We all adhere to far-reaching freedom-limiting rules to win the fight against the virus, except in Amsterdam, except if you are from GroenLinks and are mayor and called Femke Halsema, because then you measure with two sizes. Then you don't care about the rules. Then you let 5,000 of your left-wing friends on the Dam scream side by side. So this is what anarchy looks like. Mayor Halsema of Amsterdam who does not respect the one and a half meter rule that the cabinet has imposed on the Netherlands. Just like she did before, she didn't care about the burqa ban, and just like they did in Halsema's house, she didn't care about the arms bill. Mr. Chairman. So we are talking about a left-wing activist, dressed up as mayor, who decides when to enforce the law. Who, if she thinks the purpose of the demonstration is important enough, does look the other way when it comes to enforcing the rules. Halsema gives all those Dutch who do stick to the rules a brutal blow in the face. Like the elderly who, because of the rules, had not been allowed to see their children and grandchildren for months and they were left in solitude. Or all those care heroes who work hard on the front line day and night to take care of people with corona. Or all those entrepreneurs who have to close their business because of the rules, such as the catering industry that literally had to measure with the measuring bar 1.5 meters on the terraces on penalty of a fine of €4,000. They all see now that the left-wing anarchist Halsema doesn't respect the rules. If you are an ordinary citizen, you get a heavy fine, but if you are a friend of GroenLinks, then the rules are set aside. That's outrageous. There's only one proper answer to that, and that's the mayor's immediate resignation. And that is actually the only question I have to the cabinet: are you prepared to fire this mayor Halsema immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last Whitsun weekend another step has been taken in relaxing the corona measures. As of yesterday, the catering industry has opened up again in a limited way. Museums have opened the doors, as well as cinemas and theatres. Public transport has started again for 100% driving. I would like to begin by expressing a great deal of appreciation to all Dutch people and also to the entrepreneurs and employees involved for the way in which this has been done. With the exception of a few incidents, openings have gone really well. With regard to the demonstration in Amsterdam, I spoke more critically last night, and I do so again. Of course, the right of demonstration is a fundamental right that applies to everyone, but at this time it is important that at all times, including in the case of demonstrations and demonstrations, that 1.5 metres away is kept. That is the designation of the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport who has worked out the emergency measures. Yesterday's images from Amsterdam show that there was a large mass of people together, not keeping a distance of 1.5 metres. At this time, when we are all doing everything we can to control the corona virus, I repeat, this really goes beyond the limits. For all the people who have kept to the measures in recent weeks and worked hard in this crisis, those images are painful to see. Such situations must not occur again in the future. As you know, demonstrations must be notified in a municipality and the necessary rules can then be laid down at the front to carry out a demonstration, including keeping a distance of 1.5 metres between them. I will raise this point again this evening in my weekly safety meeting. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport will also send a letter to the presidents of the security regions in which he invites the presidents in their consideration of whether or not to allow a demonstration to go ahead with the risk of spreading COOVID-19. It is still necessary that we all genuinely adhere to all these measures. The motto is: avoid crowds. But the hard rule is: keep five feet away from everyone at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u4	I said, do you want to fire the mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u5	Oh, yeah. Sorry, I forgot to answer that question. This is not a matter of state law. According to my understanding, a letter is being sent today to the Amsterdam City Council. This is a debate that will take place in the Amsterdam city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. So this minister does not want to fire Mrs Halsema, while she and her left-wing activist friends totally shirt her shirt. This Minister has imposed far-reaching measures on the Netherlands in recent months. He defended those rules. He pushed the whole of the Netherlands to abide by those rules. He sent police officers and boas out to enforce those rules, to fine people when they got close. Companies get fines if they don't follow the rules. Now, this minister will maintain anarchy because the mayor may remain. He allows his policy to be completely undermined by one activist GroenLinks mayor who thinks she is above the law. My question to him is next. If you, Mr. Secretary, let this go on your side, if you just let Mayor Halsema sit where she sits in her own Republic of Amsterdam where the Dutch rules don't apply, if you tolerate this, then you can't expect anyone in the Netherlands to abide by the rules. Surely you cannot oblige any Dutchman to abide by these corona rules if you accept that the mayor of our capital, who is supposed to represent authority, measures it with double standards, goes his own way and does not respect the rules? And don't fall for her excuses. The fact that the demonstration could no longer be ended without police involvement and violence is nonsense. She just shouldn't have let it get this far. She shouldn't have let 5,000 men stand on the Dam. In addition to being anarchist, she is also totally incompetent and unfit to be mayor. She wasn't a mayor yesterday, she was a protester on the Dam Square. She wasn't involved with the chain of office either, but with a button pinned down with a political message about slavery. It can't be described with a pen. Fire that woman! Amsterdam deserves better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'm a little bedridden to say all that here in this house. So I would like to do that very briefly. State law is the case that this is explained by the mayor and is held accountable in the city council in Amsterdam. The Minister of Justice and Security has no role in this. I think this is a good thing too, especially in the light of our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u8	Then I have a list of MPs. I have Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Dam, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Ouwehand I thought, Mr Hiddema, Mr Van Raak, Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Krol, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mrs Van der Graaf. I shall go first to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u9	My question to the Minister is: how is he going to get the spirit back in the bottle? I understand the anger of protesters who want to speak out against racism and go out on the streets before that. I understand the incomprehension of the people who looked at the tube at home. They thought, "I have sacrificed so much over the past few weeks. I haven't been able to visit my grandmother. I didn't get to that one funeral. I had to close my company. Has all this been for nothing?" In his reply, the Minister just indicated what he is going to do towards mayors and towards the security regions. My question is how he gets the spirit back in the bottle with those millions of Dutch people. How does he get all those people back in the head that we have to stick to the corona rules he's responsible for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u10	First of all, I still have the full conviction that in the Netherlands everyone agrees that we are fighting Corona with all kinds of measures. I also pointed out that this reopening yesterday was looked at by a lot of people with cynicism and negativity, except for a few incidents, really went well. A number of things have not gone well, including this mass on Dam Square. I realise that, as a cabinet, we have a difficult task to carry out over the next few weeks in order to keep people aware of the seriousness of the matter. A few days ago, the main advisor to the German Government said that the problem of prevention was the success. We have all worked together, including you sitting here, the parliament and the cabinet. And indeed, you may rightly expect me to do everything we can to ensure that the Dutch are not discouraged by this, by campaigns, by personal performances and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u11	I understand very well that people wanted to express their anger at the police violence in the United States, but yesterday there were too many people present at this demonstration, which made it impossible to keep that one and a half metres away. That's a tough deal we have with each other as a society. It was just wrong. I've also heard from a lot of people that they're worried about those people who were stuffed together. What does this mean for public health? I have also heard many people give advice, from mayors to parliamentarians, for example that people should be quarantined or tested. I would like to know from the cabinet what the advice is to all these people, because there is great concern about public health. What is the advice to make sure this doesn't get worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u12	We decided immediately last night to ask RIVM for advice on how to deal with this, in terms of possible additional measures or actions. I expect the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to be able to make a statement on this today. So that's emergency advice. I agree entirely with Mr Klaver: we also have to face the fact that this was precisely the kind of mass meeting that has always been said 'this is not how it should be done'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'm not going to do my best to catch up with others in superlatives, but we all know that what they saw yesterday, a lot of people fell raw on the roof. That Dam was still so impressively empty on 4 May, at such an important memorial, but was now so filled with people who apparently lack the rules of distance. That was extremely painful. I wonder how such a situation can be avoided in Amsterdam too. In reply to a question from Mr Wilders, the Minister said that the municipality is still subject to state law; I keep my resignation and so on. But that's a little too easy. The municipal law says that a mayor is dismissed and appointed by royal decree, so how does the minister fulfil his responsibility to send a clear signal to Amsterdam that this is really not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u14	Now I'm gonna... I find it painful to do all these constitutional things here right now. Besides, my thesis in that area dates back to 1984. Even if I'm sent away by your chamber, I still have to pass the king and there will be a royal decision to accept. We all know that local democracy, which is very strong in our country, requires that what belongs to the city council should happen there too. But I would like to comment on something else from Mr Van der Staaij. I'm Amsterdamer myself. I also think that I should go into consultation with the Amsterdam City Council, which is indirectly also an answer to Mr Wilders, in order to say that we should make it clear to all Amsterdammers that this was really not as it should have been. Quite apart from the fact that it has not been said that it was all Amsterdammers who stood there. But we have to carry this out; that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister indicated that demonstrating is a fundamental right. At the same time, we are in a special situation in which we have made agreements with each other in the context of public health. How will the Minister ensure that this right of demonstration is granted? People see that there is inequality not only in America, but also in the Netherlands, and that here too, less than two weeks ago, there was a report of institutional racism, not to mention against the Tax Office. People see this inequality and want to express it. How can we make sure we can both do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u16	I would very much like to take over the term'space' from Mr Azarkan. It's never meant to say that demonstrations shouldn't be allowed anymore. There will be a demonstration tomorrow, I thought, at the Malieveld. Also in Groningen will be a demonstration. There are more demonstrations on the subject that were demonstrated in Amsterdam, but also on other topics. I will always stand for us to make maximum possible for people to demonstrate. But that will always have to be done at locations where we can observe that 1.5 meters together, measured by the number of people approaching the demonstration. We'll have to live with that as a society. If we restrict our right to sit on the beach, our right to go to the forest and all those things with each other in a certain way in the context of the fight against corona, then we will have to do the same here. But the space of the 1.5 meters must be the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u17	Secondly, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u18	I haven't heard from the Minister about the content of the demonstration. We saw groups of Dutch people there who are worried, because they see that in America someone is killed by police violence. We also see this in the Netherlands. We've had the case here of Mitch Henriquez. People see that with a different color or a different last name, you are often arrested by the police, which this minister is about. Ethnic profile. People see and express this inequality. What does the Minister actually think of the content of the demonstration, of the concerns and fears that these demonstrators displayed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u19	I have often spoken out in your Chamber for the fact that we are a society in which everyone is equal and deserves full respect in his personality of everyone else, in any case: sexual orientation, ethnic origin, faith, whatever. Let's get that up front. It is also true that, in a society like ours, things still do not go well and people discriminate against each other, even though our society is very open, we generally take the right measure and say the truth, and that is what I think we have, in any case, a well-functioning democracy. As Mr Azarkan knows, the police are really working on being completely transparent in terms of respect for everyone. Great progress is also being made in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u20	This morning, at our group meeting, we discussed for a very long time what happened yesterday on Dam Square. The key word was actually bewilderment. I'm surprised that we're all so restrained and then this happens. Let us be, we understand that people want to demonstrate, even for this fact, but to this extent? But what really bothers us most is the haze that hangs over the mayor's performance, namely that the nature of this demonstration has been a part of the consideration of whether or not to allow it to continue, including a mayor who is eventually demonstrating with a button on Dam Square. We think it is very important that it is clear that this whole Act is independent of public events and everything surrounding it. Can the Minister confirm that? Would he also like to discuss this with the Amsterdam city council?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u21	I'm going to discuss that at the Security Council, but I'll tell you what I want to discuss with the Amsterdam City Council. And you have already heard what I said in reply to Mr Azarkan that I believe that everyone is equal, including in the exercise of his fundamental rights, including in the exercise of his right to demonstrate, for whatever purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u22	The second question, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u23	The second question. Yesterday at the Dam, tonight at the Malieveld and, I understand, tomorrow in Rotterdam. Rotterdam sets a maximum of 80 participants, but neither does The Hague nor Amsterdam. There are a lot of people who also want to use the fundamental right to go to church, but they have been Maximized to this day; that happens to be inside. Wouldn't it make sense and wouldn't the Minister insist that the number of protesters should be kept to a minimum? 'Cause they all have to take the bus, all by train, and cops have to be ready to do this. The fundamental right to demonstrate fine, but with maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u24	I find that difficult, I'm telling you quite honestly. I can tell you that yesterday, for the first time, I attended a divine service with less than 30 people, also to support the churches that have really been very tough on fully digital services all this time. Demonstrations take place mainly in the outdoors, and as a cabinet we have just said, to open up the matter a little more in society, that we do not connect more numbers to meetings but that we say to people: everywhere and every time 1.5 meters in relation to each other. That must really be in everyone's mind, because we will have to continue to do so in the near future. In this context, I would think it would be a step backwards if we were to work with a maximum number for a certain kind of meeting, in this case demonstrations. This is separate from what a mayor decides on the subject under Article 2 of the Public Events Act, but that is the authority of a mayor. And here too: that is local democracy, and I should not interfere with that as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. Racism is horrible and it is very good that people can use their right to demonstrate themselves against it, but it must of course be safe. In this respect, I also agree with the many questions about how that happened yesterday, but I have a specific question for the Minister about his role. I would like to know from him when he had contact yesterday with the triangle in Amsterdam and Mayor Halsema, what the content of that contact was and what was then exchanged between the minister and the mayor. Because the Minister also has a role to play when it comes to our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u26	In matters of this kind, I shall begin with the legal competence of the mayor in this area of demonstrations, binding regulations, intervention and so on. In practice, the mayor can consult within the so-called triangle of prosecutor and police. I was told after 5 p.m., something about 5 p.m., that the demonstration began to get out of hand in terms of numbers, that there were many, too great emotions to dissolve the demonstration, and that was decided, to prevent police and protestors from coming up against each other, not to keep on the 1.5 metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u27	Second question, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you for this information. Is it true that this communication was made directly to the Minister himself and if so, what was his response? What advice has he given on this communication or perhaps a request for help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u29	I told you, this was a message directly from the mayor to me. I made it clear that I understood the fact that, given the high emotions and the fact that there were many more people than was apparently foreseen, they did not want to come to a confrontation between police and demonstrators and did not, at that time, maintain the 1.5 metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u30	Politicians and mayors have been wandering and preaching for months: "together strong," "together 1.5 meters" and "we make it together." This minister even, persevering in person. And now you get this spectacle on Dam Square, the vain display of Mrs Halsema, who with much vain display of commitment supports a demonstration there. That's crazy. What happened there is a rare example of lawlessness and injustice of law. You can't fix that anymore. It's already happened. That is an affront to all those who are now being prosecuted, entrepreneurs or individuals, because they have been in violation of those 1.5 metres. That's trouble in court. Question to the Minister: Is he prepared to give an indication to the Public Prosecutor that all pending prosecutions against suspects for breach of the one-and-a-half meter regime after this échec, which comes on board by directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u31	No, I'm not prepared to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u32	Then the judge gets very busy! Weathers will be fed everywhere. And then you will be called as a witness, because you said you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u33	I'm not gonna give you a clue like that, so... I don't know what the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u34	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u35	I only had one question. I wanted to know if those prosecutions would be stopped because of legal inequality. But the Minister doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u36	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u37	And he doesn't want the judge to be relieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u38	You made that clear, Mr. Hiddema. Then I go to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party and then to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u39	Black lives matter. I am pleased to hear the cabinet say: the fundamental right to freedom of demonstration, despite the fact that we are in a very complicated time when fundamental rights had to be on the side to avoid major public health dramas, we are going to do so as soon as that can be allowed to happen again. But I am a little concerned about the image that has now emerged about the demonstration yesterday. I understand that the Minister has been informed by the mayor, so he has not been able to conclude on the spot himself what happened there. But I think we should counter the idea that intervention should only be possible by force. Are there calls made: dear people, great that you have come, but it's too busy now, go home? What does the Minister know about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u40	I told you, a letter is being sent today to the Amsterdam City Council. I don't have the information on exactly what happened at the time. I have just answered Mrs Kuik's question, which was at least at 5.05 p.m. the situation that was presented to me at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u41	The second question, Mrs Ouwehand, is in half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I respect that, of course, the Minister did not have the knowledge on the ground. But does he agree with the Animal Party that if the image persists that these people would not have left voluntarily if an appeal had been made, which is detrimental to the movement? Does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that we also want to hear something from the Cabinet in these times when it is demonstrated all over the world against that open, superviolent racism in America, but also against the subtle racism in the Netherlands, which also hurts? That we want to hear from the cabinet: we support this movement and, by the way, we also call on the American ambassador; because with a president saying that we are shooting at citizens who break the law by stealing things, we have a heartfelt word to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u43	I have already indicated, at the request of Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Dam respectively, how, as Minister of Justice, I see the principle of equality in this society. I can repeat that many times, but that is how I look at it fundamentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u44	Crowd management or sending visitors flows: the police in Amsterdam are very good at that. I note that the Mayor of Amsterdam has not taken advantage of all this knowledge and skills and has let this go. I now hear from the Minister that there was contact at 5 p.m. Who contacted the minister? And what was said then? Because the Minister is right to use very harsh words for the Mayor of Amsterdam, but what did the Minister himself do when he was informed at 5 p.m. of the fact that things had gotten out of hand? Did the Minister say: well, then let it go? Or did the minister do anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u45	On the contrary, I haven't qualified yet. Because I said that there is a letter to the Amsterdam city council and that this debate should not take place here but in the Amsterdam city council. So I reject that idea. I can tell you exactly what happened. I had had a brief contact with the mayor, who said that emotions have risen very high here and we have decided not to maintain the 1.5 meters here, because we do not want the police to be put in front of the protesters. After that, I contacted the national chief of police, Mr Van Essen. I found myself at that time, but that's a bit anecdotal in the Waterline Dunes somewhere quite far away, and said to him: I can't keep up well now, but we really need to stay in touch with you to hear if things are happening. I understand that in the end, let's just say, it all broke up peacefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u46	For 50PLUS, the fact is that the Minister in principle approved this demonstration because that is how I listen to the contact between the minister and the mayor despite the fact that the 1.5 meter could not be respected. Therefore, I do not understand why the Minister, if he did call the Chief Constable, did not look for alternatives. What possibilities were there for bringing groups, or some of them, together in another place so that the 1.5 meters could be respected? Why didn't the minister do that hand-off to the mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u47	This is a completely wrong idea of how it works. I just outlined that with the law in my hand. There's no way I'm gonna approve of anything. There is no question of me advising, as I understood from Mrs Kuik's question, on something. As I understand it, yesterday the mayor himself indicated that the Minister has no role in this. I have, however, taken note of the fact that the situation might get out of hand at about 5:00 p.m. in terms of numbers of people and high-rise emotions, shown understanding for the fact that it had been decided not to let the police stay, because then there was a great chance of escalation. That is a decision for which I can still understand on the basis of what was told to me at the time. As far as the alternatives are concerned, I have no role to play in this, but at least I should know what all the circumstances are at that time and what has been done. From the announcement I understood that everything has been done about crowd management, so apparently everything that has been done about crowd management was not enough to control it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u48	Yesterday this played in Amsterdam. I understand that there are still demonstrations planned in Groningen, The Hague and Rotterdam, but I am worried about much smaller municipalities. Those are municipalities that have a lot less people to keep things in order. There are also mayors who do not all have the Minister's direct number. What are we going to do to help mayors of these smaller municipalities so that things can't get out of hand with everything that's going on right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u49	Let me put it this way: a lot of mayors, including small municipalities, have my direct number. If they do not, they will be able to find out very quickly through the chairman of their security region, who has that number. That's one. Two is that I will raise the point raised by Mr Krol at the Security Council this evening, and I will finally base myself on the fact that everyone in the Netherlands has so far focused very much on the existing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u50	I first see Mrs Yeşilgöz on behalf of the VVD, then Mrs Van der Graaf and then Mr Wilders. Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u51	I fully understand the anger of Mr Wilders. I've watched with the same anger, amazement and indignation and listened to Mayor Halsema. In my city, a huge risk has been taken with our safety and our health. I think that's really unacceptable. I would like to return to what the Minister has just said for a moment. Is he saying that he understood the fact that there wouldn't be enforcement because there were so many people, from the idea that the only way in our country to maintain such a great demonstration and to end such a demonstration is with a hard hand? That's what I hear the mayor say. I sincerely wonder: since when do we live in a country where you could only end a demonstration with a stick? Why hasn't anyone spoken to the organizers? Why didn't the Minister ask? How could the Minister have agreed so quickly not to maintain what we saw there: thousands of people on each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u52	It has nothing to do with me being able or allowed to agree to anything. Let's start with that, because that misunderstanding keeps coming back every time. I have also said, on the basis of the information I have outlined, that I fully understand that you have decided not to maintain, given the emotions and so on, and given the fact that there was no desire for police and protesters to stand up against each other, as outlined. It has been a choice at that time to de-escalate. I haven't been involved in the entire corridor to that moment. I cannot make any sense about that either, because there is still a lot of information missing for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u53	We have two 30 seconds here and we don't have all the information yet, but there will be a comprehensive look back. The Minister also says here: I cannot intervene in Amsterdam. Well, the Amsterdammers can. As far as the VVD is concerned, so is it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to look forward for a moment, because demonstrations are announced, no matter how noble the goal, in Groningen, in Rotterdam, in The Hague and in other municipalities. I hear the Minister says I'm going to come back to it tonight at the Security Council. I would like to go a little further than that, and I would like us to take national direction and make agreements on that. It must be said clearly: Maximize the number of demonstrators and be very clear when you intervene and in what way. It can't be that we're going to see the same scenes as in Amsterdam again. You can't do that. Our safety and health must be at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u54	I fully agree with Mrs Yeşilgöz. That is why I said in my introduction: this must not happen again. The first one is more complicated. Until now, each week, in close consultation with the Presidents of the security regions, I have identified the designation and what the emergency measures should be based on it. We have also discussed this with each other once in a while. We've always gotten out. This should be put on the agenda in the same way, but ultimately, to every local situation, in our Dutch system, it is a responsibility of local authority. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the corona crisis we chose very clearly not to resort, for example, to the Co-ordination Act, which would create a kind of emergency situation in which Prime Minister Rutte and yours truly, without parliamentary interference, would be in charge. That's not our country. But that also means that in these situations we need to come out in good consultation with each other and with good arguments. I'm sure that'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u55	People in the country are seeing a difference right now. They can't visit family and can't say goodbye to a dying family member. Then it hurts to see such a crowded Dam. People see a difference: the moment you're in the park, you're fined, but not if you're taking part in a demonstration, because the mayor thinks it's so important. Then it grinds and the support in our society for the corona measures comes under pressure. I would like to ask the Minister the following, because people feel that there is arbitrariness. It is important that we give the right of demonstration all the space and I am glad that the Minister says the same. But what line does the Minister intend to take here? He has the opportunity today to lay down a new national line, to support the mayors, politicians, enforcers and boas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u56	When we talk about all the other topics covered by the corona restrictions, I think we are very much in line. I started my introduction here, I will not repeat it here, about how well the reopening of restaurants, museums and so on has gone. I think we are now seeing for the first time at this demonstration that something has not gone well; let us be quite clear, because that is the case. We will have to talk to each other about this and say, "How are we going to make sure that this doesn't happen again?', Also to prevent people from feeling like there's some kind of randomness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u57	It is now clear how it has gone. Mrs. Halsema has completely failed and has allowed the Dam to flow. When she felt wet, she picked up the phone and called the minister. The minister was somewhere at a holiday park or somewhere in the dunes, I just understood. He said, well, you know, fine all of you; call the chief of police. So you let it happen. The mayor felt wet and called you, and you didn't say, "This is unacceptable, this can't be done and this is against the rules. People at home get a fine of a few hundred euros if they don't stick to the 1.5 meter distance on the street. You can't do this." No wonder you didn't fire her. My question to the Minister is as follows. Your harsh remark yesterday at the end of the day, namely that it was unacceptable what it looked like, is now in a completely different light if you have been called earlier and you have just let it pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u58	First of all, I'd like to correct something. I've been on the phone with the Chief Constable. Maybe the mayor did, but I called, like I just said, after the meeting with the national police chief. That's one. Two. I'm not gonna qualify things; that's not up to me. I have clearly received the message: emotions are running high and that is why we have decided not to dissolve the demonstration. That is what has been presented to me. I have to say it very precisely: because emotions are on the rise and we do not want the police to face protesters. I am ultimately the one responsible for the entire police force, which is also in my ministry. I have indeed said: I understand that, in that situation and on the basis of that information, we are not going to use the police to maintain, given the situation that there was apparently a very emotional atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u59	What a complete bullshit story! You say "an emotional atmosphere," but you just mean that there might be violence otherwise. They were left-wing anarchist types, maybe not all, but a lot. Those people just threatened and you were afraid there would be violence. This means that the minister has agreed and capitulated for left-wing activists who threatened with violence if the law were to be enforced. And that's wrong. You may not be guilty of that, but you did. Mr President, I come to my final point. Mayor Halsema has failed on all sides. She failed, she let it happen, she didn't intervene, she let it happen. Article 61b, the first paragraph, says that the minister can at any time dismiss the mayor by royal decree. I ask you once again: fire Mrs Halsema, because she is totally unfit for her profession and has shirt half of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u60	I have already explained here how it works in the Netherlands with local democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u61	Last night, the Minister spoke in rather harsh terms about the events in Amsterdam. Now we hear in Question Time that he did have contact with Mayor Halsema and that he also expressed his understanding of the choice not to dissolve that demonstration. I understand the consideration of both the mayor and the minister to prevent the police and the protesters from coming to a violent confrontation there, very well. But Mrs Yeşilgöz also already asked: there are a lot of other options to end such a demonstration, for example by simply asking the people to go home or to spread out more over the city? There are all kinds of ways to maintain that 1.5 meter without having to go straight to the ticket or apply violence. In view of his previous answer here in Question Time, my question to the Minister is: can he send the Chamber what conversation has been exchanged between him and the mayor, so that both the Chamber and the Amsterdam Council can carry out the controlling task properly and check what went wrong yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u62	Let's get this over with. I have just said that I was told in that contact that all the crowd measures had been implemented. Then I also assume at that moment that there is apparently an ultimatum-remedium situation. I think I can rely on that at the same time. Let's put it down real good. This is something about five in the afternoon, when that demonstration has been going on for a long time. I think that is a very important point. I think, as has been said, that first the information should be sent to the city council and the debate should be held in the city council. By the way, let me be clear, I will have no objection to delivering correspondence from my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u63	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u64	I have the following question: how do you qualify Mrs Halsema's behavior? She herself stood among those people and made a political statement. Maybe that's not even the most striking thing. She is also the leader of a crisis situation in the city at that time. Then how do you qualify the person in charge of such a crisis, simply meddling with the protesters and staying there happy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u65	Again, this is just part of the careful review of the whole process. First, the city council needs to be informed of exactly what happened in the run-up to this and why certain things have run the way they have. There's no way I'm going to anticipate that. I would also say that it is not me either, but rather the Minister of the Interior, possibly. But certainly not to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u66	Thank you. Then we'll go to the next question. We'll wait until the Secretary of Defense arrives.
