ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mrs E. Veder-Smit. I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Els Veder-Smit, who died three days before her 99th birthday on 26 August. She was a member of the First Chamber of the States-General for the VVD for almost ten years, from 25 August 1981 to 11 June 1991. Elizabeth Veder-Smit was born on 29 August 1921 in Kinderdijk, in a family of ship owners and shipbuilders, both on the mother's side and on the father's side. After elementary school in her hometown, she obtained her Gymnasium-a degree in Dordrecht in May 1940. Els Smit then studied Dutch law at Utrecht University. From 1954 Veder-Smit worked in the public administration, as a popular representative on behalf of the VVD and as a director. Until 1962 she was a member of the Provinceal States of Utrecht and a member of the city council and alderman of Zeist, the youngest female alderman of the Netherlands. After moving to Leeuwarden, she was a member of the city council of the Frisian capital from 1962 to 1966. In 1967, Els Veder-Smit was elected as a member of the House of Representatives. She remained until January 1978, when she became Secretary of State in the first Van Agt cabinet. Veder-Smit was in charge of the Public Health and Environmental Hygiene portfolio. As a MP, Veder-Smit often managed to achieve a number of goals that were important for the emancipation of women in good cooperation with MPs from other parties. She made sure that the pill came into the health insurance fund and was at the cradle of current abortion legislation. Els Veder-Smit also had public health in her portfolio in the Eerste Kamer. In March 1988, at the end of her contribution to the debate on the Tobacco Act, she addressed directly to the President of the Chamber. Until then, her plea was to support the purpose of the legislative proposal, which is to limit smoking. According to Veder-Smit, the First Chamber could also set a good example. I quote: 'and because of the relic that is located next to the entrance to our Chamber, 'you would almost say: the smoke rack or the butt rack'. Or should this piece of furniture be brought under the Monument Law?" As far as I know, the latter has never happened, but Els Veder-Smit has been able to see in the years after that deliberate debate that there has been a total ban on smoking and that the 'butt rack' or 'cigar cabinet', as it is now known, is a permanent stop in the guided tours of our building, but as far as we know, has not been in use for years. In 1965, Els Veder-Smit was a UN Women's Representative and gave a speech at the United Nations General Assembly. Looking back on her political career, Veder-Smit called the men's world of politics "no problem" at the time. I quote: "I had experience with VVD men. Those who start with bullying and bullying, but stay calm and have a good answer ready, then there is no dirt left in the air." It's been noted. In addition to her political career, Els Veder-Smit was still active until very old age. She was honorary chairman of the National Cross Association and chairman of STOOM, the Foundation for Research and Development Social Health. She also worked for art, culture and heritage. For example, she was chairman of the Zeister Kunstkring and founder of the Dutch Porcelain Foundation. In 1981 Veder-Smit was appointed Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion and ten years later Commander of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In 1989 she received the medal with a certificate from the Health Care Foundation '82 and in 1998 she received the honorary membership of the VVD. Els Veder-Smit was known as a committed and passionate politician with an eye for others. She was a pioneer in Dutch politics, especially in the fields of emancipation and public health. In her words: not because she was "such a reformer," but because she felt it was necessary. May our respect for her person and her merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-eerstekamer-4.u2	Thank you. After the end of this meeting, I will, together with the Registrar, pay my condolences to the representative of the family on behalf of the Chamber. Only Mrs Jorritsma, chairman of the group of whom Mrs Veder-Smit was a member, will be present in connection with the corona measures. We now come to the end of the sitting.
