ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35054, the Supplementary Act Sound Environment Act. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Environment and Living to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u3	Good morning, Minister. Good morning, President. Let me start by naming what I have had for involvement in the Ministry under the new Environment Act in the past. In 2014, as a self-employed person, as a former alderman, I advised the then Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment on the Environment Act. This concerned in particular an inventory of the extent to which local authorities were already preparing for and involved in the implementation of the Environment Act and how this involvement could be increased in particular. I have also dealt with the wider scope of the environmental plan. That means that this does not prevent an independent assessment of my side of the subject. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about one of the supplementary laws and decisions, namely noise. Soon we'll discuss the soil. For the VVD Group, it is important that the supplemental laws and decisions fit within the framework and purpose of the Environmental Act, laid down in the four improvements and more than twenty principles. Only then will we ensure that this huge legislative operation really leads to deregulation, more transparency and clarity, in short: that the law becomes simple and better and leads to faster and more effective decision-making and perseverance for the local authorities in the spatial domain. The fact that "simple" is important is also evident from the article in the NRC. The VVD also drew attention to the link with the improved cars in the written round of questions. There were signs from the umbrella organisations and large municipalities that the policy-rich incorporation of Swung 2 legislation in particular threatened to disrupt the underlying objective of the Environment Act. We are therefore pleased that the Minister has continued the discussion with the umbrella organisations in recent times and that much of the criticism has now been taken up. It is also good that the consequences of the proposed shift of powers for the noise of trains on railway emplacements should be discussed at the administrative table of the emplacement project. Could the Minister comment on the results of the administrative consultation with the umbrella organisations last week on Tuesday 4 February? Mr. Chairman. One of the most important improvements of the implementation of the Environmental Act is to increase the local administrative balancing area. In the subject of noise, equal protection, health, safety and environmental quality are of course important principles. In the drafting of the legislation, it is sometimes found that the improvements and starting points conflict with each other. In these cases, therefore, a political choice is needed. Those choices are made on a case-by-case basis, without prior fixing that one purpose or starting point outweighs the other. There is therefore an important consideration that needs to be discussed in this House. Has that balance been found to a sufficient extent? Has the present decision struck the right balance between protecting people's health and exploiting development opportunities with sufficient local consideration space, especially in view of the huge housing challenge ahead of us? This is also mentioned in the opinion of the Integral Advisory Committee on the Environment. Can the Minister say again how she weighs that balance? In the reply of 15 November last, the Minister indicated that RIVM is also working on an opinion on the transmission of the WHO opinion of October 2018 and that the cabinet will soon take a position on this. This WHO opinion may lead to a further tightening of noise policy. Nevertheless, the VVD Group is concerned that we are currently trying to establish the right balance, with careful consideration and a discussion with all the local authorities, but that then in a separate process that is going to be disrupted again, by additional tightening of that regulation. Can the Minister reassure us on this point? One final point is, of course, the monitoring and monitoring of the developments of the sound system. After all, we're going to work with Swung-2 again. Can the Minister indicate how she will follow the implementation practice, in particular the newly introduced systems, such as noise production ceilings for industrial sites and provincial roads and the basic noise emission for municipal roads and waterways? How's that gonna be followed? The monitoring also includes the insight into how the administrative burden and the implementation costs for local authorities will ultimately be met. Can the Minister promise us that if these burdens on the local authorities are too heavy, at least the Empire will go around the table with them? Finally, Mr President. For monitoring, it is important that the sound data is recorded in a digital system. Can the Minister tell us when this central source of sound data will be available to us? Mr President, I will conclude. The VVD Group looks forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. I call Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA notes that the First Chamber debated the intention of the Environment Act on 27 and 28 January. This intention also applies to the Supplementary Noise Act and the Supplementary Noise Act. For the sake of clarity, we refer to the contribution we made at that time. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, the CDA wishes to address the following issues: 1. The process of co-government. 2. The inner urban development. 3. Cumulation of sound. 4. The quality of the professionals in the execution. 5. The finances. 6. The provincial authority to take over the decision-making process. First of all, the trial. The CDA notes that there has been a careful process to develop the latest implementing technical points on the supplemental rail noise with the domes, VNG, IPO and Union of Water Councils. There is one point that the CDA Group has not succeeded in achieving. That is where I come back at the end of my contribution. Then the second point, the inner city development. The CDA believes that the inner city development is important for the vitality of the cities. The Minister considers that the noise rules do not prevent an integral consideration of inner urban development. The additional balancing space simplifies building at high-load locations; the VVD just talked about it. The CDA is pleased with that. The balance between protecting people's health on the one hand and exploiting development opportunities on the other hand, with sufficient room for consideration at local level, will have to stimulate, among other things, the housing statement we are putting together. Now that the noise aspect has been regulated, the CDA asks the Minister to what extent the "Nuclear Problems" again inhibit this incentive for housing in those inner urban areas. The third point is the accumulation of noise. Question 40 deals with the accumulation of noise. The draft decision provides for at least noise from other traffic, industrial sites, aviation, wind turbines, shooting ranges and jumping areas to be involved in assessing the acceptability of the accumulated noise. Can the Minister explain how noise from aviation will be included in the legislative proposal? Do the legal standards for noise and external safety risks in the Aviation Act weigh as much as those of other sectors in the Environmental Act? We MPs have also received letters about this from residents and from SATL from Dalfsen. The fourth point is the quality of professionals in the execution. In the debate on the Environment Act, our group has explicitly called for attention to be paid to the quality of professionals in municipalities, provinces and water boards, but certainly also in the environmental services. The CDA wants to draw attention to these professionals, because they take responsibility for their execution. It is very important that the implementation is well organised, as it also contributes to confidence in the government or in the government in general. How does the Empire give this necessary impetus and what is the multi-annual state funding for this? Particular attention should also be paid to the licensing, monitoring and enforcement component. Can the Minister also comment on this? The next point is finance. These members note that it has been agreed between the government and the Empire that an integral financial picture will be drawn up prior to the entry into force of the new system. Structural and incidental resources play a role in the implementation of this legislation. "Sira Consulting has examined the financial effects of the Supplementary Decision. This concerns the regulatory burden on companies and the administrative burden on municipalities. Both structural and one-off effects were considered. In the case of regulatory pressure, these are costs arising from information obligations (administrative charges) and substantive obligations (compliance costs). The investigation shows that the regulatory pressure effects of the Supplementary Decision are very limited. This is because the rules focus mainly on the competent authority. There is little or no substantial change in the content of the commitments to industry. The decision could lead to a slight reduction in the regulatory burden of around EUR 0.5 million per year." This is a quote from the Minister. Municipalities face one-off costs to determine the basic noise emission of their road surface area and to set noise production ceilings around industrial sites. In addition, there are so-called "knowledge costs'. Sira estimates the one-off costs of this at a total amount of between 7 and 20 million euros. That is a very large bandwidth for municipalities. Can the Minister himself provide insight into the structural yield and the incidental costs for the municipalities? Has the UNG agreed to these figures and where can we read that, I ask the Minister? Can the Minister undertake to include this information in the latest progress report on the future royal decision? Mr. Chairman. Then the final point. I had already announced it in my first paragraph: the retention of jurisdiction for the provinces. It is an appropriate subject: does the province retain the power to take over the decision-making process from municipalities? Policy-neutral transposition is the starting point for environmental legislation and also for the complementary laws. It is striking that the Minister does not adhere to this on one part. This is also striking because the joint provinces do not fully agree with the Minister on this point. The CDA does not agree with the scheme for regional industrial sites, which goes beyond municipal boundaries and which is included in the legislative proposal. This means that provinces only set noise production ceilings for regional industrial sites at the request of the city council. This differs from the present Noise Act, which allows the province to take decisions in the case of industrial sites of regional interest. To this end, the province must of course have designated the industrial site as such by provincial regulation under the Environmental Management Act or under the Spatial Planning Act. Of course, in exercising this competence, the provinces must take account of subsidiarity and proportionality. As the written round of questions shows, the CDA believes that the power to take decisions should continue to exist. The Minister has indicated that this issue is not really a serious issue for the government and that it is prepared to engage with IPO and VNG. Another trial answer. Can the Minister comment on the substance of the CDA's position and the question it raises? We would like a substantive answer from the Minister during this debate. We will therefore assess, on the basis of the Minister's reply, whether we will table a motion on this subject in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. In advance, I ask for some clemency in terms of time, because in view of the topicality, I had to add some text following news about the report of the Inspection Environment and Transport that came to us on Sunday evening via the media. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I could largely repeat my objections to the Environmental Law Introduction Act. I will also do this later in adapted form on the Soil Supplementary Act, because it applies even more to that area than to noise as far as I am concerned. Soil is an important part of protecting our environment, with irreparable consequences if something goes wrong. It's different when it comes to sound. In the administrative practice of licensing and enforcement, there is often a difference between nuisances which, by the way, can also be sickening, and I do nothing about them. Mr. Chairman. I told you before: I cannot ignore the topicality, the report of the employees of the Inspection Environment and Transport. They looked at the practical results of securing national interests in municipal and provincial plans and the results are staggering as far as I am concerned. Serious omissions with potentially disastrous consequences. I'm just looking at the fireworks store, for example. We wouldn't have done that anymore, had Mans established in his report. The practice we have now established with each other must then be the basis for further tasks and powers, which apparently cannot be carried out properly. It may be a question of asking over on the part of the Empire or a question of eating over on the part of the local authorities. Can they do it all? In the letter the Minister sent us yesterday, she indicated that the ILT and the Ministry did not recognize themselves in the picture. Now I personally find that to be of lesser concern. I think that the staff who did the research and prepared the report at the ILT do not recognize themselves in the Minister's letter, just as they did not recognize the picture in the annual report. I am much more concerned about that. The professionalism of employees should simply be given space and, after eight years of chairing the most leading environmental service in the Netherlands, I have experienced how important it is to take professionals seriously and also give them the space for critical comments and critical comments. In my opinion, this is not happening here. The discussion now seems to shift to the messengers, while the message itself is alarming, especially in the light of the Environment Act, especially when we talk about trust as a basis. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the Supplementary Act and the question on my part as to when the DSO will be sufficiently well equipped to inform citizens when they will consult the DSO for sound data. Is the central system sound data now in order? And could the Minister perhaps explain again why this intermediate step has been chosen rather than being properly integrated directly into the DSO? What about the conversations with the domes about this? Is the DSO going to deliver what has been promised at this point or does the minister see a DSO on the horizon without soil information? Does it think that this is conceivable and does it consider it desirable? Mr. Chairman. A choice that evokes incomprehension among many people is that it has been chosen to keep air traffic outside the Environmental Act. We get a lot of reports about this not only me, but all of us, I think, because people honestly don't understand that. It's like the government's afraid of something. Is she perhaps afraid to fall victim to the own vague standards introduced by the Environment Act? I would like a clear explanation from the Minister on this point, so that I can explain it to people myself. So far, I cannot find the valid arguments myself. (NL) Mr President, the industrial sites. When does the Minister expect white smoke from IPO and VNG in terms of industrial sites of regional importance? Did that smoke come out of the chimneys of the domes on January 4th? As far as I am concerned, the texts of the further reply are anything but encouraging. I quote: "At the administrative level, the intention is to closely monitor the developments of the sound system. Further arrangements will be made on how to shape this, first of all by following closely the operation of the noise rules of the supplemental track noise in policy practice, in particular for components which are substantially different from the current rules, such as noise production ceilings for industrial sites and provincial roads and the basic noise emissions for municipal roads and watercourses." Then it goes through a number of sentences, but it still exudes on all sides that the governments have no idea how it is going to work out. That's what I read in it. Moreover, there is still no idea what it will cost, as shown by the agreements made in the management agreement. The occasional introduction costs must keep structural management costs in balance, but that does not sound like an extremely attractive perspective, if incidental costs are so high that the structural benefits are only in the long term, for which no one knows how long they are, they cover incidental costs. It does not stand still, so my question is whether development costs are included. It's never finished and never finished. How are we supposed to see that? Are those costs ever paid back at all? Mr. Chairman. Let me return to the ceiling system, whether it is for noise or for emissions. Should I now look at this as simply an enlightening question to the Minister that there is some sort of dome idea, in which the dome can be filled by area? If so, where is the idea that best available techniques, which are constantly being developed, and innovations contribute to improving the quality of the environment? Can this ceiling be filled over and over again with improved techniques, or will that ceiling fall with the technical stand and thereby improve the living environment? Would the Minister clarify that to me again? Does the environment share in the blessings of innovations and advanced technology? Does the Minister share my view that the environment deserves constant improvement? That's what we do for each other. Does the Minister agree with me that the WTO targets should be the aim of a government that stands up for the health of its citizens? These targets are not for nothing, but for people's health. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Isn't it true that noise laws and rules are slowly becoming so complicated, and now they are not becoming simpler, that it is very difficult for citizens, but also for municipalities, to defend themselves against plans that affect the environment? Doesn't it make it so complicated that soon those with the thickest wallet read: companies with the greatest interests can hire the best advisors and thus by definition create an uneven playing field? We can now see this in the nitrogen debate, for example. This is not about the roofing permits and roofing chapels, which we talk about so often in the context of the Environment Act and of which we always see the examples. Let me give you a practical example, just because I've been there, because it's still playing and still hasn't been resolved. I can't wait to see how that's gonna go under the Environment Act. If you, as a citizen, have a ship repair yard in your immediate vicinity, how do you fight nest noise? For the sake of clarity, that is not the cheerful chirping of just-born birds, but it is about the monotonous, drinning roar of heavy aggregates and ship engines of ships at the quay for example for repair or maintenance. It's called nesting noise. Ships are a special category in any case when we talk about noise pollution; therefore, this question from the practical point of view. Where does this nest noise of ships take place in this new structure of noise production ceilings? At present the noise load of work on ships is covered by the environmental permit, but the noise load from the nest noise is not covered by the environmental permit. The Council of State is busy with it until two weeks ago when the final verdict was reached. For residents, it doesn't matter at all, because the nuisance doesn't get any less. They're just experiencing that sound. Can the Minister outline to me the situation under the Environment Act? In concrete terms, I would like an answer to the question of whether nest noise should be included in the setting of noise production ceilings at industrial sites with maritime activities. A little litmus test for the Environment Act, I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. Then I will be able to come out in due course, because previous speakers have already asked technical questions and others will undoubtedly do the same after me. This means that I do not need to repeat it in my contribution and can therefore also limit my contribution, given the time I have spent on topicality. If I may finish my last two sentences, I look forward to the answer given by the Minister, asking her in her reply to give ample attention to how she thinks citizens can still find their way in this law, which also applies to municipalities and protect themselves from companies with long-term knowledge. How is the Minister going to prevent this from becoming an unequal fight?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr President, may I put a question through you to Mr Janssen, but also, of course, to the Minister, about the nesting noise of ships? I saw everyone pulling out a little bit, but it is actually a good thing that you are asking, because this is a striking example. We're going to look at things much more integrally now. The nesting noise of ships at the quay can of course also affect citizens. The Council of State made a rather dramatic statement two weeks ago. I understand, from someone who might know, that the entire port of Rotterdam is going down because there is too much noise, even in view of the current standards, because this is not even the Environment Act of course. That therefore requires consideration. Perhaps you could say a little more about that. So we have to take new measures: no more ships, no more nest noise, hotel functions with electric rather than diesel generators. It is one of many examples. The advantage of an integral consideration is that you see it all, but it's always been there, so it has nothing to do with the Environment Act. How do we solve it in the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u9	My question to the Minister is therefore whether it has been resolved in the Environment Act, whether it falls within or outside the noise reduction ceilings. The Council of State's ruling on this is that in Schiedam in this case, at this yard, the facility is limited to the quay, but not the ship at the quay, or the noise, unless it is inside. Then you'll get another review. So it's a matter of how you grant the license. If the Environment Act is meant to find a solution to this problem, this is something that has been going on for years. The Council of State is busy with it. You don't flatten the entire port, but if nest noise counts within the sound production ceiling, that's clear. Then everyone knows what he's up to. But you can't pretend it's not there when people do have the trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u10	One more point. This has nothing to do with the Environment Act, because all these standards already apply. The Council of State has now, of course, ruled on the basis of existing regulations, not on the basis of the Environment Act. So adding up these things, which means that even if they could, there's nothing to do with the Environment Act. It is a problem, and that is my substantive question to you. The result of the Council of State's conclusion is that a number of companies are no longer able to operate there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u11	I think there's going to be sound production ceilings. So the point is whether you solve this within those sound production ceilings. Is it gonna count or not? Because it could have been licensed now. However, the Council of State stated that the licence was not in order because the ship at the quay was not licensed, because that space was not allowed in the establishment. So if you put your limit on the water line, it counts and then you have a problem, because then it's additional. My question is: has that been resolved now that there is some kind of dome noise production ceiling to which it should be added? Otherwise it's still a plus for the neighbors on the maximum ceiling that should actually be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. With the inclusion of the subject of noise within the framework of the Environmental Act, chapter 11 of the Environmental Policy Act and the Noise Act will be incorporated into the system and at the same time the policy renewal resulting from the Swung project, which is about cooperating on the implementation of new noise policy, will be implemented. The D66 Group took note with interest of the answers to the many questions. What remains as a concern for the fraction of D66 is the health of people who, in various situations, may be more affected by noise pollution, without being able to change it themselves. The figures on the health effects due to noise are rather intense. According to RIVM, our own independent scientific institute, approximately 84 heart attacks are caused every year in the Netherlands by exposure to noise from road traffic. After particulate matter, noise from road traffic and passive smoking are in the Netherlands at the shared second place of factors in the physical environment that cause the most disease burden. This is also apparent from the World Health Organisation's research. In my speech I will discuss a number of situations that may have health effects. I will also ask for a response from the Minister in each case. Mr. Chairman. In the Tijdschrift voor Bouwrecht there was an interesting article in 2019. The title of the article was The Slidespace for Sound in the Decision Quality Living Environment. The author was Mrs. Buitenhuis. In this article, it elaborates on the concept of acceptable noise levels. She writes about this "an environmental plan must take account of activities on sound-sensitive buildings. An environmental plan shall provide that noise is acceptable and an environmental plan shall take into account the importance of protecting health." The city council has degrees of freedom to implement that. For example, he can play a role in municipal noise policy, history and complaints patterns. A balance of interest between the protection and use of the physical environment should make it clear which level of noise is acceptable. Under certain circumstances, the city council may also set a lower, higher or different value or not include any value in the environmental plan. That's also called the sliding room. Last week I discussed the balance between protecting and exploiting. The impact of noise on public health must be balanced against the interests of the economy and housing. National noise standards may be exceeded if there are good arguments for this. In short, there will be more degrees of freedom for this balancing of interests. In my introduction, I indicated why health in relation to sound is such an important topic for our group of D66. This leads to the following questions to the Minister. Are municipalities actually sufficiently equipped to consider acceptable noise levels? Can municipalities assess the impact on public health? What is meant by significant economic or other serious interests in order to deviate? Can the Minister give a more detailed explanation of this? The Crisis and Recovery Act, the cradle of which I have stood and which I have made in the end, allowed derogations from standards in specific situations, but included the provision that the environmental quality standards laid down by law had to be complied with after 10 years at the latest. The Environmental Act appears to be open-ended: standards may be continually adjusted downwards. Now the Crisis and Recovery Act is incorporated into the Environment Act. My question to the Minister is what this means for the standards that are being adapted. Is the principle of the Crisis and Recovery Act that after ten years everything has to be back to the desired environmental quality or is the environmental law based on the principle that this can be permanently adjusted downwards? I come to my argument about peak sounds, but first give a technical introduction. We see that the noise values in Articles 2.17 and 2.17a of the Activity Decision correspond to the values in Article 5.65 in conjunction with Table 2.65. There is one exception, and I would like to comment on that. That exception concerns the maximum noise level for peak noises, to which the legislator no longer imposes mandatory requirements during the day. It is possible that the city council makes these demands, but that is a free choice of the city council. And now the World Health Organisation has shown that peak noises, even during the day, can cause major health damage. There are no less than 785,000 people on night shifts in the Netherlands. We sometimes forget that; we often work during the day. But about 8.7% of all workers in the Netherlands have night shifts. So those are people who work in health care, in the hospitality, in the police, in the fire department or, like this week with those big storms, on the tracks. We could take the train to The Hague today and yesterday because many people have been working on the track all night this week to remove trees and branches. It allows people to go back to work during the day. We forget that sometimes. It is therefore about almost 800,000 people in the Netherlands for whom that is the daily reality. These people work at night and want to rest and sleep during the day. But now the noise standards during the day have actually been declared outlawed, which in my view makes them there as a resident of a home that are the people with night shifts mostly; they have a roof over their head so they go very much backwards without having the opportunity to do anything about it. So my group and I are concerned about these peak noises during the day and the disappearance of standards. My question to the Minister is therefore: why is there not something explicitly regulated for peak noises in this supplemental law, especially in the light of the advice of the World Health Organisation? Another question is: does the Minister recognise that the absence of maximum noise levels is an omission that needs to be repaired, even in the interests of all those workers at night? Then I come to another flaw of the law, namely the accumulation of sound. In several situations, there is no need to take any further account of noise accumulation. For example, façade insulation in the context of noise restoration in public infrastructure or railways. Now in the Netherlands there are many villages, remote areas where there are traces, or in residential areas often centuries-old houses, from even before the time of noise legislation. For the indoor values of these houses we hardly hear any regulations about noise pollution. A second point is that in recent years government policy has been very focused on additional housing around stations. The NS locations are even very popular. So that's where a lot of housing takes place. There may not be any current residents, because these houses still have to be built, but there are future residents. So they're getting very close to living on the railroad. My question to the Minister is: in the case of railways, does cumulation not need to be taken into account? Why not? And what does it mean for railway residents who have lived in these villages for centuries? How can it be prevented that neighbors and new residents, who are just getting a home near the station, will suffer more from living in the vicinity of the railway? Mr. Chairman. My predecessors, Mr Rietkerk and Mr Janssen, have already asked good questions about aviation. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is happy to endorse this. And with that, I can go to the end of my speech. Last week, the Minister made a commitment to have an independent committee monitor the operation and practice of the Environment Act annually. In doing so, the Minister has promised that monitoring will focus in particular on the balance between protecting and exploiting the environment. My question to the Minister is: can she promise that the monitoring will explicitly address the use of the room for noise standards and, in particular, the health effects of residents and perhaps also their complaints?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. The members of the Christian Union Group have expressed their appreciation for the great effort made by the Ministry, the provinces, the water authorities and the municipalities to arrive at a clear, accessible and simpler system, in which confidence and space for initiative are fundamental principles. They would like to express this appreciation again, both in relation to the system in general and to the Supplementary Act sound and the Supplementary Decision sound in particular. We also express our appreciation for all officials who have worked and worked to achieve a good system. The Christian Union Group agrees with the three pillars of noise policy: combating uncontrolled growth, reducing high noise loads and promoting source noise. In the preliminary report of the Permanent Committee, the Christian Union Group asked whether the Supplementary Noise Act and the Supplementary Noise Act lead to better quality and more coherence in the legislation relating to noise. The Minister's reply, I refer to the reply, on page 39, is convincing to us. The Minister rightly points out that the quality of legislation and rules is determined not only by the regulation of laws and rules but also by the instrument package and the terminology used. I would also like to make a connection here with the ILT report that appeared yesterday in connection with a publication in the NRC. This report affects the implementation practice of local authorities. There are two reasons for the factual defects. The first is that the regulation is perceived as complicated. And second, there are different interests and roles. This brings the group to the following questions. How does the Minister assess the complexity of the supplementary noise law in the light of the ILT report? Can the Minister also undertake to examine the complexity of the law experienced by civil servants when evaluating the supplementary legislation? Secondly, how does the Minister assess the different interests and roles of noise? Is this cause adequately addressed by the Change of Working Programme? And how does that happen? Mr. Chairman. Other colleagues have also pointed out that in the reply and in the note on the report much attention has been paid to the noise production ceilings of regional industrial sites. In the old law, the province has the power to take decisions. In the new law, this can only be done at the request of the city council. In the reply, on pages 23 and 40, the Government indicated that this is not a serious issue for it and that it is prepared to come up with an alternative regime of jurisdiction in consultation with IPO and VNG. Our question is therefore: what is the state of play with IPO and VNG? I also agree with Mr Rietkerk's question: why was a policy-rich transposition chosen in this respect? I also ask this because there are concerns about this in my own home province of Limburg. Among other things, it concerns the gigantic industrial area Chemelot, which covers 800 hectares. Mr. Chairman. I come to another point. Traffic electrification is expected to increase rapidly. The general expectation is that this will lead to a reduction in road noise production. Our group has three questions about this. The first question is: does the Minister share this general expectation? The second question is: at what point will this actually lead to a reduction in sound production? As a third question, which is ultimately the most important: does the Minister intend to make this reduction in sound production accompanied by a reduction in the standards for sound production? This is what we are asking for, particularly in view of the importance for public health, which Mr Moonen has addressed in detail. Mr. Chairman. In its opinion, the Council of State states that it is not clear to what extent the bill complies with the principle of equal protection. All the documents show that the Minister believes that this is the case. In the debate on the Environmental Law Introduction Act, the Minister undertook to arrive at an independent evaluation of the Environmental Law. Can the Minister promise that this will also apply to the supplementary legislation? Can the Commission also promise that this review will give explicit consideration to the impact of this law on the protection of citizens, and thus also on the balance between exploitation and protection? Mr. Chairman. I come to one last, small point. In the note following the report, we read on page 2 that agreement has been reached with the domes on the last implementing technical points for the supplemental track noise. The agreements would be confirmed on 4 February. Our question is therefore: what is the state of play? Our group looks forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk almost cut me off with his remark about electric driving, because I wanted to end with that and I will. Indeed, if everyone drives electric, we get the same thing as around 1900, when it was dead quiet in the streets of New York, because then everyone drove carriages and horses, but there was a big problem of manure in the street. There were predictions that there would be a meter of manure lying in the streets of New York. Ten years later, there was no smell, because then everybody drove fuel engines. Then the problem of the manure was solved, but then the noise came slowly. I will come back to it at the end and ask the government to make firm commitments to promote electric driving, which they are doing, of course. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about the law itself. This is one of the questions we're really talking about. It's not about the procedures, it's about the content. We have had two detailed written rounds and now we have the final vote in plenary. Like Mr Verkerk, I am grateful for the commitment of many officials, not only in The Hague, but certainly also in provinces, municipalities, water authorities, and administrators, who have been involved in this. I am also curious to see how they will look back on it in a few years' time and whether it has indeed brought the improvements we all want. This special Supplementary Act sound has a long history. We are not discussing the substantive benchmarks right now, as they were already laid down in Swung-2 in 2013. So we are not talking about policy-neutral with respect to other noise laws but with regard to Swung-2. That is our benchmark, so policy neutral compared to Swung-2. That is our first test and we have the idea that this is broadly true, although we are always looking not only for policy-neutral but also for a few improvements and certainly not for deterioration. Our second key, apart from policy-neutral, is the balance between protecting and exploiting. Of course, drivers, initiators and companies often want to use it, but other citizens will suffer from it. This balance between economic and social activities is essential for housing, traffic, activity and so on. And then I say that, fortunately, there are a number of aspects which could now be improved through the obligation of consideration contained in the Supplementary Act and in the Environmental Act itself. We must also bear in mind that advantage. The answers are often very technical, but it shows that there is a policy-neutral transposition, but that the introduction of the noise production ceilings (GPPs), which many others have also talked about, should take into account over the next ten years. That's a really nice new point. You must already show what the growth of noise will be in the next ten years, and then you have to take that into account. Those Gpps are really a profit point, because they have to be done in advance and not afterwards. This is not the case under the current Noise Act. Eufemistically speaking, there is now so much called a'maintaining hole' in the texts. So now at the start of a construction project or at an industrial site you determine what the situation is, but if the noise increases, then you have a enforcement hole. It is a gain that we are now getting production ceilings with a ten-year horizon ahead, but what will happen to the citizens who are now in the enforcement hole? They must also be able to make a claim on something, such as: noise has increased, what are we going to do about it? Surely that should also be one of the winning points of the new balancing area in the Environmental Act? Another aspect I would like to raise is the philosophy of the Environmental Law and the consideration of exploiting and protecting. This is not a licence to simply throw all the standards overboard, as I sometimes hear, because decentralisation is still bound and strongly limited by national standards. And they remain a strong determining factor. For example, the national standard values are taken as the starting point. That is something that should be limited to the limit values, and there really must be good arguments for that. And beyond the limit values, you can only be in a very exceptional situation. I ask the Minister to confirm that. That is, of course, relevant, and I would have liked to have brought it in earlier on the basis of yesterday's report. Maybe the municipalities haven't done things right in recent years, but in the future they will be bound by the Environment Act to instructional rules. I understand that there are not only procedures but also strict substantive criteria. That raises the question to the Minister whether I see that correctly. Then the ILT report is a very strong warning, because we just need to see if things are going well. But we're not going to get some sort of ticking lists from The Hague, because that's the other side of the case again, which, procedurally, makes everything stick again? So the content of the test must be very strong. That's a warning from the ILT report. But before you know it, we're back in a new paraphrase culture of municipalities and provinces to the Empire. Moreover, it may differ, certainly from the limit values, not for purely financial reasons, such as: what is the cheapest for the developer or for the municipality? It can only be a matter of serious economic interests or other serious social interests. So here too, we must be able to reassure the citizens. I ask the Minister whether noise should not be caused simply because it is cheaper not to do anything. So there must be really serious considerations. As a PvdA Group, we naturally support the view that the social need for inner-city housing is being seen. The transformation of, for example, office complexes into houses or the use of new technical possibilities, such as curtain facades, can of course be good reasons not to apply the limit values on the facades. But you do have to guarantee that this is also stated in the documents that the limit values are met on doors and windows. So a consideration may be that there is new technology or that there is a new challenge in urban housing, but also the economic structure in a given area can be a reason to deviate from standard values. I come now to the point I have just mentioned in an interrupting debate with Mr Janssen. Apparently, by means of a statement by the Council of State, which happened to have made it clear to me on the weekend too, there is already talk of cumulation of misery, to put it that way, which sometimes makes judges decide: that's the way it is, so that's how we have to do it. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is a different situation from that in the Environment Act. In substance, I would say: not in terms of criteria, but in terms of process and content. So what are we gonna do? I hear rather dramatic reports about that industrial site in Limburg; it was also mentioned by Mr Verkerk. There could be major problems there. Again, that could be separate from the Environment Act, because it concerns existing rules. What solution does the Minister see for these matters? Mr Rietkerk also asked: who decides? A city? Schiedam or Rotterdam? The harbor area? Or is it the province or maybe even the Empire? I'd like answers to those questions. I keep saying that these are already existing rules. I read in the Kokx/De Voogd report thank you for the transmission of this report, which has been extensively examined in order to find out what is creating free policy space. The report shows that the free policy area for local authorities is barely increasing compared to SWUNG and other rules that are already in place. I ask the Minister whether that is true, because this does not increase the scope for municipal considerations. That will be reassuring for some and not for others. The report clearly states that free policy space does not increase through the Environment Act. Only through the so-called dowry have administrative agreements been made to have a wider free policy area. However, that is separate from the Environment Act, because you could introduce that dowry even now. Here again I ask how much space is created for municipalities. In any case, as a group, we stick to the national trits standard values or limit values. I wonder if the Minister is prepared not to evaluate after five years, as she proposes, but to do the evaluation immediately on an annual basis. The similar discussion we had on the Introduction Act. We can do it from day one. There are even practice communities in progress. I call it the capital of Friesland. I want to hear how things are going there and whether this free policy area is disappointing. And if there is a free policy area, will it be used to make more use of it or to better protect the citizens? So I ask the Minister not to evaluate this after five years but annually, and not only through his own good work, but through an independent committee. In the written replies, the Minister refers to an independent committee. I would like to ask here, in line with the Nooren motion, which will be put to the vote next week, to carry out a more active evaluation and monitoring and to do so annually and independently. The Minister has already agreed to the spirit of the Nooren motion, so let us keep hope on this point too. Mr. Chairman. Then a great afterburner. Mr Verkerk has already mowed the grass at my feet. I'm an experienced expert, because a lot of buses drive by on my doorstep. So I know exactly the difference in noise between an electric bus, a green gas bus and a diesel bus. Diesel, of course, is very terrible. What policy does the Minister pursue to stop vehicles not only buses, also trucks and other cars, so that it becomes as quiet here as in New York in 1900? Of course, it's a serious matter. It is of direct importance for the existing environment, but also in new construction you will get extra sound space. There should, of course, be a sensible balance between exploiting and protecting. This can give a huge amount of space in the inner urban housing environment for new buildings, which we need right now. But that also includes the other side: not only filling up standards and space, but also maintaining it. Because it is not just me that suffers most, but a lot of citizens of mopeds, motorcycles and trucks who do not meet the noise standards at all, but they have been increased. They're horrible. It really wakes you up or it irritates you during the day. So I'd like to ask the Minister, the cabinet is probably about it, and not yourself, to maintain much tighter on whatever noise there may be in the area. On balance, that'll help a lot. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the final point, which also plays a part in this. Big profit is that noise is now part of the environmental plans. So that's in advance. It is no longer the case that plans can be made and that the initiators or the municipalities at the end say: oh yes, the sound we need to arrange. So now, I ask the Minister, the sound must also be taken from day one. If that happens, doesn't that include participation? For citizens, it is right when it comes to noise that it is important to know what is going to happen in their environment. So I would like to receive an additional confirmation from the Minister whether the communication on this and participation will take place early. I would also like to know whether this is the case in determining the noise maps. In 90 large municipalities there must be noise maps. There they are again: the ports, Limburg and the rest of the Netherlands. Are these cards ready in time and are they readable and understandable to ordinary citizens? Does it run through DSO? That too is a point of profit, that people can see it in time. Mr. Chairman. These source measures are, of course, the most important, but mostly we think that we can make progress on a number of points with this noise law, provided that the Minister's answers can help us to explain this well. My final point is that I forgot about aviation noise. I understand that this must also be done in the context of these integrated considerations. It's not in the Environment Act, but it has to be included in the environmental plans. Can the Minister confirm that? I read it somewhere. If that is not the case, then the fear is justified that Schiphol or aviation in general will again emerge. That has to be included in the noise load. The substantive question then arises as to whether the Minister also fears that this will lead to the closure of areas, either for aviation or for other economic activities. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The temptation is to go into Mr Crone's story about those quiet roads that horse and cars were driving about, because as far as they were hardened at the time, I do not think that was so poor with those tires back then. After all, it is not only about the sound of the engine, but also about the sound of the tyres. With which I would like to point out that the problem we are talking about is not new. As long as there is social activity, noise is produced and as long as it remains so, we have to deal with the balance between developing all kinds of social activities and protecting residents from the burdens that this entails. The legislative proposal now before us is largely decentralised. More generally, we are talking about protecting citizens from too much regulation versus protecting citizens from too little regulation. That is a complicated dilemma and that is what we are here for. It's in the heart of this Chamber's work. We have already indicated in the Environment Act that in the eyes of GroenLinks, the balance goes too far towards giving space, so that too little protection is offered to vulnerable natural values and citizens. Hundreds of pages of texts have been devoted to this in the preliminary programme, thanks to the Minister and her specialists and also thanks to the modest army of our own specialists. I am not going to do that again, not even in terms of technology. I do not want to go too far in the division of powers between the authorities, because no matter how important it is, it is ultimately about what this whole mass of government means to the citizens. That is the final balance that we have to make with each other, and in this final balance, in our view, when it comes to noise, it is the health of people in particular. I was therefore extremely happy with Mrs Moonen's speech on this subject, although I do not know whether she will ultimately reach the same conclusion, but at least she makes much of the same considerations as we do. The government seems to be aware of this. She's doing some right things, too. It incorporates sound production ceilings; the basic noise emission is a good thing. Unfortunately, the WAO standard is not enshrined in the law. I would like to ask the Minister why not, because that is what we do in terms of air quality. At the sound, the danger lies in the fine print and the exceptions. Mrs Moonen already mentioned the exception for peak noise. That is also our question. Another question is about the so-called sound-low façade. The first thing I say is: that's a good thing, but you shouldn't include that in the law. Then it becomes difficult and it is: perhaps we should include it in the law, but yes, then it should not be incorporated into the law too hard, otherwise we will get "decentralised, unless." It is now stated that, when the limit values are exceeded, account must be taken of the importance of protecting health through a low-noise façade. I've read it ten times and I think, "What does it say?" The importance of protecting health must be taken into account. That's at your service, I'd say, but is there any obligation in that? That's exactly the point. In another way, that point also comes up at that enforcement hole. There are a lot of trial arrangements and you have to weigh it again, but it is ultimately up to the municipality to do it or not. The great danger that then threatens is that you go back to decentralisation, without sufficiently clear central standards. I am in favour of freedom and decentralisation, but in the end it will have to be done within a centrally regulated framework of standards if you are not to impose unnecessary burdens on the interests and health of citizens. That is, in essence, our criticism and our question: why is this not a stronger choice? Two things I would like to highlight, which also have to do with each other. One is where there is coincidence of different sources of sound. Others have also talked about this, accumulation of sound. If this comes to an end, it will not be regulated or at least not sufficiently harshly. As long as I'm just reasoning from the citizen, there's obviously a little problem there. You could say: it's the strongest sound source, no, it's the sum of the sound sources. If we want to protect people, we have to protect them at that point. In particular, that is my second point, Mr President, that applies to aviation. I am very pleased that parties are paying attention to this, under pressure from a lot of enthusiastic input about it, but my question is whether we are going to have any consequences. It's nice to ask questions about that. We are also asking questions about this. What are you doing with that? It can't be that that doesn't count, can it? The ILT reiterates that the current standards are already not being applied. They often take a walk with them. How the hell are you gonna do that? People are very concerned about this, not only about Schiphol, but also in South Limburg, also in Eindhoven and Rotterdam, at all those regional airports. Then it is said cheerfully: we leave that out of consideration, because that is another law. It is a normal economic activity, but it is governed by a different law. In our view, that can never be the right answer. I therefore urge you to change that, and we do not need to look at it by evaluation. If it is not properly arranged, you have to arrange it at the front and not find after a year in an evaluation that it is not right. Mr. Chairman. I am 20 seconds past my time, but Mr Crone promised me that I would have a minute of his time, and in there there is 30 seconds left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate on this bill until later this afternoon.
