ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the VSO Policy Response Victim Monitor Sexual Violence against Children 2017-2018, Room 31015, nr. 202. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The National Rapporteur's Victim Monitor shows that many vulnerable children do not receive assistance even after the court has imposed a protection measure. In 15% of cases, it was not even established within six months, including through long waiting lists. Again, we see that the most vulnerable children, who are sometimes victims of serious abuse, are abandoned by the government. Mr. Chairman. On 2 July last, I tabled a motion calling for a short-term plan of action to improve this. That motion has even been voted by 150 votes in favour. But the plan of action is not yet in place, or at least I haven't seen it yet. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. We've been four months. Where is this approach? In the meantime, three weeks ago, there was also a distress call from the Health Inspectorate, which shows that the situation for children with child protection measures has even deteriorated over the past year. What is the Secretary of State going to do to solve these problems in the short term? Mr. Chairman. My second point concerns recognition of child abuse and sexual abuse. Because research done on behalf of the VWS Ministry shows that not all healthcare and education courses in HBO pay attention to recognizing child abuse. Again, I have called for more attention to be paid to this. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research commissioned by the VWS Ministry shows that not all higher vocational training courses in social studies, such as health care and education, focus on domestic violence and child abuse;]] [[having regard to the opinion of experts to the need for professionals from all professions that may in practice experience situations of domestic violence or child abuse to be able to work with the reporting code;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with various interested parties, such as the National Training Consultation and the various training courses, as well as professional associations and the platform of lecturers, learning networks and circles of knowledge, to call for structural attention to these themes in the curricula of these courses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Children must, of course, remain free from sexual violence. In this sense, it is sad, but also good that we have the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children, so that we can see and tackle the abuses. But there's got to be a tooth. The first point I wanted to make is that I think prevention should be a separate area of attention. Looks like it's hanging a little bit now. Of course, it is better to prevent, than to help repair the damage. Can the Secretary of State promise that this will be given a more specific role? Two. The National Rapporteur recommends a coordinated approach. There are some pilots running, but I actually want to have a precise final objective, and I want to know what period we are going to get there. This deserves explicit attention, which can be included in the next time the Chamber is informed about the state of play. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, there is insufficient knowledge of the effectiveness of child protection measures. It is, of course, nice that Erasmus University has carried out a study on this, but we cannot wait until 2022 or 2023 for the children who are in misery. That's taking way too long. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Rapporteur recommended that the effectiveness of the implementation of child protection measures in cases of sexual violence against children be investigated;]] [[noting that youth aid providers and certified institutions already have a legal role to systematically monitor, manage and improve the quality of the assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to make more active efforts to ensure that the institutions concerned keep track of the effectiveness of the protective measures taken as soon as possible, thereby establishing a self-learning system, and to inform the Chamber of Churches about the state of play,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u4	Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to have a discussion with his colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security with the National Rapporteur on what he needs in order to continue his work well and in time. Recently we were informed that the new Dader Monitor has been postponed sexual violence. I actually think that's a bad thing. The work of the National Rapporteur is very important to help us to remember children's terrible experiences of sexual violence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Wörsdörfer. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers, who speaks on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Child abuse and sexual violence against children. It's horrible. The National Rapporteur presented a shocking report on the state of play. Mrs Westerveld mentioned the following. 15% of the children under judicial supervision do not receive assistance within six months. So that's 15%, and it's really about the most vulnerable kids. We read in the State Secretary's response measures and plans, but how do we really get that percentage down? Of course, we want to bring it down to 0%, but it really has to go down. How does the Secretary of State actually ensure this? How does he keep his finger on the wrist there? Can he tell us when that percentage should have fallen in concrete terms as far as he is concerned? Mr. Chairman. Of the clear recommendations contained in the report, I would like to take one out: identify what is happening in tackling sexual violence against children and ensure coordination of that approach. Characteristic is that the cabinet reports that it is currently being made clear which departments are involved in what initiatives. That's taking too long. My questions would be as follows. When will this review be ready? That's gotta be quick. What follow-up steps follow from that overview? Let us mention it now so that we can move on to this important issue as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Jansen on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues who have just spoken have already mentioned the following. Sexual violence against children is one of the most repulsive things that takes place. Prevention is the only good way to get that as far as possible to zero. Of course, we must help and support the children who have been involved in this at the moment. But once again, much of our efforts should be focused on prevention. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he will continue to inform us of this. Once again, when you can bring it to zero through prevention, you are a step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. We are very concerned that we have everything in view. Given the figures, it can certainly be assumed in certain groups in society that sexual violence is more common there than in other groups. The second point is the impact of the corona crisis. Does that mean that we are facing an increase? This will not be demonstrated by this monitor, but are we going to look specifically with the next monitor at whether the corona crisis has had an additional impact on an increase in this? If that is the case, then we have taken another step backwards rather than forwards. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how he feels about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u10	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will reply in order of the speakers and start with Mrs Westerveld. No, let me first make a general remark, which is not an obligatory one: anyone who says from his heart that it should only end with sexual violence and that this is one of the most terrible forms of abuse, I shake my hand. That is not allowed, so I will shake the elbow to underline it, because it is terrible that it is still happening. Let's all put our backs on that, wherever we can. In that sense, I understand that the House sees every urgency in taking this forward and continuing to take it forward. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld said: I asked for a plan, but I don't know where it is yet. She asked, "Is that plan under way?" A letter was sent by me and colleague Dekker van JenV with ambitions for these vulnerable target groups. As far as I'm concerned, that's the plan. There are ambitions about how quickly people need to be helped in terms of percentages. Think of the ambition that a safety assessment has been drawn up for all children within five days based on contact with the child or the parents or the social network around the family. For 90% of children, a permanent youth protector, a youth referee, should be available within five days. For 90%, a safety plan must be drawn up within six weeks and so on. That's the plan, very broadly supported by the field. I think it's very ambitious. We are fully committed to this. This is also widely shared by the cabinet. The Minister for Legal Protection and the undersigned are its leaders in the Cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld has tabled a motion, the motion in part No. 205, which has to do with the training and states that relevant professionals in their curriculum should be well informed of everything related to domestic violence and child abuse. The content of this motion has been taken from my heart. Of course, all relevant professionals need to be properly trained. At the same time, I find the motion exciting that education and curriculum development are also on the board of Education. I would therefore prefer to agree with the colleague from Education what appreciation I attach to the motion. I want to actively inform the Chamber about that. I can say that I am very much in favour of this motion. At the same time, we must realise that this applies not only to the cabinet, but also to the Chamber of Deputies, that we are not dealing with the content of curricula. I think Mrs Westerveld knows that as an educational spokesperson like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u12	Yeah, exactly, I know that like no other. That is why the motion does not say it should be in all curricula, but says: discuss it. In practice, we see that the reporting code is not always used in a good way. Sometimes it's reported way too soon. This sometimes leads to terrible things for parents, because you will only have someone from Safe Home on your doorstep, when there is nothing wrong with your child, for example, having a serious disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u13	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u14	It happens. But we also see that some things are not reported at all, because many professionals have never learned how to recognise child abuse. That's what this motion is about. People who have a profession in which they may have to deal with child abuse should at least know how to recognise it and how to apply it properly, so that it does not go wrong on both fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u15	I see that kind of care in the operative part. I just wanted to say that I do not yet have the appreciation of Education. If Mrs Westerveld says she attaches herself to this because she has a careful consideration from the cabinet, I can promise that it will come in writing. Apart from that, if Mrs Westerveld says 'I am going to step up and put this motion to the vote right away', then I would not be against it and I will leave it to the Chamber. But I am committed to making that battle for Education, to seeing how it is on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u17	Then I'd be happy to hold the motion until the letter arrives. Can I also ask a question about the first point I made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u18	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (31015, No. 205). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u19	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u20	On the first point. I saw that letter, of course. It is true that ambitions have been agreed. At the same time, the problem I have with that letter and with many other documents that we are sent is that they are always plans for the future, when we know that there are now children in acute danger and are not being helped now. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State what is happening now to help these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u21	We will not wait until next year to take this up. This is taken immediately. Among other things, the approach is to map out right away which families we are talking about, and to organise a tailor-made approach for each family. This also explains why this 100% ambition is very high, but we try to provide assistance as quickly and adequately as possible on the basis of a scan of the overall problem, after which we zoom in on what we can do for each family situation. That starts immediately. That's what's happening now. We may not be much further, but I can give the Chamber a little more up-to-date information on this at the legislative consultation on 23 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u22	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u23	That's good to hear, because I didn't get happy when I read in the inspection report a few weeks ago that it's only deteriorated over the past year. I think we should make it very clear that this group of children is no longer able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u24	I couldn't agree more. At the same time, Mrs Westerveld will endorse the view that we should not raise expectations that we cannot live up to. We start very quickly to make a good scan per family and offer customization. We should not assume that at the turn of the year we will be helping all the families with the help we would like. The practice is a little more uncomfortable than we would like. The fact is that I am very driven and motivated to pick this up as quickly and widely as possible. At the same time, we have written in the letter ambitions that are realistic as far as we are concerned. The bar is already very high. Mr. Chairman. I turn to Mr Wörsdörfer's questions. It was right to start with the point of prevention, because that is where it starts, of course: how do we prevent this misery? What exactly is going on in there? Of course, things are happening. In any case, the starting point is that the approach to domestic violence and child abuse in families, at home, begins. We have committed certain actions to this. Under the flag of Violence belongs nowhere, for example, to make children's rights negotiable with the project Each child is informed. We are trying to prevent future victimisation and offenders by focusing on help and sustainably breaking the circle of violence. This is aimed at the approach of families. At the same time, I would almost call it education in one breath. This also affects a little bit of the motion asking that the professionals who are subject to reporting code should be well trained to take appropriate action. So education and parents are very important. There are a number of things going on when it comes to prevention: the Alliance Act4Respect, the Programme Safe Cities for the Safety of Girls in Public Space... A lot of loose projects are running. At the same time, we are asking ourselves interdepartmental questions: is this it or can we broaden it? I think Mr Wörsdörfer means that it can be even deeper and wider. That's what we're talking about. That requires interdepartmental coordination. I hope that in January we will be able to inform the Chamber about the results, where further steps can be taken in the field of prevention. Mr Wörsdörfer also asked what the final objective was. That affects Mrs Westerveld's first question. What exactly is the plan of action? I'm not going to fill it out, but I imagine the question behind his question is: when do you want to take those steps; when do you achieve what? We, the Minister for Legal Protection and the undersigned, set a high level of ambition in the letter with the agreement of and support in the field. I suggest that we get on with the team and get on with our work, that we put the inspection on top of that to show how this is now quantitative and qualitative, and that we look at whether it is appropriate what we are doing, given the stated ambitions, or whether we need to step up our efforts on the basis of inspection reports. Of course, the Chamber will be actively informed about this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wörsdörfer's motion on the effectiveness of child protection measures. In my view, this is primarily on the side of the Member for Legal Protection, as the title in the operative part suggests, but I am happy to comment on it on behalf of the cabinet. I understand that Mr Wörsdörfer says: there is a lot going on, but I would like to know what effectiveness is and I want it to be seen widely. A lot is happening. There are several traces, for example an in-depth study by Erasmus University. But that will not be delivered until 2022, 2023. I draw the conclusion from Mr Wörsdörfer's words that he proposes not to wait for it. He asks, "Can't we get an idea of effectiveness before?" The letter of 15 October, which I have already mentioned on several occasions, shows that the way in which we want to organise a family-by-family approach is, in our view, a learning process. Every case is taught, and that should give us an insight into the effectiveness. So I'd like to take the Chamber into account when we have more to report on that. In other words, there are several tracks. If I add the operative part of this motion to that, I can say that this motion may not be necessary, but I understand that Mr Wörsdörfer wants to have a complete overview of what is going on. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to give that the "judge chamber" qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u25	Okay. Mr Wörsdörfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u26	Well, that's nice, of course. What matters to me at the heart of the matter is that the institutions and all those involved should have their own insight into whether they are doing their job properly. This is part of the Youth Act, which was also one of the recommendations of the National Rapporteur. That's why I thought it was the right time to file that motion. The fact that we are all learning from this is absolutely fine, but I am also concerned about the fact that we are behind those institutions and all those parties in order to do this for themselves. They must see for themselves whether it is effective what they are doing and what they are imposing, whether their own measures are working and whether they can learn from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u27	That's what I'm trying to say. This is implicit in the approach I just outlined in the letter of 15 October. Mr Wörsdörfer makes it a little more explicit and asks to talk about it with the youth workers: you have to learn from it, but let us see it; it must be a learning culture for you and show us what you think about it, so to speak at case level. As far as I am concerned, that is also the intention of the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u28	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. Mr Wörsdörfer also asked about the work of the National Rapporteur. He asked me to have a discussion with JenV's colleague on how to do his job in the best possible way. I believe that we are very much facilitating the rapporteur, also in the financial sense. Of course, that's not the whole story, because he also wants to have comfort from us and have the conversation with us. It doesn't seem too much to ask me to have that conversation. Honestly, I don't know if there's an appointment, but I think it's good to have that conversation periodically anyway. So I'd be happy to admit that I'll have that conversation with Mr Dekker. I have a few more questions from Mr Raemakers. He asked how to reduce those percentages. I answered that question together with the questions about the plan of action. That was expressed in the letter of 15 October. Mr Raemakers makes a kind of sigh, and there he has a point, that it all takes a very long time to see results. We may be able to provide more insight into what is happening, but a lot of work is interdepartmental; I have said that before. I need to coordinate that with OCW and with Justice and Security. In the same letter I just promised to Mr Wörsdörfer in January, I would like to tell the Chamber at what time we can take what steps to take. This is not intended as a delay tactic, but that is the fastest possible route to identify the steps to be taken in interdepartmental terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u30	About the first one. The Secretary of State is now saying that these measures have also been clearly identified in the response. But I had also asked the Secretary of State to set a target: within a year we want it to be 15% 5%; and in two years we want it to be 0%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yeah, I get that question. But we have deliberately chosen not to, because we just want to get to work first. In response to previous questions, I have also said that the inspection will show how we are on track, because it will carry out quantitative and qualitative research. I imagine that we will face this question in conversation with other ministries. Then I would like to come back to that, but without promising that we will link years to that, because that makes it very exciting. The ambitions are skyhigh, but Mr Raemakers has a point when he says: 90% in 2060, so can I. So there has to be a certain perspective on achieving goals. I would like to get back to that in the letter I just mentioned before January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u32	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr Jansen also asked for prevention. I went into detail on the question of prevention in my reply to Mr Wörsdörfer's question. He also asked: do we now have everything in view? And what about corona-related violence? Did that increase during corona? The latter is complicated to confirm. We do know, for example, that the sexual violence centres first experienced a decrease because people found it more difficult to approach the aid, but that there was another increase later. There is a chat function attached to it to make it easy for people, so they don't have to go there and so they can do it via that chat function. The same goes for Safe Home. At Safe Home, the signal is now that it is quite constant, but that for example the chat function they have newly designed for the purpose of corona is widely used. We do know that digital sexual assault is increasing. This is also evident from the notifications that are received via the specially designed website Helpwanted.nl. So that is increasing and that is a concern. We need to place the magnifying glass separately on how to combat this. I have one comment to make on how we deal with the threats that are corona-related. You probably know that when schools closed from the Ministry of Education, vulnerable families were looked at where children were in a vulnerable, threatened position, so that they could organise education for those children outside the home, precisely in order to protect them from the risks of violence within the home. So we are also trying to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u34	I welcome part of your answer. The question is, of course, when, as a Chamber, we are going to get some more numerical information on this. The reason I'm asking is that the monitor is out of 2017/2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u36	We are now at the end of 2020 and soon it will be 2021. Could you also indicate when the next monitor will be coming and what period it will take? Because, of course, there are a number of developments that go very quickly in succession. When we look back, that's good, because you have to have an image of where you come from and where you want to go, but of course you shouldn't look back too long. The current situation is much more important, I say, because it will prevent you from facing the same numbers with another monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u37	I just promised a letter in response to Mrs Westerveld's motion. I propose that I include this specific question in the same letter, because I do not know when the next monitor will be provided. Of course, there are also reasons why there is some time between the misery and reporting and putting it on the monitor, but I will inform the Chamber in writing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u39	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u40	Then we have come to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-8.u41	I believe that two motions have been tabled, one of which has been detained. We'll vote on one motion next week. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
