ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. I give the floor to Mr Veldman, the first speaker, on behalf of the VVD. Speaking time is four minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Is this the time to intervene even more firmly? I understand the struggle of the cabinet in the midst of divided opinions and equally many opinions. For now, I understand the balance the cabinet makes. The result of the partial lockdown of October 14th must be visible by the end of this week. The trade-off for a complete lockdown is quite one. A complete lockdown has an unprecedented impact: no longer within sports, higher education closed again, further limitations of social life and all the physical, mental and economic consequences that this entails. We absolutely must do what is necessary, but if society does not have to be completely locked up, then we must not do so. I'll ask the cabinet how and when the balance is made. When's the next balancing moment? In principle, all these far-reaching measures are not necessary if we all stick to the existing measures. What doesn't help is a visit to corona parties. And that's why fines at these kinds of illegal parties, as we saw last weekend, seem to me to be more than desirable. Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my concerns here about the testing capacity and the source and contact research. They are still not optimal, while this should give us an insight into the virus and its spread. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister of Health. Is maximum test material being bought in, or is it being purchased on the basis of a maximum possible capacity of one of the links in the chain? Is the current purchasing capacity the maximum that companies like Roche can deliver to the Netherlands, or can more be purchased? Could the supply be greater than demand? The Chamber asked for this earlier, in my view, by Mr Klaver's motion. Seven XL fast-test streets, five of them in the Randstad. What's with the division? Is there enough human capacity? Mr. Chairman. It's fantastic that business is getting started under the leadership of former Commander Middendorp. What is the position of the test streets organised by industry? How is cooperation with the GGD designed? Are the results of these business tests included in the RIVM contamination rates? This is not happening in a number of commercial cases. Are the signs that people who do not show up at a GGD test street at the last minute are being recorded as positive? If so, why? What is the situation with regard to the human capacity of the GGDs for carrying out the source and contact research? Do the GGDs make maximum use of the available offer from, for example, temporary employment agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u4	I was wondering if Mr Veldman thinks that this cabinet should always be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u6	Can Mr Veldman explain exactly what is fair about the yet another blow that carers in this cabinet are getting in their face? We have all, including the VVD, collapsed for caregivers at the time of the first corona peak. The first blow to the face was then given to them by the VVD, but also by other coalition parties, when a proposal for a structural salary increase was voted on here. Yesterday, after all the debates we have had on this subject, the actions that have taken place and those signatures that have been collected, the proposal for a structural, substantial increase in the salary of healthcare professionals has finally been adopted. Today another blow in the face of our caregivers by the cabinet, by a note that came in just before the debate, which says: sorry, but it's not going to happen. What exactly does Mr Veldman think is fair about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u7	The cabinet has sent a letter to the Chamber on how the cabinet feels it should go with the commitment from the cabinet to the appreciation, salary and pleasure of employees in the care. I think it's a fair letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u8	Really, I don't really have words for it. That's how shameless I think it is. I just called it a slap in the face of caregivers. They experience it the same way. That was already the case in the summer and it is now again. I do not understand why Mr Veldman and this cabinet ignore the fact that we need all those caregivers so badly. I think those people are entitled to a fair reward, to a better salary. But even if you don't, everyone still sees the size of these deficits and the need to recruit additional colleagues into healthcare. Then we should do everything, including a better salary, to ensure that those people get more colleagues as soon as possible. Why do you keep blocking that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u9	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that we must make a great effort together to make working in care as attractive as possible. Hence today's announcement that I, together with Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, will submit an initiative law to increase the control of healthcare professionals and to legally anchor them. And yes, that includes a good salary. And, yes, in today's cabinet's letter, I also read that salaries have increased on market terms, that the government has made 5 billion extra available over the last five years, or four years, I believe, on top of what employers have available. For next year, I believe that more than 1 billion more will be available through this scheme. There are a number of collective agreements in the care sector that are increasing more than in a number of other sectors. That means that salaries are market-oriented. So yes, I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that there are several elements that make working in care attractive. That includes a decent salary. I think I read in the cabinet's letter that that decent salary is also there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u10	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u11	Really unbelievable. Mr Veldman must be honest, there is not going to be any increase in wages. That's also in the letter the cabinet just sent. Mr Veldman also knows that this has to do with the fact that the room for this increase next year is nil. So just be honest. Just say: despite all the actions that have taken place, despite the fine words we have all spoken about the caregivers and despite the fact that we voted in favour of the proposal yesterday, we are not doing so. But this cabinet doesn't say that. This cabinet comes with a nice story where caregivers are sent into the woods. Mr. Veldman, you're playing with fire. We need those extra colleagues as hard as we can. There are now departments and beds empty in the hospital, not because the equipment is not there or because the ventilation equipment is not there, but because there are no caregivers. Regular care is called off again. And you're blocking over and over again, even if a majority here in this Chamber and the First Chamber agree, still a fair reward for caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u12	I do find it special when Mrs Marijnissen speaks of a blow to the face when you see that in different care caos increases are agreed from 5% to 8% in several years, at a time when people are now losing their jobs because we have to take measures, for example because the catering industry is now closed again and people do not even have a job. That's a slap in the face!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr Wilders and then Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u14	I believe that the interpretation of the person submitting the motion is valid in terms of implementation. Well, I tabled the motion adopted yesterday. That is the Wilders motion, and it says that the cabinet must ensure that the salaries of health care workers are dramatically increased. What's in this morning's cabinet letter is all old mess. All that was already known. We already knew about the government contribution. We already knew about the collective agreements. We already knew about the SER. We already knew about the efforts that would be made. We all knew that. Despite the fact that we all knew that, you know, I tabled that motion in the second term of the previous debate, and I tabled that motion because I believe that, fortunately, a majority in the Chamber is not enough, and that there should be a structural increase in the salary of the health care staff. That's how it works here. It's not the cabinet watching if it's doing anything. It concerns the author of the motion and its interpretation. The Chamber votes. And how are things in the Netherlands? Democracy is in such a way that the cabinet has to carry out that motion as a rule. Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u15	It is true that in the case of a motion, the interpretation and explanation of the author are guiding. It is also true that a motion is an appeal to the government. The government has given an answer today. And if you're not satisfied with that, you need to talk to the government. I would like to reiterate the position of the VVD here, also in connection with the interruptions by Mrs Marijnissen, and in my view five or six times we have had this debate. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u16	But you could be on my side. You could say: Cabinet, this is unacceptable. We live in a democracy. People can assume that if a majority in this house supports a motion, it will be carried out. People can assume that. That happened yesterday. NOW'91, nurses, people in care were thrilled, and rightly so. This morning at the coffee machines in hospitals and institutions people said on their break, perhaps dressed to go to the ICUs, to each other: did you hear it, the Chamber passed a motion, we get our money anyway. And those people were allowed to assume that, because a majority of the Chamber decides what happens. We are the highest body in state law. And then you and the cabinet say to those people: look at it, we're gonna smack you in the face again, because you're not getting anything at all and we've made you happy with a dead sparrow; we don't care about democracy, we don't care about the majority of parliament, we don't do it. Why don't you get up and say, "I think that's unacceptable?" Why don't you come with me and all the other parties by saying: that needs to be corrected? Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Wilders accepted his motion because of a special circumstance. I think you can call it that: someone who wanted to vote against but voted in favour. He has seen his motion passed by which he makes an appeal to the cabinet. The cabinet will reply and send a letter on how they're going to carry out that motion. You can be satisfied with that or not. If you're not, you'll have to talk to the cabinet. When I read the letter, I think: yes, a lot is being done, 5 billion more in the last four years on top of what employers agree. A number of collective agreements are concluded with a higher percentage than I see in many other sectors of the market. Then nothing will happen; then something will happen. You do not have to agree or not to be satisfied with it; that is your right. If you're not satisfied with the letter, you need to talk to the cabinet. But I would like to tell you how I feel about it, how the VVD is in it, and why we also voted against that motion. That will not be any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u18	Then you leave the people, then the VVD abandons all those people in the care again. Because I assure you, if you stood up, along with that Chamber majority, and would say "we don't accept this, this is a Chamber majority," then it would change. But because you look cowardly the other way, that doesn't happen. And don't you dare say that the motion was adopted by chance. It doesn't matter. In the past, a motion was adopted on "the A73, a road in Limburg, to the west or to the east bank of the Meuse" because one member of the Chamber was stuck in the train. As a result, an entire highway was built on the other side of the Meuse, because the cabinet respects what the majority of the Chamber says. And you just throw that majority motion in the trash can. It doesn't matter how there's a majority. A majority is a majority, and those people in care, who have to abide by the laws, who have to abide by the rules, expect us to abide by our mores here too. The mores in this house are: a majority determines what happens in this country, whether you like it or not. I often don't like it when I don't get a majority either. But now I did get that majority and now those care workers do earn their extra salary. Now they've been looking forward to it, early this morning when they got up and saw that the motion had been passed. And the VVD makes them rot again. You're playing politically dirty, dirty games about the backs of health care workers, and you should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u19	I shall leave that observation to Mr Wilders. I note that the cabinet is responding to how it is going to implement the motion, and I am satisfied with that response for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u20	I share the view of my colleagues, the previous speakers, that the motion by means of that letter is in any case not being carried out. But I wanted to appeal to the VVD on something else, because it was just said'so satisfied with the employers who are taking so much action with those test streets'. But I still think there is insufficient support. We have scaled down, the NOW 3 really went from 90% to 80% of the salary cost. And now we are coming up with a proposal which I hope will be open to this cabinet. If a restaurant owner with a number of employees thinks: I am really up to 20%, but they could play a fantastic role in the daily business or in a hospital or a nursing home, wouldn't it be fantastic if that entrepreneur is paid 100%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u21	I believe that there will be a separate debate on the support package 3.1 announced by the cabinet yesterday. I realize, to say one thing, that this package does not, of course, cover 100% of everything that we might want to settle. I don't think that's possible either, but I think it's now a package that's moving back with what's needed. I propose, because I do not believe that there is a member of the cabinet for this, that we should discuss this issue in greater depth in the separate debate that was requested yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u22	Nothing has improved in this area, about that little bit more compensating for salary costs. I'm gonna ask the VVD. We can see that the water really runs over the shoes in the hospitals, in the nursing homes, in the daily consumption, that the absenteeism is rising. We're already at over 7.7%. Wouldn't it be fantastic if we could get more hands to do that, do supporting business? In doing so, we immediately compensate the employers, so that the salary costs are paid 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u23	I think this is a bit of an extension of another question, but back to the NOW: I understand the request, but the adjustment as it has been done has been done in the summer together with the social partners, to what is feasible. If you look at the overall package now, at the 3.1 measures proposed by the cabinet, you will see that there are also a number of extensions, including the TVL. Is that enough? Let us discuss this with each other in detail. But we have to see together that it is also a bit of a matter of moving along in the whole. If you look at the total of the third aid package, you will see that we are talking about EUR 11 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u24	In conclusion. Yesterday it was said that it will probably run until December. Then I see here a VVD that is not very creative and does not think very much about making sure that we can make a great connection to the concerns that exist both in the care sector and in the business community. I regret that the VVD is not open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u25	Proceed, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. I had arrived in the care of the elderly. On October 1st, the dashboard reported 164 nursing homes with an infection. Yesterday there were 533. This increase means infected residents and infected employees. Due to the high absenteeism, care for the elderly is becoming increasingly weak. More than a third have had to scale down care. Where this is still somewhat justified in medical care, for example by delaying knee surgery, this is not really possible in long-term care. These people need 24 hours of care or supervision. I want to know from the Minister what he is doing to prevent further scaling down long-term care and what he is doing for elderly people living at home. How does the Minister prevent a second drama in long-term care? Finally. To all those people who think they should express aggression against our care staff, I'd like to say, where is your mind? It's our care staff, that our loved ones and neighbors who are sick are getting back on top of it. Please, let us keep an eye on the common interest and put our hands on it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. It seemed to be such good news yesterday afternoon: the Wilders motion calling on the cabinet to increase the salaries of care workers in a structural and substantial manner was adopted. No one even ran away. But about an hour ago, we received a letter from the cabinet stating that on top of the existing plans, no extra money will be available, as requested by the motion adopted. The motion is simply not being carried out and that is unbelievable. A majority of the House is being defunct. We're all being set up, but it's mostly a blow to the face of all those care heroes. Where previously MPs ran away for their responsibility, Rutte now does so, while Rutte promised to carry out an adopted motion. In response to a journalist's question about my previous motion on this matter, the Prime Minister replied: "I am waiting for this Chamber meeting and then we must also stick to the Chamber statement." That too proved to be another great lie from a once again unreliable Prime Minister. I demand, on behalf of all those concerned, that the motion adopted be implemented and that, in addition to the existing policy contained in the Minister's note, there be a substantial structural increase in salaries. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, you'll have to quit, Mr. Rutte, with your entire cabinet. I shall then be tabling a motion of censure against you in this debate today. It's been enough with these outrageous dirty political games you're playing about the backs of health care workers. Whatever I'm angry about is the scaling down of ordinary hospital care. The corona print on the hospitals is untenable, so a morning newspaper headlined a few days ago. Two weeks ago, the cabinet promised to get better here. The opposite has happened, despite my Chamber-wide vote to get the care in order, so that people who need care also get care. Our healthcare system is now so weakened that it is no longer able to cope with this crisis. Of course, all corona patients should be given the best possible care, but also the 78-year-old Lelystad man who died after a heart attack after ambulance workers couldn't get to the third hospital, because in the first two hospitals where he passed, the emergency services were closed. Also in The Hague, Rotterdam and Delft ambulances had to drive around with patients because emergency stations were closed. Mr. Chairman. We're short on just about everything you could be short on: care staff, hospital capacity, ic-beds and testing. Care has been treated in a scandalous manner in ten years. Hospitals are closed and there is a disastrous shortage of care workers in hospitals and nursing homes. Hundreds of billions of our euros are being thrown over to Africa and Southern Europe, but hospitals and nursing homes closed and employees were being fired. I say to Prime Minister Rutte: if you give money to the whole world and let masses of people into our country, but leave sick people here in the Netherlands in the cold and don't care if they need it, then you don't deserve to be Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. What needs to be done now to save what can be saved? Get more care workers. Yesterday another motion was passed by me. He says what needs to be done to get more care staff. Make it financially attractive for care workers who work part-time to make more hours. Get managers to jump in on the work floor. Make sure that tens of thousands of people with medical training who are now working elsewhere can help as much as possible and help in health care. I hope that this motion will at least be carried out. I would like to take one vote on all the points raised in this motion, but adopted a reaction from the cabinet with concrete steps that will be taken. I will come back to that in every debate and ask for concrete results like a buck on the oat chest. Money, I say to the people of the VVD in box K, shouldn't be a problem. Give a little less money to abroad or to lucky seekers. The Netherlands must be able, crisis or not, to help its own people who are sick? We're not a third world country, are we? The time of carelessness, because that's what those VVDs have written on their foreheads, is finally over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. We're sitting down, and that's not the first time in this corona crisis in an exciting week. How will the number of infections develop? How does it go with the appeal to care and the pressure on hospitals? We also saw presentations about this this morning. In the letter from the cabinet, but also in the presentation of the RIVM, we talk about cautious points of light. A trend shows that there are effects of the policy, but there is also the profit warning that it is actually too early to conclude that it is sufficient. Mr Veldman mentioned this in his term. The R-value appears to be dropping. The assumption is that it will fall further below 1. Can the cabinet indicate what the assumption is based on that the R will fall below 1? The trend of flattening is cautious. For example, the sewer water does not yet show a positive picture. I would therefore like to make a few further comments on that expectation. Furthermore, the letter, but also this morning in the presentation, indicates that a harder lockdown does not have an effect on the height of the peak, but rather on the speed with which it will end. This seems to me to be a great dilemma. A hard lockdown and stricter measures have enormous negative effects on businesses, on the economy, on loneliness among the elderly, on social psychological consequences for young people, and so on. But a decline that is going to take months also has major negative effects, such as persistent pressure on care. Kuipers' presentation of this morning was not easy. But there are also economic and social consequences. My question to the cabinet is: how does the cabinet weigh these stricter measures, not only in relation to the peak summit, but also in relation to the length of the decline period? Then the test capacity. Yesterday's letter gives a nice overview of the scaling up of the test capacity. That was also requested in the Asscher/Jetten motion. It also discusses what is happening to fit in with rapid tests in the future. It is a good thing that a clear overview is given of this now, because these tests are not only those PCR tests, but also those rapid tests that are crucial for the dance with the virus in the coming months. Several people, including me, have already indicated that. I would therefore like not only to be included in the letter every week or every two weeks, but also to take into account the overviews of PCR capacity, in line with the motion tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten, but also the state of play in carrying out these rapid tests. Are we on schedule? Are there new steps that make it even better or faster, or are there setbacks? I think that every two weeks the finger should be kept on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u31	Before you proceed, there is Mr Wilders and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u32	Perhaps it will be, but I am not yet with Mr Heerma on health care salaries. He is the leader of one of the large groups that supports and supports this cabinet. I would like to ask him whether he also thinks that an adopted motion should be carried out, regardless of how that majority was achieved. You have heard the interpretation of the author of the motion, namely additional salary on top of the existing policy. I have said this not only to me, but also to colleagues from other parties. And then that motion will not be carried out. That's outrageous and a blow to the face of all those care workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u33	Today, the cabinet sent a letter indicating what is being done to improve both structural and occasional labour market positions and salaries in healthcare. Five billion have already been made available for this purpose in this period alone, and one billion in the next period. But we also had discussions here shortly after the summer about the 130 million added to improve that position on the bottlenecks. There's room in your own profession. In addition, a committee of the ESC will look at the structural bottlenecks. Then there is also a health bonus this year and next year, and there are collective bargaining increases from 3.5% to 5% to 8%. I believe that the cabinet is doing a great deal for structurally better working conditions and salaries in the care sector. We have also taken this position in various debates. I believe that in today's letter in response to the motion, the cabinet shows how much is happening. That is also the line we are following.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u34	I've asked two questions and I can't get any answers. Usually we ask questions and then get answers to our questions. My first question was: do you agree with me that a motion which receives a majority must be carried out, and that it does not matter how that majority is achieved? That was my first question. Maybe you can answer it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u35	The motion was supported in a special way yesterday, but the fact is that the motion was adopted. It is also a fact that the cabinet has sent a letter today, indicating what is already happening for better salaries and working conditions in the care sector. We can support that line. If Mr Wilders disagrees, he is always free to table motions and also to table amendments to the VWS budget next week, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u36	But the interpretation of the petitioner is valid. Mr Heerma is once again fleeing the answer. He was one of them. I can still see him running! I can still see him running away. I saw him running out in the hallway, and I just saw his buttocks, if you don't mind me saying so, down that hallway. I saw him running down those stairs, his hair all up in the hurry. I saw you! Like a hare, you left. Compliments, because you did that very quickly. But just too soon to do it the way it was supposed to. So you ran away. And now you run away again for the answer. For the question is: do you agree with me that the interpretation of the author of the motion applies? And if the petitioner, along with a majority in the Chamber and with all the colleagues from GroenLinks and the SP to the Labour Party, thinks that the policy that is there is insufficient and that something extra should be added to it, then surely your answer cannot be that the cabinet has done well? If we live in a democracy, it must be implemented! That's how this place works, isn't it? If majorities no longer apply, what means do we have to get what we want? You are insulting not only the parliament and you are insulting not only democracy, but above all those people in the care sector who hope every time that it will succeed and who are disappointed if it does not succeed and who are disappointed when you run to the parking garage. And then it's gonna work! And then it works out and then they're happy, and then you say, ah, you know, look at it, it's all good what the cabinet does and that majority doesn't matter, it's a little unhappy and you know what, we just kick that motion under the carpet and we go to the order of the day. The arrogance of the CDA!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr Wilders talks about his own words and his own conclusions. I believe that the cabinet is doing a great deal and that much has been done in recent years to improve these salaries in health care. Collective agreements in health care are also higher than in other sectors and certainly higher than collective agreements that had not yet been concluded when this cisis broke out. On top of that comes the health bonus, on top of that comes the second health bonus and on top of that comes the 130 million to tackle the real bottlenecks in care that relate to work autonomy. This has been investigated repeatedly. Then there is the ESC's research into structural bottlenecks, which took place in 2008 in education under Rinnooy Kan. So much is happening. That is a line that we have supported. I will say it again to Mr Wilders. Motions are sometimes debated for months or years, whether or not they have been properly carried out, and then new motions will or will not be tabled. That's part of this process. There will be a debate on the VWS budget next week. There are also parties in this House who have already tabled amendments to the budget. That is part of the political debate and will continue next week. The position of the CDA Group in this regard has always been clear. I agree with what is happening at the moment, and I do not share the harsh and big words that Mr Wilders is saying about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u38	That was a long answer. I would like to talk about another subject, the number of reproductions and, in particular, their communication. At the beginning, Mr Heerma indicated that he also had some doubts. How does Mr Heerma feel about the fact that Minister Hugo de Jonge said yesterday 'the reproduction number is 0.88,' and actually says: are we sure? How does Mr Heerma feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u39	This morning, the technical briefing brought that up. That's what the discussion was about: is the reproduction number now 1.16 or was it 1.16 on 9 October? In Mr Van Dissel's graph you can also see that the expectation for this moment is that it is below 1. I think that's what we've been talking about. My question here is what that expectation is based on. Because it would be very nice, of course, if we look back in two weeks to conclude that it is true, that it is below 1, which is now the expectation of that table. That would be really good news. At the same time, my point was that if you look at the sewer water now, that does not look good. So I very much hope that the expectation that has been expressed is true. The term expectation and the term assumption are, in my opinion, used in the letter. I very much hope it's true. I would like to explain a little more detail on how this expectation is justified. That also follows the discussion that we are going to have at the end of this week, beginning next week: do you have to take stricter measures or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u40	That's a long answer, and that's usually not a good answer. The Prime Minister and the Minister spoke to the people yesterday. They need to be clear. What surprises me is that something is being introduced there, an expectation, which simply cannot be fulfilled at all, unless we follow the most favourable scenario. Then it is 0.88. In the briefings we always hear it: we actually know it from 12 days ago. I simply do not understand, and I ask Mr Heerma: is it wise to assume that it is already under 1, that it is already 0.88? It does something to entrepreneurs, it does something to the people's expectations. So from communication I say: in something that we have all said "that's just not going well," Mr. De Jonge doesn't excel. We told him once: do that wisely and be cautious. Then yesterday we heard "it's 0.88" and today it's 1.16. Surely Mr Heerma agrees with me that it is unwise to say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr Azarkan begins by evaluating my answer, for which I am grateful. Then he starts evaluating the communication of the cabinet. Mr Azarkan deals with his questions; I deal with my answers. Nor am I constantly evaluating with Mr Azarkan whether I like his answers. The reality is that the R value is complicated, just in fact. Mr Agema asked questions about this at the technical briefing this morning, because the fact is that you don't know exactly what the R is now; you look back. Only if you don't look ahead with assumptions like the RIVM, you're going to take every measure based on an R three weeks ago. Then you're always going to take even more stringent measures, because you're going to assume that it's not falling. That can also be very unwise. So I don't find it illogical to communicate honestly that the expectation, the assumption, is in the trend that the number goes below 1. You have to imagine that that is not being communicated and that you are going to take tougher measures. Then it's in two weeks: yes, we actually knew two weeks ago that the trend was down. Then this house would be too small. But my question is what that assumption is based on, because there are also trends, such as sewage, that point to something else. So I have some informative questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u42	I would ask Mr Heerma if he thinks about what that means. What the hell does that do? I understand that we can have a discussion here with each other because we speak with specialists. That doesn't apply to a lot of people. We're dealing with 17 million people who somehow get information about what's going on. Now we all say, "Don't communicate things that aren't fixed." This isn't certain. This is an assumption. That's what Mr Heerma says. What's the point of communicating an assumption that only suits the most favorable scenario? Then you know there's a good chance you'll have to explain later that you didn't realize that? This, after all, leads to disappointment, such as a number of cases that have already been reported? Mr De Jonge said that we are going to get the testing done somewhere in July or August. That wasn't true. Then we'll create our own disappointment, won't we? Then we'll create less support for action, won't we, Mr. Heerma?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u43	But I just answered that. Suppose the R of 9 October of 1.16 states that the Cabinet and the RIVM would go off the table and not communicate about that trend, and that we would then have debates here on additional measures. Then Mr Azarkan says here in a few weeks' time:'shame that has not been communicated that the expectation was that the R was already falling'? Surely that would lead to the question: why was this information withheld? Surely it is right, in the complicated situation that the R cannot be established with certainty today, that you always look back but also have assumptions and expectations? It's really weird to keep that a secret, isn't it? Mr Azarkan wouldn't accept that either, would he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u44	I shall go to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and then to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u45	I hear the CDA about the health bonus. It is often used as an excuse and now by Mr Heerma. "Yes, we do so much already. They get a bonus this year and a bonus next year." Does Mr Heerma agree with me that anyone entitled to the bonus should actually get that bonus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u46	That bonus should go to the people who made extra hard efforts in the corona crisis. I know that this is now being looked at in many institutions. That's pretty complicated. I know that many institutions are doing well, but there are discussions about it in other institutions. The bonus is intended for those who have made an extra effort and who have been burdened. I'm assuming that's where he's going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u47	It is good that Mr Heerma hopes that this bonus will go there, but tomorrow the deadline expires to request the bonus. Indeed, there is still a great deal of chaos and uncertainty. Who's entitled to that bonus? Who's gonna apply for him for the care workers? The VVD even asked questions about it the day before yesterday. Zzp'ers, flex workers and temporary workers should also receive this bonus. Unfortunately, I have not heard the VVD today, but perhaps it will come. Does Mr Heerma agree with me that there should be an extension of the application period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'm absolutely not sure if that extension is necessary. I do not know the written questions of the VVD; I apologise for that. I'll take a look at them, and I'll assume the Cabinet will go into them as well. I will look at these questions and I would like to come back to them in the second term, but I have not yet seen them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u49	The CDA voted by roll call yesterday against my motion to extend the deadline for the application. I assume that if Mr Heerma acknowledges that there are very serious problems in several institutions in applying for that bonus, the CDA will vote in favour if the motion is put to the vote again next time, because the votes cease.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u50	Well, we voted against that yesterday in line with the answer I just gave. I think it's important that the health bonus goes to the people who deserve it. I trust that it will be done properly in the institutions. That's exactly what I just indicated. I am curious to hear the answer of the cabinet to the questions that are now being asked and which have apparently also been asked by the VVD. But Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen cannot conclude on the basis of my answer to her own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u52	My question follows on from that. That bonus has become a piece of shit in the workplace. That was not the intention, certainly not of the proposers, nor of the cabinet. But you'll just hear that back. Who gets him and who doesn't get him? This is typically something you cannot say: we assume that things are going well. We're gonna have to fix this. Now I have made a proposal with Mrs Marijnissen to pay extra money for this. This will be necessary in order to broaden the group that is entitled to it. I think that in this case, when you see what extreme pressure is on the care now, is the least we could do. What's the CDA's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u53	I am not convinced that by spending more money on this you will by definition achieve a better result. If you make the group too wide, many people will also get the money when they haven't had to make a harder effort. So I'm not convinced of this. I am curious to see what the cabinet is going to answer the question as to what is the state of play on this health bonus right now. It is a matter of making things more flexible in one institution than in the other. It is difficult for this to become a piece of shit, but it would also be very unfair to give a health bonus to people who are not actually entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u54	Still, the question is what's worse: that people who've worked themselves out wouldn't get that bonus, or that people who also work in care and in your opinion didn't deserve the bonus would get it? It's precisely because the problem is there. People know that the department next to me has worked hard too. They know that even if you haven't worked with covid patients yourself, you had to take the pressure on your own or with a lot less people. So it's not theoretical; this is already happening. If you broaden it, you're always at risk of finding someone who's been lazy and getting it. But what are we doing now? And that is a question of money, because that has been the answer of the department to our questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr Asscher initially asked a very complicated question about justice. This is about the principle: is unequal cases to grant equal rights as unfairly as equal cases to grant unequal rights? Those two sides are both there. I've met people myself. I'm not gonna call them names and names. I think it's unfair that I don't get that bonus. These are people who, for example, worked in one department, but have volunteered for another department. These are often examples where it is solved within the organisation. But I also had conversations with people who said "I think I deserve him too," but then, after asking two questions, they also doubted whether that was right. I'm assuming that the money for that care bonus is there for everyone who's made an extra effort. I would also like to hear what the government's answer to that is. I'm assuming that doesn't require any more money right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u56	This spring Minister De Jonge also said that there is no need for extra money, because it is an open-ended arrangement. If more people came forward than the 800 million available for it today, the money would remain available. The point is that everyone gets what they're entitled to, so I think that's not a cap, but that's the assessment we have. I'd like to get confirmation from the Minister. The question is... We all get those messages, especially from agency workers who say "I've received all those services. I worked at one organization. I'm not getting that bonus right now, because my employer just doesn't ask him for me." Why not? I understand that, too. This employer cannot check all the places in which this temp has worked. What do we do with this bonus? It's not just about the €1,000 or €500. I was in the Erasmus MC, and what matters most is the appreciation that comes out of it. That's starting to go away slowly. Meanwhile, that bonus is more a burden than that it solves something and makes people feel like I'm being seen; I'm getting something. And we need to fix that. Because what you shouldn't forget is this. If that does not work, the damage cannot be seen, with the mistrust that exists among people in care who still have to work very hard in the coming period. We need to fix that. I would say that the price we have to pay financially is never too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u57	In the first part of Mr Klaver's question, he remembers very specifically the term 'open-ended scheme'. I have always had the impression that it has been said: for everyone who deserves it is money. I await the Minister's answer to that question with Mr Klaver, but that has always been my picture. I do not agree with the remark that the feeling of appreciation for that health bonus is now completely gone. A lot of people do feel that appreciation, because in a lot of cases things are going well. It's also a lot of money. So I don't share that it isn't felt as appreciation anymore across the board. Well, there are problems. This happens in institutions, it happens in individual cases. That has been a discussion in the last few weeks. Let us wait for the government's answer to hear exactly what the situation is and whether these problems have been resolved satisfactorily, but I am not going to say that the feeling is completely gone. I also get too many signals from people who have been awarded the bonus who do. It is usually the people who do not get it and find it unfair or where a discussion has taken place. There are also people who say: those others get the bonus too, but I did work hard and they didn't. Those two sides are on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u58	In the end, this whole debate on healthcare salaries is about valuation, whether it's the bonus or the structural increase. This is about appreciation. I've also seen people who are very satisfied. How's that happen all the time? It is employers who have handled this scheme generously and who have applied for the bonus for everyone, and who have often pre-financed it. People already have him in the account or almost in the account. But that doesn't apply to every employer. In doing so, politics has established a system of division. That's just not good. My next question is about structural salaries. Every time the cabinet says there's really a lot of money coming in, when you look at the salary increases. But when I look at next year's projections, there's gonna be a billion more for wages in health care. It takes about half a billion to pay the pension contributions. The other half of a billion left is not enough to keep up with the rise in inflation. It's the corona crisis. Because of the economic crisis that has arisen, you will soon see that care workers are not making any progress. My question to Mr Heerma is whether he thinks that is fair and whether we should at least resolve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u59	I should like to comment on both aspects of Mr Klaver's question. The first element wasn't really a question. The appreciation Mr Klaver is talking about is the central thing in the care. In all these studies, pay often only comes to places 7 or 8. First come, for example, autonomy in work, administrative burden, career prospects and opportunities for growth. All these things are coming up. This will have to be looked at because of the drop-out from care and the lack of willingness to work in care. By the way, we see very nice examples, like yesterday at Op1, where Marjon Courage was sitting, of people who are now making the switch to care from the culture, from the hospitality industry. In that sense, there is also something changing. If you really want to do that, you're gonna have to deal with those real issues of appreciation. I myself have good hopes in this respect about the money that has already been allocated and about the research of the ESC. In addition, a lot has happened when it comes to care and the increase in healthcare salaries. In recent years, the system of health care salaries and the 5 billion in this cabinet period have increased proportionately more than in other public sectors. The collective agreements concluded also add up to 5%, 8%. That's not nothing. That's where the billion comes in. I'll add the bonus. And here comes the extra money for the elements I was talking about in the first half of my answer. That corona has an effect, also on inflation and that sort of thing, applies across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u60	Something very cynical is happening here. These people in the hospitals I've been able to see for myself again in such intensive care, run double shifts and sometimes work there at risk for their own lives. My sister's a doctor and she's been in the hospital recently with corona. These are people who aren't trying to avoid the virus, they're going there. The whole corona crisis, which they need to solve, has a huge impact on the economy. This will ensure that next year there will be no extra money for their salaries. And yes, agreements have been made in the collective agreements, so it may well be that these salaries will remain in order in the coming years, but it will be at the expense of new people who can be adopted, of investments being made. In fact, my question to Mr Heerma is whether we should at least ensure that they do not deteriorate. That is where we have now come in, that they do not suffer from this crisis, either in wage developments or in the number of colleagues that can be adopted. That's how far we've come. There will be less money available for these people than inflation, than the extent to which everything in the Netherlands will become more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u61	Mr Klaver says at the end: salaries may rise, but there may not be enough to attract additional staff. This is often a problem with salary increases in many places: what is left of higher salaries for the staff? This plays in every profession. However, I wonder whether we should not have part of this debate in the economic debate next week, because Mr Koolmees, on behalf of the cabinet, has laid down a plan on the issue of corona crisis jobs to see if more can happen there. I do not think so for this debate. Given yesterday's perhaps somewhat messy arrangement, I think this is more something we should discuss next week in the economic debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u62	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u63	Finally. That's not a question, but it's a sigh. I do not often agree with Mr Wilders, but he is right. After a very long battle, a motion has finally been passed by a majority here in the Chamber. No matter how that happened or how messy it was, there is a majority. The vote on this motion has ceased many, many times. It is often said that we are in this crisis together. The opposition is trying to move forward and move forward together with the coalition. The differences are often not even really visible. The opposition has asked these questions so many times across the board. The movement shown by the cabinet on this point is not evidence of an outstretched hand or of cooperation. I find that problematic, because the time ahead is still very difficult. In this way, we harden the relations in the Chamber and in society. That shouldn't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u64	I do not think what Mr Klaver is saying here is right. I do not want to blame him for the way in which he is debating this house, because I think he often tries to find the middle ground with each other when it comes to that test society. He should just not paint the picture as if not much has happened in those previous debates. Mr Wilders has just sketched my athletic corridor towards a parking garage, not entirely in line with the truth, but it was a beautiful picture. Thank you again for that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u65	That sticks, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u66	But in subsequent debates, the coalition group chairmen not only indicated that they should not have done so. Steps have also been taken on the issue of these bottlenecks. That is what the budget has earmarked for 130 million. A second health bonus has been announced. That SER research has been done. To sketch the picture that nothing happens to what is happening here in this house, I just don't think it's right, because all kinds of steps have been taken. I do not deny Mr Klaver and the others who have tabled an amendment to this effect, in any way, that right. For that is what this political debate is for: they say that they do not think it is enough and they are therefore tabling another amendment. But what Mr Klaver is doing here at the end, which is to pretend that there has never been an outstretched hand, I do not think it is right, given what has happened in this discussion over the last few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u67	I suggest you proceed, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u68	I see I don't have much time for that. So I'm gonna talk fast. I would like to say two more things. We've talked a lot about testing now and we're talking about the peak we're in right now, but in another phase something else is going to be very important, namely if there's a vaccine. If there is a vaccine, a good vaccination strategy is vital, because there are millions of Dutch people who all want that vaccine as soon as possible. Several letters, also briefly in my opinion in last night's letter, refer to an opinion from the Health Council on prioritisation. That advice was due in early November. However, in addition to this priority, a good implementation strategy and clear communication are crucial. I have read back the last letters and I find very little about them. I would like to hear from the cabinet here in this debate and otherwise in another letter that vaccination strategy should not only set out the priorities, but also all the other things, just as the current letter has done with the rapid testing. Now I'm really finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned that there are very nice local initiatives, such as the Coronabuddies, which were discussed yesterday at Op1. Those are people who switch to care and work there. Mr Koolmees' letter said something about that yesterday. As far as I am concerned, next week, in the debate on the economy, we are going to have these corona crisis jobs together, because this is something we really need to continue with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u69	I heard Mr Heerma speak about the vaccination strategy and what he wants from the cabinet on that point. I wonder whether the CDA would like the Cabinet to take very careful account of the fact that, if you allow reservoirs in animals to develop, mutations can occur, which means that the vaccine can no longer do its job. We see this in Denmark, for example, where mutations of the coronavirus have ended up in nursing homes. Scientists warn us: be very careful with that, otherwise you will have a vaccine but also a huge animal holding in which that virus goes around and mutates, which may not work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u70	It is not the first time in these debates that Mr Ouwehand comes to the end with a question about something I have no knowledge of. You did it again, Mrs. Ouwehand. I do not know this example from Denmark. I would very much like to save you speaking time in your first term by asking this question to the cabinet: what is the situation in Denmark? I just really don't know if the example you're quoting has any effect on a vaccination strategy. I'd like to hear it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thanks for the open attitude. I've already asked Parliament questions about it. I can also imagine that Mr Heerma...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u72	There's been a lot of parliamentary questions in this house, and I don't read them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u73	... she doesn't all read, but it wasn't the first time that this warning came here on the table. A majority of the Chamber says: let us give the Minister the opportunity to intervene if that virus occurs in a species other than the mink, for example. That's what the CDA was always against. I find that a little disappointing when you ask for a good vaccine strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u74	It happens that the CDA does not vote in favour of motions by the Party for the Animals. I understand Mrs Ouwehand is experiencing that as disappointing. I must confess, however, that this is sometimes the case. A good vaccination strategy is not just about prioritisation. That's what my question was all about. In testing and in many cases, communication and the state of play in implementing organisations have also shown themselves to be a bottleneck in recent months. My questions were aimed at getting it over there, looking ahead to the vaccination and next to the prioritization. What Mrs Ouwehand has succeeded in doing is to put her own point to the cabinet in asking form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u75	Yes. Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my group chairman, who is in quarantine at home after having tested positive for corona. Mr. Chairman. The situation remains worrying. At the same time, yesterday, the cabinet said that there were also some cautious points of light and that the assumption was that the R would be under one. That's surrounded by a lot of uncertainty. It seems to be a constant in the corona debate that is actually the week of truth every week. That seems to be the case again this week. The D66 Group supports the fact that this week we are looking very closely at what is happening and that we are looking at whether tightening up is necessary. We all hope not. Mr. Chairman. What struck me yesterday was that it seemed that almost between the nose and the lips was announced by an extension of the current measures. That period was first two to four weeks, but would now run until December. At the same time, a Secretary of State of the same cabinet, Mrs Keijzer, says: no, that is not at all the issue. If it is true that the measures are being extended, I think that this has been put in a somewhat uncomfortable way for all those people who work in the hospitality industry, for all those entrepreneurs and for many people who cannot go to the hospitality industry, for example. They then suddenly hear this between their noses and their lips about the measures that affect them so deeply. That's just said between the nose and the lips. But then again, at night, that doesn't seem right. And at night we get a letter and that letter shows that the measures have been extended. So I have two questions for the cabinet. Is it true that the measures have been extended? And shouldn't this have been communicated in another way? Isn't that a lesson we've been taking lately? There's been some real confusion. Mr. Chairman. At this time, when we are partly waiting to see how the figures are developing on the basis of a whole set of measures, it is also questionable whether we use time properly in the longer term. Mr Heerma rightly asked a question about the vaccination strategy. Very important. There is now an implementation of the motion by my group chairman and Mr Asscher on testing and rapid testing. It's a good thing it's there. I'm also pleased with the overview. I have two more questions about that. The first is, are you sure we're gonna make this happen? My group has been asking for the flu shot for months. That was under control, but it turns out that a lot more people want the flu shot. In all honesty, I must say that I was not so surprised. The call to healthy 60s is even not to get that flu shot. I found that disappointing. That makes me a little concerned: are all the other action plans really in order and also robust, so that we do not run into all kinds of problems in the case of protective equipment, testing capacity, rapid testing or vaccination strategy? So I would like to hear more about the robustness in the government's response today. Specifically, I would like to focus on education. We all, I think, want education to remain open, for the sake of our children. And tests can play a role in that. So can the cabinet also see in the test strategy how education can get a place in it? What else can you do there to see if you can make sure that there are fewer infections, that we track them down earlier, that teachers feel safe and that they are safe? And I believe that this is an experience in other countries. I am looking at Mr Asscher, who I think is going to say something about that too. For example, there are whole schools in a quick test, so you can also see if there are infections early. I'd like a response to that. Tomorrow, the Prime Minister will have a video conference with European Heads of Government on the fight against the pandemic. I hope that he will also take a very pro-European course there when it comes to, for example, the quarantine advice, the buying-in of tests and vaccines together, but also working together on, for example, travel advice, where this is crucial. I hope that the Netherlands will be ahead of us. And should we not, for example, simply take over the German system? If you want to enter the Netherlands from a country with a negative travel advice, you have to show a negative test. My group has asked for this more often. Then the quarantine package. Quarantine is difficult and heavy, and requires a lot of people, but it is very important. Is it not right for the cabinet to put forward a concrete proposal to help people financially? For example, there are measures around volunteers and support, but also financially, so that you can have some groceries and food delivered. Then my final question, Mr President, because I see the clock. We're going to talk about the crisis in detail. There is now also the crisis package, additional support has been announced. But if we had to go to a tighter lockdown... I hear a lot of middlemen say: it can't be that supermarkets are going to stay open, but the butcher and the grocer are going to close? Please confirm that the small shopkeeper can stay open for food.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. I hope that Mr Jetten...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u79	No, Mr Van Weyenberg...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u80	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u81	Oh, sorry. I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mrs. Van Brenn was going to say something very nice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u83	The chairman's not used to me at all, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u84	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u85	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take advantage of the fact that Mr Van Weyenberg is standing there, because we sometimes do something fun. And that's rare, I admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u87	At five feet, I'd like to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u88	Also at 1.5 meters. No, it's about open ringing. Next week we will have a debate on employment and support for care. But wouldn't this also be the moment to see if we could give that open ring more space for all those organizations that are jumping over people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u89	Interesting. Mrs Van Brenk is also doing this because this is also a way of combating discrimination in the labour market. I would also very much like to talk in that same debate about the very interesting idea, as far as I am concerned, of some kind of crisis jobs, in which Mrs Van Brenk's idea can be involved, for the people who lose their jobs or companies where, unfortunately, the staff now have no work because they are still working, as in culture andzzp'ers. They can therefore take on public tasks and jobs that we can now use very well. That can be as aid in education, in many areas of care. So let's get this involved. But I'd like to involve all those people and those companies that are now standing still. And then we get out of that very well together, I say to Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u90	If we could then pass this on to the cabinet so that we have a concrete response to it next week, that would be fantastic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u91	Well, the Cabinet is listening. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr President, thank you. Yes, D66 has voted full surrender for my motion for a bonus for the care workers, which is €1,000 net. Yesterday, however, D66 voted against my motion to extend that deadline. I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg: why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u93	I understand the question. Because our information so far is that that wasn't the bottleneck. There are complex conversations going on. I understand that, too. They must lead to a just outcome. So far, I have no indication that we should extend it. But I'll ask the cabinet. If that would help, of course I'd like to hear it. So if there's more information on that, I think we should look at Minister Van Ark for that, then I'd be happy to hear it. I'd like to be convinced of the need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u94	The Chamber has received all kinds of letters, from industry organisations, trade unions and health care workers, who say: "I am a temp. I'm a flex worker. I'm azzp'er. I work with a pgb, with a personal budget, and I don't get that bonus." There are dozens of complaints about healthcare providers who simply do not apply for that bonus. And tomorrow's deadline expires. So I would very much like to agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that if my motion to extend the deadline, the deadline, will also be put to the vote again, D66 will vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u95	Two points. The first was a more substantive point. We must, of course, ensure that those who have made extra efforts are also eligible. That was very important for my group, and also for all colleagues, I know. That's very good. That's just what needs to be done. Whoever's entitled to it should get it. I think Mr Heerma said the same thing before that. The second question is: if you give it more time, can that also lead to delays? Neither one of us is after that. If a limited extra time helps, I'd love to hear it. But I also don't want it to be some kind of excuse for delay or delay. That's not what you're after.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u96	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u97	That seems to me very easy to solve. If you make a tax return, for example if you do so before 31 March, you will also have your money before you apply for an extension and get it in September. I would very much like to hear from the Minister later how we are going to solve this, so that anyone who is entitled to that bonus actually gets that bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u98	That's what you're gonna do...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u99	So do I, but let's not take the pressure off the kettle either. Mrs. Van Kooten doesn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u100	Thank you. Mr Wilders also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u101	Sorry, it's the same question, because I'm fighting for the motion on the care staff. I am going to ask everyone from the coalition, and also the colleague from D66, whether he also believes that the motion should be carried out, as was the intention of the petitioner. This has been supported by a majority of the Chamber, however it may have been. Is he also of the opinion that it is quite wrong that the cabinet should issue a note stating that it is a standing policy, that it is already carrying out the motion and that we already knew that when we tabled the motion and certainly when we voted on it yesterday? I didn't mean to. The caregivers are counting on more pay. Could we then count on D66, a party which has the word 'democrats' in its name, so that this motion is simply carried out, in accordance with the wishes of the proposers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u102	It was a special vote yesterday, also because it was corrected afterwards by a member of the Christian Union who said that they had made a mistake in voting. You are right: the motion was adopted because of that mistake. The proportions in this Chamber haven't changed. I understand very well that you say that there is now a cabinet line that is not what the PVV wants. The D66 Group thinks what is written here is sensible, also because there is once again a very clear picture of how much we are already doing and how much we are going to get, with the structural increase of 3% in the healthcare sector next year. But I am very much aware that Mr Wilders wants a different answer. I have sometimes had to retable a motion if the execution was not as I wanted it to be, so I recognize that feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u103	With all due respect, it's not about what's sensible, is it? The point is that a majority of the House, as well as the petitioner, had a different intention with that motion. Surely you can't answer that you think the cabinet's answer is sensible? Perhaps the cabinet will say: climb into a tree, because we think that is wise. Isn't it a matter of respecting what a majority of the House wants? That's democracy, isn't it? Again, so often there is no majority in parliament for a motion from me, but if there is... it is not about the PVV, but about those care workers. They are now counting on that majority to be respected. It's about that happening. Then you can't say that you think it's wise what the cabinet does? You may find it unwise what the opposition, what a majority found in the Chamber yesterday, but it must be carried out. That's democracy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u104	I believe that Mr Wilders is the greatest professional politician of all of us. He's been around for a long time. He also saw yesterday, of course, that political relations have not changed. Yes, the motion has been passed. I'm not denying that. But it did happen because of a mistake. That is, of course, a relevant fact. The cabinet told us today how it's going to do that. Structurally, billions more have already gone to salaries. You're right. Next year there will be a 3% increase in wages. There will be 130 million for specific bottlenecks. The Economic and Social Council is now investigating. I think that is a sensible way of implementing the motion. If Mr. Wilders doesn't think so... that's what I'm making up and that doesn't surprise me. He doesn't have to climb a tree for that. I'll bet you do. But then he has all the parliamentary instruments to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u105	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u106	That's really lame, isn't it? I ask a serious question and I get the answer: the professional politician Wilders. It is really below your level to respond to a substantive interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u107	I think I've mentioned all kinds of numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u108	No, you start by saying: the professional politician Wilders. I could be like this, but I'm asking you a serious question. A long time ago, in 1995, I was not a Member of Parliament at the time, a motion was passed. That was under Purple I, the cabinet that was worn by your party at that time. It was then about whether the A73 should be on the west bank or on the left bank of the Meuse. A member of the PvdA Group at the time, Mr Lilipaly, was abroad when he had not told us and then the motion was passed on the left. It was then, in particular, Mr Wolffensperger of D66, chairman of the D66 group, who did not wish to do so was D66 for the western bank, who said: it is a majority of the Chamber and that majority must be followed. Whatever you think of D66, Mr. Wolffensperger was pure in teaching. He said it's not my intention and my interpretation, I don't want it on that side, but we're gonna do it. Where did Mr Wolffensperger's D66 say that? You just don't care about the majority. You come up with jokes about a professional politician. I ask you a normal, serious question, and then you have to answer it seriously. Because it is not about me and whether I am a professional politician or not, it is about those caregivers who are entitled to assume that this salary increase is due to the democratic decision of a majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u109	In my view, Mr Wilders received a long answer from me on what is happening and what I think is sensible. The Christian Union colleague said in the debate that this is really different from the example Mr Wilders used: listen, I voted in favour by mistake but I wanted to vote against. The proportions in this Chamber haven't changed. The cabinet now indicates how the motion is handled. Mr Wilders is clearly not satisfied with that. So I'd like to see the follow-up motions come by again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u110	I think that is quite an arrogant answer from D66: I like to see the follow-up moves come along. What the hell is that? We have talked so many times about this in the Chamber and have voted on it so many times, in front of you. This motion has been passed. So I find it rather ugly to say: we are quite satisfied with the way the cabinet carries it out and I see the follow-up moves coming along. It has just been said that you should submit an amendment to the healthcare budget. We are. That's all there. We'll continue. So don't worry about that. What I would like to ask you today is this. What do you actually think of the idea that health care providers should now get from this Dutch parliament today? We're in the middle of the second corona surge. They pulled us through the first corona spike. Now we're all looking at them again, each and every one of them. What the hell do carers have today in this cabinet and in D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u111	By the way, I believe that one of my colleagues said that there were amendments. That is respectable, because you also reflect your ideas in amendments. So compliments. So you haven't heard from me about that. What the cabinet is sending us today in response is how it works on better pay in health care. I also mention the billions that will be released for this, and the fact that there will be additional money, even after the previous discussions that we have had on this issue, for example, for specific bottlenecks. Yeah, I don't think yesterday's mood was such a mess either. No misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u112	I'm sorry, but I don't think that a mood like that happened yesterday was a good idea either. What the hell is that? I do not think you know how many messages I received yesterday, but probably also other Members of Parliament, from healthcare professionals who were really happy that this was now settled. And now they get another blow in the face, again after last summer. That's just what it is. That's not just a pretty picture. That is scandalous towards those people, but it is also irresponsible towards Dutch society when we see that we need all those caregivers so badly, not only those who are there now, but also the tens of thousands of extra people we need in healthcare now and in the coming period. Then you cannot say here today: yes, I actually find that mood a bit messy and that was not such a nice picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u113	In my view, I have also indicated that it is also very good that the cabinet is releasing billions for structural wages in the care sector, that next year wages will increase by 3% in collective agreements and that additional money will be made available for specific bottlenecks, including calls from Mrs Marijnissen. A broader study is being carried out on the remuneration. And that's all very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr Van Weyenberg must be honest. You cannot say here today: 'it will be all right, those wages are going to go up', because that is not the case, and Mr Van Weyenberg knows that too. You happen to be good at pensions, I know. You know that these pension contributions are going to increase, and that is at the expense of the scope for wage increases. It's just nothing to worry about in the future. You know what I'm talking about. So just be honest and say, "There's been a mistake made by a fellow coalition member and we're just going on the line we had, which is: we're doing what we did and not doing anything extra for the care." Then you're being honest. But you're not saying that, and neither is the Cabinet. They're sending a letter today saying, "Yes, we're going to do the motion, you know, we're going to do this-this-this," and then you're going to say exactly what you've already done, while the motion is asking for something extra. Then you're just not being honest, are you? I'm just doing my job here, but what do you think of those caregivers? Surely they can expect you to be honest, that the cabinet is honest with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u116	But I don't quite understand this in all honesty, because this was what I just did. I said that the motion was adopted by a mistake made by a colleague of the Christian Union. That's the answer you didn't like at the time. That I said I didn't like that, you were annoying at the time, but that was very fair. I was very sorry to hear that. If the vote is wrong, we are not okay with it. And that the cabinet now writes down what it does for higher salaries, is a line that my group has had for a long time. We've always been very open about that. If you have any other wishes for the cabinet, I know you have them; you are going to make proposals for them. You always do that with great passion and we will also discuss it with the VWS budget and, of course, all over again. But I think I was just being honest about what happened in that vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u117	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u118	Mr. Chairman. We're in the middle of the second wave. It's not going well and you can tell the difference with that first wave. There, in that first wave, we were still incredibly resilient, it seemed, with each other. We thought, "We're gonna beat that virus, everybody's got their backs on it." You can see that's less now. That is not a reproach, I understand, because in that first wave we thought: if we overcome this, if we make sure that hospital capacity remains in order now, if we get that R down, then it's over. Then we've overcome it and then we can move on. But it came back this second time. And the perspective, or actually the lack of it now, is problematic. Which brings me to yesterday's press release. What is needed at the moment is not just a Prime Minister who says for the umpteenth time 'hold on to the rules'. What it takes is that people have perspective that they understand they have to follow the rules. Where do we work together? I've talked to so many people who say: do me a very solid lockdown, close it all up, if we can get back to normal after three weeks. And what does that mean, act normal? In what way are you going to fill that out? Mr. Chairman. To this question is not yet the beginning of an answer. That worries me. That means that we're gonna be messing around for a very long time, with some firm measures that have a huge impact, and we see hospitals walking on their toes, and we see that society doesn't quite understand what we're doing to each other. There is no common goal. It is up to the cabinet to work on this. That's not just a call "hold on to the rules," it's about what the perspective is. That perspective is, as far as I'm concerned, that test society. We weren't gonna get the virus together. We can learn to live with it. Of this test society I see a better start in the letter than I have seen so far, but it is not enough yet. What is the prognosis for the number of tests up to the summer and actually far afterwards? What priorities do we choose? Who are we testing? There are two tracks, but I have no idea what the difference between those tracks is. What I want to hear is: we have a limited capacity to test, we will always keep that. Then who are we gonna test first? Is it our priority to keep schools open and does that mean that we put all this into schools? Does it mean we're putting it on for the care? And if it says that we're working with the business that I'm very much in favour of, are we going to treat every company the same way? Are we going to let the market do its job to see which company comes first, which gets the tests first? Or are we looking at which companies are the most important for our economy and for our society? What I see now in the test policy is still not the direction we have always asked for. Even if we have 500,000 tests a day, there will be scarcity. We must make a political choice, a weighting of what is in the social interest. What are we going to bet on and not on? I want clear answers from this cabinet. You can't do this like this. My patience is also running out, frankly, when it comes to testing policy. This has to be better and faster. I'll be back at the press conference. Between the nose and the lips, the colleague of D66 said it was said: it is extended until Christmas. I think that's right. I think we should bear in mind that we can't spend the holidays with our loved ones. At least, maybe with the family. At least I hope so. But you can't visit Grandma and Grandpa. But don't say that between your nose and your lips. That's a huge announcement. If in the evening a secretary of state sits on a television programme and says "I called for a while and it turns out that it isn't a run at all," then you don't have your communication in order. One of the few instruments at its disposal is crystal clear communication. He was out of order yesterday, and that was wrong. Finally, three points staccato, because I see that I am out of time. One. Take the advice that there will be a negative travel advice for the Christmas holidays. Second. Shut down all the mink farms. Those are bastions for that virus, as the Animal Party always argues here. Close them right away. Third. Make sure that people are better supported in their income. That's what we're gonna talk about next week. It's time for a crisis income. People are really starting to lower their hooves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I told you before: I find it really shameless how the cabinet deals with our caregivers. They deserve an honest reward, because we've all applauded and because they've pulled us through the first peak and because they're in the second peak now. But I would really like to dwell a little longer today on that other argument. The other argument is that this concerns not only our carers but all of us. We now see again that regular care needs to be cancelled, despite being promised that we would try to prevent that. And not a little bit, but quite. After all, we can see that carers are walking on their gums and can't handle it anymore and we're actually asking them for the inhumane. Then it is in all our interests to do something about it. In the interests of everyone who needs care, needs care in the future or knows someone in the family who needs care. They all have to do with scaling down and calling off the regular care. There are just a lot of extra colleagues needed in the care. Of course, other things than pay are incredibly important. We really need to change that one. More control for people who work in care, autonomy over your work, more colleagues. Sure, that's incredibly important. But a good salary, a better salary, is possible and necessary. I therefore find it unheard of and really unacceptable that after all the debates we have had on this subject, our caregivers should again take that blow to their face. We will continue to fight and fight for that fair reward. Then the other worry for the care. I would really like to draw attention here today to care outside hospitals. We are quite right to hear a lot about the ic-capacity again. We see people from the hospitals on TV. That is all right, but look at what happens outside the hospitals with our care at home and in our nursing homes. I read in the letter that the number of nursing homes in the Netherlands where corona is already inside has passed the 500 already. That just goes horribly wrong again. We really learned from the first wave that we need to pay more attention to that. So my question to the cabinet directly is: is that attention there and what exactly does that mean? How do we take that lesson from last time when we already see that in the nursing homes things are going as wrong as they are going to be. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the government's approach. We have often criticised this. What we lack is the perspective, a clear strategy and the fact that the basis or foundation of the approach, namely testing and source and contact research, is in order. That often raises the question of what we want. We want a clear perspective. For this it is necessary to have the basis of testing and the source and contact research in order. De Volkskrant comes today with a look at the kitchen of the source and contact research and how it stands at the moment. That's almost to be despondent. We've been talking about this in the Chamber for months. For months now, we've been asking to make sure that the source and contact research gets organized. We then see that today contact researchers still have nothing to do, because they run into different systems, bureaucratic burdens and because there is no central control. That's impossible, isn't it, when the number of infections is so high? We also read that in some places the source and contact research can no longer be carried out in the most minimal form. That's dramatic. I want to know from the cabinet how many places that is, because it wasn't in the letter. Surely we must succeed in getting it in order? This cabinet really needs to do better. Another point has just been mentioned. That's the test policy. I have a specific question about the rise of the commercial test streets. We saw that the positive tests that were taken there are not always reported. My question to the cabinet is whether this means that we are not losing sight of the virus anymore. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that the positive tested cases of the commercial test states are actually all reported? Finally, Mr President. We all have to stick to the measures. Yes, of course. I think there is no one in this whole Chamber, and I certainly do not want to undermine it. Of course, we all stick to the measures, but I really think that the cabinet needs to do more and more. The fact that the cabinet is leaving so much behind in this crisis approach, which I have just mentioned, does something. Several colleagues mentioned it: yesterday, in a press conference that was not supposed to be called a press conference, it was said more or less between the nose and the lips: boys, this is going to take a while. That's a hell of a message. That's a message with no perspective. This, combined with the fact that the basis is not in order, is extremely dangerous to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u121	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr. Chairman. Hope is the father of thought. That's what Jaap van Dissel said this morning about the government's assumption that the R factor and the number of infections are now falling. Hope. But hope is not a strategy, hope is not an approach and hope is not a policy in a health crisis like this. Because what are the facts? A hospital that shuts down for 24 hours. An ambulance that has to run in circles. In that ambulance, your child could have fallen down the stairs. In that ambulance, your father could be fighting for his life after a heart attack. This is happening now, in the Netherlands, in 2020. Hope is the father of thought. Mr. Chairman. The facts we know do not at all show that it is easy, that it will be okay, or that we can afford to wait and see. The facts that we know show that you have to intervene, whether it's the sewer data Heerma was talking about, whether it's the infections, whether it's the percentage of positive tests, which is more than three times as high as the limit value that Europe sets for that. Mr. Chairman. "Hope is the father of thought" is a dangerous strategy and a dangerous approach when it comes to people who get sick and who may be struggling with the consequences for months or years, or when you see that people die again in the nursing homes. And the economy, the Prime Minister says. That false contradiction between the economy and health must be over. It is precisely for the economy that the picture of a quackwinter that lasts until January and in which the catering industry is sacrificed is a tragedy. It has already been recalled, and I also find it inappropriate to say at a press conference, which for me is no longer called a press conference, but a 'press moment', something you could have known three weeks ago. With these measures, it is not over in November, it is not over in December and you have to wonder whether it will be over in January. What's to be done? There's got to be a new plan, a different approach, where you take those measures that are needed to reduce the infections faster, and then you take care of them, by being on top of them with tests, tracking and quarantines that help people, keeping the infections down. Kuipers said it this morning: the approach to staying just below 1 can be applied to a lower number of infections. I could have done that in the summer. We still have to do it now to give entrepreneurs a perspective, to prevent illness, to ensure that people in care are not overburdened any more and to ensure that we do not have a situation where some ambulances are driving around in a situation where sick people are denied care, in the Netherlands, in 2020. Hope is the father of thought. No, there's an obligation. There is an obligation for public authorities to protect health. And that obligation means that it is better to intervene now than to regret for a lifetime, and that the precautionary principle must apply, and so you must adopt an approach that protects health. If the government does, that also means something to all of us, namely sticking to the rules and making a contribution. I'd like to add a call. We see that care workers who received flowers in the previous wave now get the middle finger. I think that we should call those who behave badly in test streets and in hospitals to order. I would also like to call again for our support to be made clear to the care sector. The initiatives that were there then are important, because people are still tired of that first wave. And we can all contribute to that. We can all show that the work that is being done there is special and valuable. We can do that by taking an approach now, which will make it less difficult for them to do so. We can do this by supporting social initiatives to alleviate work in healthcare. There are wonderful initiatives to help from the catering industry. And the cabinet would do well to express that in more salary, because whether it is voted for by mistake or not, this is an extremely important and extremely serious moment in Dutch history. It's an unprecedented crisis. In addition, it is not appropriate to say that it was a mistake, was asleep. We need to be clear now: we support the people in the care and we tackle that virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u123	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr President. The protection of life, also for the well-being of everyone, and special attention to vulnerable people. Those are the values that the Christian Union has in mind over and over again when we talk about combating the corona virus, even with the long winter ahead of us. In this time of polarization and confusion there is a screaming need for perspective in our society. Firstly, there is this need in the hospitals, whose message this morning is unfortunately also very clear to me. The rack's kind of out, and more needs to be done to keep our care up. But there is also that need in the hospitality and in the people's home. The cabinet has indicated its willingness to wait for further action. That's too soon. But the Christian Union has another concern: isn't it too late? I have some questions. To what do the Cabinet now send with the current package of measures? Is that controllability of hospital care, or a strong reduction in R-value, which makes source and contact research possible again? If you take more measures now, the R-number might go down faster and sharper and create space to relax step by step, for example in combination with quick tests. This could ultimately be better for our society and better for the economy. If this scenario is calculated, I'll ask the cabinet. And why does the cabinet come to the balance it makes now? Are the extra costs for our economy and our society not too great if we wait too long now? And can figures of non-GMD test streets also be included in the RIVM figures, precisely because the share of commercial testing that is being reduced is growing? There is also a need for clarity in the perspective. The Roadmap can help with this. But when does the Cabinet expect the level of risk to be reduced? What's it gonna take? Finally in this list, but certainly not the least: the pgb-holders. There still lacks the bill for unsupplied care. This affects those caregivers who did not receive money, but also jeopardises the continuity of care for the pgb-holders. When is this arrangement due? Mr. Chairman. Now that winter is coming, and the virus is still so far present, we all notice that gloom and pessimism are lurking. In April, we asked the cabinet by motion to pay attention to the mental well-being of people. The motto is again: hang in there. But how can we help each other to hang on? And what can the government do to enable society to do this for each other? Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with the values that are important for the Christian Union. I've got to get something off my chest. At a time when nursing homes have to close departments, restaurants can no longer be opened and visits to theater and church should be kept to a minimum, casinos and sex clubs are still open. It takes a Chamber decision to curb drug use on the streets. I ask the Prime Minister what are his values in making this kind of consideration. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The values, the protection of life, also for everyone's well-being, and the attention to the vulnerable are values from the heart of the church. Just at this time, with the promise of Christmas in prospect, they can offer a sign of hope. For the summer, the motion of my colleagues Seegers cum suis was adopted in order to make arrangements with churches to achieve local customization and perspective, and to involve the municipality. So far it has been mainly limited to occasional conversations on Monday morning. When is the cabinet really going to work on this motion, precisely because of the role that churches already play and are able to play even more effectively in the care of our neighbors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u125	I hear questions about things that the Christian Union would like more stringent things and repression about; that fits in with the ideas. What I only missed in the list was a call to churches to also take responsibility, which, unfortunately, does not yet happen at all churches. I missed everyone who spoke to you admonishingly just this group. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u126	I did not raise this in the debate today, but I believe that at an earlier stage my colleague Gert-Jan Seegers has called on the churches to take responsibility for this. So it has not been said today, but it has happened at an earlier stage, and I can also endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u127	I hear the Christian Union talking about pgb-holders. I wholeheartedly support that. I think there is far too little attention to that. It's really a forgotten group, the care workers working out of a pgb. Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me that the health care workers who work from a pgb should also receive the health bonus and that it is a grave shame that the directive that was to be made and which was already promised in June, with the conditions under which those health care workers would receive the bonus, is still not there, one day before the deadline expires?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u128	I welcome the fact that this point is now being included in the debate. I have questions about this, too. I can imagine that this question is now being put to the House. I'm very curious about the government's response. I'd like to wait and see before I can go into this further. Because I can imagine the question very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u129	Yesterday, the Christian Union also voted jointly and severally against my motion to extend the application period for the healthcare bonus. I am very curious to hear the answers of the cabinet. Will Mrs Dik-Faber reconsider whether she will still support my motion if it is put back to the vote by roll call?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u130	Sure. We always think about motions that are going to be put to the vote, I say with a wink. We certainly do. We voted against this motion with the knowledge we had at the time. I would like to hear from the cabinet today the current state of play regarding the application for this bonus. If the current state of affairs gives rise to a review of the application period, then my group is open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u131	One last time when it comes to the Members of the Chamber and also the colleague of the Christian Union. It was her colleague, Mrs Van der Graaf, who helped a majority of my motion on healthcare salaries. I'm sorry it was a mistake, but the motion was accepted. I hear the colleague of the Christian Union just urged the cabinet to adopt a previously adopted motion of the Christian Union... That, I think, is also an important value. You talked about values in politics, about the constitutional value of majority voting. You're asking the same question yourself. Do you not think that it was your party, at least one of them, who helped the motion to a majority, that the cabinet should carry out that motion? And that the cabinet that has to carry out according to the idea of the proposers of the proposer in this case, and of the people who support it, cannot give it its own twist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u132	This motion has indeed been adopted, albeit by mistake of my colleague, but it has been adopted. I fully agree with Mr Wilders. At the same time, when I read the letter from the cabinet, I also think that action is being taken in the spirit of the motion. Mr Wilders cannot agree with that, but if we adopt a motion today to increase salaries, it will simply not be settled tomorrow. That's not how it works. This cabinet has... All this has already been listed, so I am not going to repeat what the cabinet is doing now: extra money, extra percentages. That is all in the letter and has been exchanged in the debate. But a committee has also gone to work. That committee is going to look at where the bottlenecks are very specific. We will hear more about this at the beginning of next year. That report will just be on the table next year. In addition to what is already happening now, the billions that are going to go there, in addition to the occasional improvement with the health bonus, there will soon be a report to address specific bottlenecks in the starting salary in the wage building. In my view, that is the spirit of Mr Wilders' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u133	No, because that was my thought. You can't decide what my thoughts were, can you? I don't do that to you either. I'm sorry you're gonna do that to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u134	I tried bravely, but I understand it failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u135	You cannot determine my ideas and therefore do not supplement them or think that anything is in line with them. My thoughts, as well as those of the people and the parties who supported the motion, were that, in the light of everything we already knew about what the cabinet was doing and would be doing, what is stated in this morning's letter, there should also be a substantial structural increase in salaries. Fortunately, your group has helped to secure a majority. I'm sorry to say this, but you too are running away from that now. You too now say: well, let that majority be the majority. If the cabinet is going to answer your question immediately, then you are not satisfied either. So don't you think that it's not a big deal and that it wasn't a mistake, but that it was a great result for all the people who work in care? More than a million people currently work in healthcare in the Netherlands. They often work for a low salary. You will only have to sit in one of the lowest pay scales and clean someone's buttocks in a hospital or nursing home for €1,800, €1,900 gross per month. Then you don't get rich on 3% salary. 3% on almost nothing is still almost nothing. This motion calls for a substantial improvement on that. You helped that motion to a majority, yes, not you personally, but one of your group. And you just say to the people who do that work: look at it; we'll look at it next year. That's not democratic, is it? You're talking about values. You're talking about values in politics. This is also a value. Don't throw it away!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u136	I think Mr Wilders knows very well how it works. If a motion is adopted here in the Chamber, it will simply not be settled tomorrow. That's not how it works. I see here a cabinet that has put a committee to work. I am simply going to explain this again, because I thought Mr Wilders' example was very appropriate. There is indeed a profession that is working in the care sector for far too low a salary, but that is exactly what this committee is going to look at. One is not looking at a generic salary increase for everyone who works in healthcare, but very specifically at where it pinches. Are there any parts in the care, specific steps in the wage building or start-up salaries where just really things are cramped? If there really is an inexplicable difference in relation to other sectors, such as education, then we need to find a solution. That report is on the table at the beginning of next year. I am sure that the people who are looking into this will probably be the next cabinet, in addition to what was in the cabinet's letter today. So I think we can be happy about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u137	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Party for Animals. Are you going to greet everyone, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u138	I have just said goodbye to the ministers, who, in spite of everything, are also having a hard time. So a friendly word can always be. And then it'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u139	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u140	You know that from the Animal Party, Chairman. I'm gonna start friendly and then we're gonna loosen up. Mr. Chairman. The chairman of the National Network of Acute Care, Mr Kuipers, said this morning about the current approach to the coronavirus that we sail sharply to the wind. That's one way of putting it. You could also say: the cabinet is playing with fire. I'm not the first to worry her about the choice to wait, especially in the light of the still failing base. I agree with the questions put by Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver on testing policy and source and contact research. The question really is whether it is wise what the cabinet is doing now. But I would also like to emphasise the following. This has been going on since the end of February, March, and we have our hands full with the current crisis, but if we continue to pay attention to the delusion of the day, we will overlook major other dangers. The cabinet called the corona crisis a black swan, an event you couldn't see coming. Now two white swans with bird flu have been found in the Netherlands. We're being warned about bird flu. The Netherlands has dozens of outbreaks per year. Animal diseases are of all times, but it's going to be a problem if you breed animals massively, catch them, stuff them and kill them. Let that be what we do in the Netherlands. Where is the VWS Minister's approach, or at least his ministry's? I imagine he's got other things on his mind, but it can't be that the officials in that ministry are still chasing LNV? If there is such a virus outbreak, the only guarantee that the Dutch government currently has is that we will be hiding all the animals. Can the VWS minister say whether he knows how many avian flu has broken out in duck farming? Ducks never leave the Netherlands. They're always locked up. Yet there are also outbreaks of avian flu there. This week we have received a NVWA report showing that the NVWA cannot do two thirds of its tasks. The risk of the outbreak of animal diseases is greater and the NVWA does not see it. When did they find out about this report at the U.S. Attorney General's Office? Because playing with fire, that's what the cabinet does to livestock farming. Almost smilingly putting on a powder keg and then waiting for it to explode. Duck farming was stopped. It's just rebooted. The pig slaughter is now going to export to China. It seems that the Dutch cabinet has simply cooperated in re-opening those Chinese markets. Vion wants to slaughter faster, while the Chamber has adopted a motion that says that the rate of slaughter should be reduced. These people cannot otherwise work in accordance with the RIVM Directive. Motion after motion is passed, but the cabinet keeps looking away. That is completely irresponsible. Mr. Chairman. Then the mink. I have already mentioned it in an interrupting debate with Mr Heerma. In Denmark, the mutations are now being warned. A fermenting, bubbling vessel in which the virus produces on average two new mutations per month, that is mink farming. And then we haven't even looked at all those other animals that could also be containable for corona. The Minister must intervene there as soon as it occurs there. If you are working on a vaccine, you should take it with you that mutations from mink farming, for example, can cause a new variant of the virus to develop in people against which that vaccine is no longer going to work. That's a huge risk. I understand that the Prime Minister has a European video conference tomorrow with his colleagues to see how we can contain the pandemic. He's got two things to do there. There must be a European ban on mink breeding and an import ban on all that fur from China, which, of course, is also a risk of an outbreak of another pandemic. I call the raccoon dog, but also all those other species that, if human beings continue to deal with them in this way, can create a huge risk of a next pandemic. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u141	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u142	Madam President. It always stayed with me: a work visit a few years ago to a hospital in Utrecht. That was about patient safety and what could go wrong. Then we got a video of basketball players. We were ordered to count how often the ball was overwhelmed. We counted fanatically. Afterwards, we were asked if we had seen that man in a gorilla suit go across the field. A gorilla suit? I didn't see anything. We watched that video one more time and everyone said, "How come we didn't see it?" I can't believe it! I had to think back in the run-up to this debate. Could there be blind spots in our dealings with the coronavirus? Don't we miss some gorillas? Because if you have a very strong focus on something, you can just get a blind spot, have a tunnel vision. Mr. Chairman. We are now right to look at the best possible care for corona patients, with a thick line under "right', but the question is what is at stake more than just that good care. When considering long-term strict measures, especially if they are long-term measures, it is important to keep an eye on social damage, which can also be caused by the measures. My practical question is: are these things now also on a dashboard to make trade-offs? How do we get our information on this? What is the price of more loneliness, for example? People are gonna rot because they don't have a visitor. We are aware of the stress of entrepreneurs, the concerns of workers and young people. I also refer to the corona measures for all kinds of other activities, such as divine services, moments when our eyes are drawn from the here and now and the eye is directed towards God. There are still many examples to name. From that broader perspective, that broader consideration, I am not easily standing here today: make the measures even more stringent; why not go through with it? I was pleased to note that this caution and broader political weighting also reflected in last night's press statement. To be honest, I also had a point of criticism. It was explained that measures were still in force with Saint Martin. I had to think about what exactly happens then, but that aside. But it seemed a bit like it went from St. Martin to St. Martin's. When does it stop? What is the perspective of these measures? That stuck in the air a little bit. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, I say to people who call out "stop all measures," "look wider and see what's happening in society" and "it's all not that bad with the virus for a lot of people.': Yes, but come and check out the hospitals, the rehabilitation centers and listen to doctors and nurses begging us to stick to the measures. Those doctors and nurses say: we weren't beaten out of the first wave, and we have to get full again; we're walking on gums. That's part of the whole picture. But the recurring question, which also raises the question of perspective, is: where exactly are we going? If the thought is that only the vaccine is going to save us "just hang in there and then everything will be okay," then that's a risky tunnel vision. It could be a lot different. I also see warnings for too great optimism: a vaccine only reduces the chance of infection and does not completely exclude it and it cannot work properly. Those are all facts, too. That is why this question too: if the virus is not simply to be crushed, then it has all the appearance of.................................................................................................................................................................................... And should you no longer make use of the strength and commitment of business to get the test capacity in order? Shouldn't we be making more drastic efforts to increase care capacity outside the hospital? What could be the additional role of the army? What additional options are available for patient care outside the hospital? What role can general practitioners play in this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a cry of hearts. I hear about and see increasing aggression against healthcare workers. I think we're all saying here: this is really not possible; this is the world upside down. What is the government doing to protect those care workers and to give them the recognition and appreciation they deserve? And why is Mr Wilders' motion adopted yesterday not being carried out? If I may put the question differently, why is this motion actually discouraged if it can simply be carried out in this way? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u143	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eight months of corona debates; I get the impression that we're moving in circles. I hear Mr Veldman of the VVD after eight months of debate asking what is really going on with the testing and the BCO. That's kind of embarrassing, actually. We just see it's not in order. We see we're in a miserable situation. Ambulances drive in circles because they can't lose patients. General practitioners can't help their patients because there's no capacity in the hospital. People see their treatment postponed. Entrepreneurs see their life's work broken and have to wait and see when they can open up again. The country is in crisis and the misery is palpable. This cabinet doesn't do enough. In doing so, the cabinet itself facilitated the partial lockdown. While all the meters were on red, De Jonge muddled a bit. I'm not just saying that; that's what the own advisory body, the Outbreak Management Team, says: the package of 28 September was far too thin. Mr. Chairman. In one thing, the cabinet is consistent: in poor communication. In addition to the same questions about testing, BCO and healthcare salaries, it's always about that communication. Yesterday there was another low. Hugo de Jonge, the minister, played nicely with a reproduction number of 0.88, while according to RIVM this is the bestcase scenario. We just don't know. We can look back up to 12 days ago at most. And that terrible remark that the lockdown would last until December. Nota bene in an answer to a question, De Jonge indicated in a clause that we would still be dealing with these measures until December. In the evening we saw Mona Keijzer, the secretary of state, still member of the same cabinet, I think, and also party mate of Mr De Jonge. She said, "No, I called, and it's just different." That's not communication, is it? You can't let another member of the government explain that differently, can you? Then we get a letter and it's something else. Total lack of clarity. It doesn't matter to tell the Netherlands in a subtle way that we don't have two weeks but another six weeks in a lockdown. What kind of a blow to the face of all these entrepreneurs? 'Cause they're in sacks and ashes and they really count down the days. How can the government actually conclude that we are still in a lockdown until December, when we do not even know the effects of the measures? Crisis communication is a profession, and the cabinet fails in that. Hugo the Young fails in that. And we see an innovative approach. We're seeing a failing test policy, still not in order. We're seeing a source and contact search that's on his ass. Care is being scaled down. The infections are getting worse. It keeps muddying. I also really wonder: who ever told Hugo the Young that he could lead a crisis? Was that in the job profile? Because care beeps and cracks. We see that vulnerable people are most affected, but we also see that corona has already broken out in 550 nursing homes. And we're still thinking back to the horror scenario last time, when we were at 1,000 nursing homes. How do we prevent it from going that way? Finally. Winter's coming. It is a difficult time for many people, and in combination with corona it is even more difficult. I speak to many young people who are lonely, who also have depressed feelings. Older people who are lonely, who don't get visitors. People on their own. We can't leave them to their fate. I therefore ask what this cabinet will do, specifically for the most vulnerable, for these groups of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u145	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People I've been talking to lately are worried and afraid. They're seeing the number of infections. They hear ambulances have to drive around in circles to find a bed. They're seeing surgeries canceled. And they see a minister waiting to see if the current measures will be effective enough. This doesn't rhyme with each other. 50PLUS fears that the cabinet will make the same mistake as last time. Don't you think it's gonna take too long? And we understand that stricter measures have a lot of impact, but more stringent measures can always be reversed. In the care it is five past twelve: absenteeism runs up, care institutions don't get their schedule around and employees walk on their gums. In hospitals, regular care is now forced to be scaled down. But in nursing homes, scaling is not possible. You can't leave residents of nursing homes in bed all day. People need to be cared for. And from the field we hear really worrying developments. Employees who are sick at home are called to come to work; also people who are regularly quarantined or infected with the coronavirus. You can't do that. Is the Minister getting these signals, and what are they going to do about this? And what does not help is that the motion on more money for care workers, which was adopted yesterday as a surprise but also a pleasure, is not being carried out. How is that even possible? Caregivers work their way around and get this stench for thanks. Many healthcare institutions come up with creative solutions to support care staff as best they can. We already saw in the culture sector buddies for nursing home residents. That's good. It seems good to 50PLUS to collect such ideas somewhere at a central point, where healthcare institutions can go. Because we now hear that many healthcare providers are inventing the wheel themselves. And the website extrahandenvoordezorg.nl is there for former care professionals, but it would be nice if there were also a website where, for example, that catering entrepreneur can register his staff or providers of daily use can use volunteers. I'd like a response from the Minister. And on this, I mentioned it: the catering entrepreneur is now getting 80% of the wage costs paid; is there any way to compensate for the full salary costs if they ensure that those employees are employed for the care? I'd like a response. Colleagues also said it: aggression towards healthcare workers is increasing. Unacceptable. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, more efforts should be made to enforce and punish people who behave badly. It must be clear that we do not tolerate this behavior. It would help if the cabinet were clear in its policy on measures. Clarity makes people follow faster. Would a public campaign to call on people to understand the situation still help? And finally, Mr President, a few more questions. 50PLUS asked written questions about ventilation in nursing homes at the end of last month. I read in the letter that the nursing homes have the ventilation in order. But why does it take us so long to get answers to our questions? Shouldn't that be apple egg? The figures for the technical briefing showed that the majority of corona infections occur especially in age groups 20 to 29 years and 50 to 59 years. What conclusion does the Minister draw from this? Why do these two age groups just jump out? Many commercial test streets do not pass their results on to the GGD. To what extent do we have a realistic picture of the number of infections? Finally, Mr. Chairman. Many vulnerable elderly people are currently denying themselves a lot and retreating out of fear of infection. 90% of the elderly live at home. How can we ensure that they do not unite? How can we look back at each other? What was so common in the first wave, we seem to have completely forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u147	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u148	Mr. Chairman. It's uncertain times. A lot of people are worried. I see scared faces on the street at the supermarket. Sticky eyes sometimes from behind a mouth cover, even here in the Chamber. Maybe these people are scared because they think they belong to a risk group, or because they can see the number of hospital admissions rising and fear that there will be overload. But a lot of other people feel very alone. They have fewer and fewer people around them, less social contact. Others are concerned about losing their business or their jobs as a result of the very drastic measures. They wonder whether the measures are proportionate and effective, whether the medicine does not get worse than the disease. For all these people, we need attention. To all these people we must offer perspective, to the vulnerable for corona, but also to the vulnerable for the consequences of the measures against corona. So we definitely need to prevent hospital care from overloading. Of course. But why doesn't the government still make the most of increasing capacity in healthcare? In recent years, tens of thousands of nurses and doctors have flown out. Why aren't these people being rehired? Temporary agencies have these people in their files. Private clinics have offered to take on regular hospital care. The government isn't doing anything about it. Internationally, there is also plenty of medical staff available. That staff could be offered temporary contracts of employment. So how can it be that a rich country like the Netherlands still does not have enough capacity in care so that regular care can continue? How come this is still not settled after eight months? Now here in The Hague ambulances are driving around the hospital with caretakers, because there is no room for new patients. This kind of message is expected from third world countries, but not from the prosperous Netherlands. This is a very serious mismanagement. Why is the scenario of a two-track policy still not being explored? In doing so, you protect the vulnerable, but you offer the rest of society the opportunity to continue with life, with the economy, with their businesses, with school, universities, sports clubs, entertainment venues, and so on. What's the plan if that dreamed vaccine doesn't happen? Will we continue to switch back and forth continuously for a year, two years, three years or four years with lockdowns as the figures of the notoriously unreliable PCR tests rise again? That's not a realistic option, is it? Even the World Health Organization on which the cabinet is operating before now says that a lockdown only makes sense if you have a plan for what you want to do afterwards; a short lockdown may be possible if you have a plan afterwards. However, there is no such thing. Why, for example, is there still no adequate ventilation? Why is it advised to stay indoors as much as possible when vitamin D appears to be effective to strengthen the immune system? I cannot understand why the cabinet continues to neglect all these points, that Rutte and De Jonge continue to threaten long-term lockdowns and curfews, which will have disastrous social and economic consequences for society as a whole, while all the possibilities to make the care adequate remain. It's always been our position. In the beginning, of course, we didn't know what was coming at us. In February there was a short lockdown to see what was going on, but since then, since April, we have been arguing for customization, for a dual flow policy, for protecting vulnerable groups, for scaling up the capacity in care and for getting back to the old normal as quickly as possible for as many people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u149	Thank you. My list includes Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Haga and Mr Krol. Is that the order? Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. I have it here on my list. Yeah, or we're gonna vote on it by roll call. I call Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Tomorrow is the deadline to apply for the care bonus for the care heroes from the first wave and we are now in the middle of the second wave. We promised these heroes $1,000 net. The Minister also knows that the application is not exactly flawless. It's a drama. It's a gross disgrace. As a Chamber, we have received dozens of letters from trade unions, trade unions, health institutions and other employers who find the directive unclear. To my questions in previous debates, the Minister answered very clearly that if employers feel that their employees have made an extra effort, that bonus is just there for them. But it's still not going well. I ask the Minister how they have been communicated about this. How many health bonuses have been applied for so far? What percentage is that of the number the ministry was counting on? How many employees are employed by the health care institution and how many of them work as temp, zzp'er or as a person with a different form of contract or assignment? It rains complaints about healthcare providers who refuse to apply for the bonus for zzp's and agency workers. I've seen lists and the Minister has seen the same lists. Besides, it's in all the papers. Furthermore, the people who work with a personal budget, a pgb, are really a forgotten group. A large part of it would be entitled to the health bonus, but it doesn't. How did it happen that the promised health bonus directive for pgb is still not there one day before the deadline expires? How is the Minister going to get all these employees the bonus they're entitled to? Should I then re-vote my motion to extend the application period for the healthcare bonus or does the Minister himself understand that the application period should be extended? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u151	I see you standing, Mr. Krol, but I'm just holding on to the list of speakers. We'll figure it out, you may be right, but I'm going to see Mr Van Haga now. You're really the last one on the list, Mr. Krol. I may be wrong, but I'll let you know. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr. Chairman. The PCR test has a lot of false positives in low prevalence. In addition, PCR test is also positive if you had corona six months ago. And recently, the PCR test is even less reliable because the number of cycles has been increased. As a result, cancer patients and people with appendicitis are wrongly registered as covid patients and workers are quarantined at home for ten days for nothing, including those working in care. Why don't we do additional clinical trials in a positive PCR test? And why aren't we doing any independent research into the reliability of the PCR test? Mr. Chairman. Based on this unreliable PCR test, hospitals are filled with covid patients. At least, we're running into the capacity of our hospitals and our ic-beds. Ernst Kuipers said: North Rhine-Westphalia is about the same size as the Netherlands and has five times as many ic-beds. That's a political choice. Why have we cut the number of ic-beds in the last ten years and why haven't we scaled up much in the last seven months? And why didn't we set up a special corona hospital anyway? Because if the capacity is the problem, we should have done everything we could to arrange more ic-beds. The medical and economic collateral damage of the failing cabinet policy and the disproportionate measures taken by the cabinet are now beyond all bounds. Mr. Chairman. I'm asking questions about things that are demonstrably incorrect, but I can't get an answer. Something is laughing and everything is dismissed as conspiracy thinking and quacking. I do not believe in conspiracies, but I do believe in abuse of power, in perverse interests and incompetence, and with me now many doctors, biochemists and engineers. Large groups in society are devastated by this cabinet's malpractice, a policy in which we stumble from lockdown to lockdown. And where our Prime Minister even bravely spoke at the beginning about group immunity, we now move on to group integrity, with a closer lockdown, which would be completely unnecessary if capacity had been put in order in hospitals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u153	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol. There's been a misunderstanding. You registered later, but you should indeed have the floor earlier, at number 14. Mr Wilders thinks you can have ten more seconds to make up for it. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of concerns about the second time RIVM has to deal with a malfunction within a week. Today, as far as I know, the numbers are still not in. How is that possible? This morning, during the technical briefing, Mr Kuzu asked a question which concerns me very much. Shouldn't behavioural scientists be added to RIVM? We are seeing more and more protests all over the world against the measures taken and I think it is wise not to dismiss anyone who has questions or any other opinion as crazy. In my view, Mr Van Dissel gave the only correct answer. He reported that RIVM wants to come up with medical advice on the virus with medical professionals and other stakeholders. Then at that stage, you should not allow that to be restricted by potentially obstructive insights from behavioral scientists. But then, when the cabinet and we in the Chamber start working on these advices, such behavioral scientists are extremely important. Hence my pressing question to the Ministers: are we making sufficient use of it? All measures to be taken depend on the willingness to comply with these rules as far as possible. If we follow our rules for the music, even though the group of willing ones is much bigger than the group of critics, then that causes unrest, even rebellion. Does the Minister wish to dwell on this in detail? And then there's the extended hospitality lock-up, except for hotels. That was announced during yesterday's press session and that is, I notice in my surroundings, a death blow for many entrepreneurs, also restaurant owners who have coronaproofed their space. Why should we not be able to exempt them, like restaurants in hotels for hotel guests? Finally, if we have adopted a motion here, it must simply be implemented. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u155	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u156	We will continue the debate on the developments surrounding the coronavirus. We have come to the Government's response. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to answer the questions about last night's press release, plus a little varia. Then the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport will discuss the long-term perspective and also three specific issues: testing, flu vaccines and minks. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport will talk about everything related to salaries and the bonus, and about the capacity of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr. Wilders. A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u159	I really want to talk to the Prime Minister about healthcare salaries, especially because he himself made a statement on Friday, with his press conferences, about what he does with motions when they are adopted. I think that is also one of the points of today's debate. So with all due respect to the Minister for Medical Care, I would like to have the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u160	That's fine. I listened back to that press conference, by the way. What I said there was not 'that was corrected later on in the ANP', but 'we will stick to a Chamber statement', but 'we have to relate to a Chamber statement'. So we don't stick to it, but we have to relate to it. This is just a reaction to Wilders, who says that Rutte said: I am going to carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u161	You have literally said I have it here in front of me; it is still on national government.nl...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u162	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u163	Yeah, that's right... Today. There's this. The journalist, De Winther, asks: "But I think that many health care workers really just want to hear from the Prime Minister which way it is going. Do they have a chance of an additional wage increase on top of what has been agreed?" Reply from the Prime Minister: "If you would do that, I'll watch that Chamber meeting and then we'll have to stick to the Chamber statement." That stands today, nothing corrected, on national government.nl. The thrust of this motion, the operative part, is similar to that on which we voted yesterday. The Minister, the Prime Minister, I must say, apologise to the electorate, the people in the care, so promised that if that motion is adopted, it will also be implemented. This means that, on top of what is already in existence, there is not the letter from the Minister for Medical Care saying what we are all going to do; we already knew that they were going to do so, but on top of what was already known, an additional, substantial, structural wage increase should come. He promised, and he shouldn't run away from that. You must keep your promise. You just have to do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u164	That is not true, and that has also been corrected with the ANP. Listen also to the fragment of that press conference. That's what I'm saying: you have to relate to that. You have to relate to an adopted motion. The ANP also corrected this in a later take. That does not alter the fact that we can have a very fundamental debate here on this increase in wages. But for the sake of clarity, at the press conference on 14 August, I say that you have to relate to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u165	But relate, keep... It means exactly the same thing. If you have to relate to that, that means you're saying you're carrying out that motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u166	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u167	You're not having an affair with a motion, you're sticking to it! You relate to that. That means that you have radiated and said that you are sticking to it. But apart from what the Minister has said, the Minister is simply supposed to carry out a motion from the Chamber. Don't go past that. The Chamber has adopted a motion. And again, so often it does not happen that the opposition gets a majority in any way on an important motion, not for us, not for the honour and glory of the opposition, but for those caregivers! Now that happens once, and then you should not try to wiggle out with a word, "keep" and "tell." Then you just have to be a guy and say, okay, we've lost that; clumsyness, but we're gonna do that motion. For the care workers, we're gonna do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u168	One more time, Mr. Chairman. I think there's two things going on here. One, how do you describe the term "relation"? For me, that's a term I use more often. That's what I'm talking about. When a certain political fact arises, you have to relate to that fact. That means you have to determine your position in relation to that political fact. That's one thing. Two is, how do you deal with yesterday's Chamber speech? That is, of course, a relevant question, because there is an explanation of vote. The cabinet, Minister Van Ark, sent a letter today, this afternoon. You saw that letter. We believe that we are already carrying out this motion. That's actually the essence of that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u169	It was a point of order, but I notice that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u170	Perhaps you will allow me to reply to more than the point of order that we are now discussing this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u171	Oh, yeah. All right. I think that's just a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u172	Okay. If that's all right with you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u174	We're Democrats. We're not making a coup d'état. We're not going to the Tower with a squeak to scare you away. We are using a nonviolent, democratic means. The only way we as democratic MPs have, Prime Minister, is to fight again every day in order to get a majority in favour of our positions. Sometimes it does, and often it doesn't. We don't do that for ourselves, but for what we believe in. In this case, those are the care workers. Since we do not use violent, crazy means, but only use democratic means, I have another question to ask you first: what on earth should we do if even the means of a parliamentary majority no longer help to achieve anything for the opposition? If that doesn't help anymore, if a majority in the Chamber doesn't help to change policy anymore, what do you have to do as an opposition? What means do we have to fight for the people in the country for whom we want to do what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u175	An adopted motion is very relevant. It is not the case that the cabinet, by definition, automatically executes everything that is in an adopted motion. The cabinet has to make such a motion. That means you have to determine a position: how do I handle that motion? We have always taken the next position. We believe that another 1 billion extra, demonstrably, should go to healthcare salaries in 2021. In addition, we have the 130 million to improve healthcare work. Mr Heerma and others referred to this. We see that a total of about 5 billion more went to healthcare salaries in the period 2018-2020. So we already believe that next year there will be a substantial additional increase for care, of around 1 billion structuralally. That is, of course, separate from the two bonuses, for this year and next year. That translates into good collective agreements. That is our view. That is what I said in the Chamber: we are already doing what the motion asks. When the Chamber said that it wanted much more on top of that, the Minister for Medical Care said: I must advise against the motion, but strictly speaking, we are doing everything in that motion, its literal text. We still think so. So we do not intend to spend much more money on this at a time when the Netherlands is going through a serious crisis, we have to free up a lot of money for a lot of priorities at a very difficult time and public debt is rising rapidly. It is very important that salaries in health care can continue to rise. They can. As a result of what has already happened, I am referring to the 5 billion in recent years, and I would like to add another 1 billion in structural increases in health care. We believe that, in the balance with all the other things that have to be done, that is fair and proper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u176	Finally. We're not filing any motions to discuss what the cabinet thinks. If you think it's right what the cabinet does, you don't file a motion; then you support the cabinet. We are going to table motions in this House if we want to change something if we want something other than the cabinet. This motion is not for nothing dissuaded by the ruler for that reason. The ruler found, and that was crystal clear... The interpretation and explanation of the petitioner, supported by all the other groups in the Chamber who helped the motion to a majority, is that on top of what the cabinet is already doing, we already knew that a structural, substantial wage increase will come for all those heroes in the care. Again, it's no use just applause. They don't need a bonus they haven't even gotten. They don't need a promise about another bonus they haven't even gotten. They often have very little pay. 3%, 4% or 5% still do not do enough justice to their beautiful and gigantic beautiful work. The majority of the House says that it succeeds, at least for me, once in so many years on an important subject: "We are going to do so. Not to help Wilders, but to help those care workers. We're gonna give those care workers something extra." Then I think that if you are a democrat and do not want to be a democrat, then I do not want to say that other crazy things are happening, in traffic with the Chamber: 'It is an annoying fact. I don't want to, but I'll back that up. I support the majority's wish. The care workers are going to get that." I find it incomprehensible and unacceptable. I can really get really upset about you saying, "We're already doing that. The Minister of Medical Care is sending a note from one A4's office. Fuck it, Room, we're doing enough already." That's not how democracy works. We're filing motions to change something. Then it's gonna work out. It's gonna work out no matter how it goes, and you're gonna have to do it. Then you'll have to do it for the care workers. I find it really incomprehensible and unimaginable that you do not. This isn't a threat. It may be the most common motion of censure I will ever table if the Prime Minister does not do so, because it is undemocratic and antisocial to all those people in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u177	An accepted chamber motion is very relevant. It is also a very important subject, but it is not the case that the cabinet is then a stamp machine and has to carry out the motion literally, with all the interpretations given to it by the Chamber. That's not how it works. We need to look at what is real in the movement between the cabinet and the chamber to deal with this political situation. What we find real is that in a crisis such as this, we have to make choices in scarcity. There's a big shortage. We must now spend tens of billions more to support the economy in this serious crisis. We are now seeing that salaries in the healthcare sector have increased in recent years and that there will also be room for additional increases in healthcare pay next year, in addition to the bonus. In addition to that, we held that debate in the Chamber in August. But what concerns them above all is control over their own function and where they are to work that day, control over the organisation's organisation. What hits them is the workload. What affects them are matters such as start-up scales in collective agreements and throughflow possibilities in hospitals and nursing homes. These are all matters that we want to address with the package that was laid down on Princess' Day, which builds up to 130 million structuralally for care from 2023. We will continue to discuss this with the Chamber. I think that, in a balance sheet, we are trying in a proper way to support the important sector of health care in a really decent way, both in terms of salary and in terms of all the other aspects, but in terms of weighing up all the other priorities that the government has and I really need to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u178	We're in the middle of a very big crisis and the Cabinet keeps telling us to do it together. What's happening now is really unacceptable to me. This has nothing to do with "doing together." It's not about us being a room, it's about those caregivers. They are the foundation for pulling us through this whole crisis. We need them all so badly. And we see how painful the staff shortages are at the moment, how dire the situation is and how much it is necessary to make this beautiful profession even more attractive. A decent appreciation is an important component in that. So I would like to say here today that it is really unacceptable for us and that we expect a better response from the cabinet. First, it says 'we are already carrying out the motion' and lists all kinds of things that have been said before. But that is not the point, because a structural increase in wages was requested, and the Prime Minister says: no, we do not like that for all kinds of reasons. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to be honest about this. Do you indeed say "no, we are not going to carry out the motion," despite the fact that there is a majority for it here in the Lower House, that there is also a majority for it in the Upper Chamber and that the caregivers cannot face an additional salary increase? Or do you keep the story "we want it anyway," but does it stick to the list we already know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u179	I think Mrs Marijnissen is right to draw attention to the important issue of staff shortages. In addition, I have asked for attention, in my previous reply, to the important theme of ownership of the profession, to be able to determine both how the function is exercised, and work pressure, as well as the representation of nurses at all levels of decision-making in a hospital. We want to address such important issues with the whole programme that is coming. And there is indeed a very important theme around salary. The analysis of whether this salary is the answer to all these issues makes us different. The cabinet believes that salary, yes, is important and that there is also a lot of extra money going and going. This means that, strictly speaking, there will again be a great deal of room next year for additional collective wage increases, which have, of course, already been agreed. In addition, we also need to work on these other two points, i.e. enjoyment in work and staff shortages. Soon Tamara van Ark, the Minister of Medical Care, will discuss this further. Questions have been asked about this, such as how to ensure that we further reduce staff shortages. But in a weighting that can't be different in such a crisis in which the cabinet has to make choices in all the scarcity that is now there............................................................................................................................................................................................ In our view, this is not fair in the consideration of all kinds of other sectors and all kinds of other priorities that we feel Chamber-wide and government-wide at a time when the pot of money available ultimately has its limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u180	Scheduled care, operations and treatments are currently being called off quite massively. There are departments in hospitals empty. Caregivers are threatening to lower their hoofs because the workload is too high and there are too few colleagues. I really do not understand why the Prime Minister is talking about different priorities from which to choose. There were already major staff shortages in the care sector. The workload was already high. The lack of colleagues was already there. Now we see in the corona crisis that all that comes under a magnifying glass, don't we? We now see how much that hurts, first and foremost with the caregivers, but ultimately with the whole of the Netherlands that needs care, now or in the future. That's what we're all dealing with. I don't understand this. I really want to know what's going on with the Prime Minister. The motion is very clear: an extra substantial salary increase. In fact, the Prime Minister is now saying: we are not going to do that, because in a mix of priorities we believe that we are already doing enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u181	Yeah, that's right. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that staff shortages in care are a serious problem. It is making the analysis, and we are making it otherwise, that the further increase in salaries in the care sector is also a direct response to staff shortages. It will certainly help, I agree with her, but much more needs to be done to address the problem of staff shortages than a salary. That is a very special subject, and I think the debate will continue on it in a moment. I also agree with everyone who says that this is important. The cabinet also takes action with these 130 million structuralally from 2023 to ensure that the pleasure in working in care increases and people also feel ownership of their own function. I remember the conversation that Van Ark and I had with nurses from the hospital environment in The Hague. They said, "This is very important to us. Yeah, also the salary, but also this point. How can we make sure that we don't only get in in the morning, hear where we are going, but that we have a grip on our own business?" And yes, salaries are also important. I couldn't agree more. But we are also doing a great deal about that. Over this entire cabinet period, 6 billion more went to the healthcare pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u182	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u183	These are fantastic warm words from the Prime Minister, but caregivers are not helping at all at the moment. Of course, he will find me by his side when it comes to increasing the control of caregivers or tackling bureaucracy. All true. Do it! That's pretty much what we're proposing here every week. Fine. But what is the picture of caregivers that we have left to this debate, even today, after the runaway incident we saw last summer? There was joy now. The motion was passed. There would be a structural salary increase. But this is another blow to the face. Again, this cabinet says: we're not going to do it. It makes me a little despondent, to be honest. We haven't talked about this so much for nothing. There is a majority in the Lower House and there is a majority in the Upper House. What else does Prime Minister Rutte want to do to ensure that those caregivers get their fair reward? But this cabinet says, yes, but we're just not gonna do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u184	We believe with Mrs Marijnissen that it is important that this fair reward is there. There is. Also next year there will be a lot of extra money going to the payroom in the care sector. This is also important, in addition to working on staff shortages and job satisfaction. At the same time, I would like to draw Mrs Marijnissen and others' attention to the fact that, in a crisis, the pot of money available is limited. In addition, there are other sectors, such as the police, the army, the teachers and all kinds of other sectors, where there are major issues of staff shortages, about the pleasure in the work and around pay. Even in normal times, a cabinet must try to find a balance. That is even worse now if you know how much public finances are logically addressed in this pandemic and what huge effects that has on so many people with jobs and so many companies where people work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u185	This is gradually becoming a debate about the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet, much more so than it is about the content that lies here too. Because the Prime Minister always goes to the argument he has given. A motion is the conclusion of a debate, but it seems as if Mr Rutte thinks: that is the beginning of the whole discussion. The whole argument in the letter has been given in all kinds of debates. A majority of the House does not agree with that now, so basically says: you have to change the letter as it is. That's what happened here. Then we get a letter back stating: I am carrying out the motion in the following way. Then you do not take this Chamber seriously at all. You have the right to say: I am making a different assessment; I simply do not agree with it and I put the motion next to me. That would be fair, but you don't. You're going around it, and that's bad for all those people in care. You put the motion next to you, a motion by a majority in the Chamber that wants extra money to go to care, on top of the policy of the cabinet. You don't; be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u186	It is governed by state law in the movement between the Cabinet and the Chamber so that the text of the motion is relevant and we believe that the text of the motion is to be implemented. Mr Wilders and others are right in saying that the interpretation of the proposers is also highly relevant and, to some extent, leading. That's also why Van Ark and I eventually avoided those motions. We said: we are strictly in agreement with the text, but we do not agree with the extension of the interpretation, and that is why we ultimately advise against that motion. That's state law point one. The constitutional point number two is: a ruling by the Chamber, no matter how important it is, does not mean that the government must do so automatically. That's not how it works. It is a view of the Chamber on how the government should implement policy. Next, the government must relate to that motion. It must develop an understanding of it. Motions are, of course, carried out very often. Then there is already a positive advice, both in terms of text and in terms of interpretation. But this is, of course, much more sensitive because the cabinet thinks it has arguments, namely that we are already doing a great deal about this increase in salaries and that there are other issues in the care that also require our attention and that also cost money, plus, of course, all the other public sectors and the huge support packages that are now needed to support the economy in this major crisis. Making choices in scarcity ultimately forces us to send this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u187	A majority of the House does not agree with this explanation. That is why the motion was adopted. A motion has been passed. A majority of the House doesn't agree with that. He wants that on top of everything the cabinet does... I'm not saying the Cabinet doesn't do anything, but on top of that, something extra has to happen. That ruling of the Chamber dismisses the Prime Minister. Wherever my problem is, here's what I'm gonna do. A cabinet can do that. That wouldn't be the first time. There's been a VVD minister in VK who said, "Well, we're not gonna do that." It's possible, but say so. Where my problem is, the cabinet is trying to make nice decorations. It says: we're doing it; look at what we're doing! No, we're asking for more. If you are honest, you say: we are not carrying out the motion; ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u188	We do not interpret the authors; that is correct. The motion plus interpretation is not carried out, but the motion itself, the text, is. I'm sure of it. I think we're doing it. But you, Mr Klaver and also Mr Wilders, are right that the interpretation of the proposers is, of course, very important in order to make a final assessment of the motion. That is why we have advised negatively, so Mr Klaver and I agree. If that motion is adopted, after we have given negative advice on the text plus interpretation, it is ultimately up to the Cabinet to pass a ruling on this matter to the Chamber. That is what we have done, in the absolute conviction that it is not wise, in the weighting of all the interests that are currently at stake, financially and socially, not only to carry out the motion itself, we are already doing so, but also to interpret it once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u189	Finally, Mr President. Actually, I'd like to make one final appeal to the Prime Minister. I think it is really in the greatest interest, especially in this crisis, especially when you see how united the opposition is on this and when you see that by now members of the coalition have also voted, whether it was wrong or not, that we are doing something on top of all the policies that are already happening. If you put that next to you and say "we have to make choices in scarcity"... We all have to be together. We do that all the time. Every politician does that. It's just that we're making a different weighting here. That's ignored every time the voices strike. Now there is a majority and it is still ignored. That is not good for the relationship between this cabinet and the Chamber. The cabinet still needs this Chamber, and also the opposition, very much in the fight against the crisis. If you deal with motions that have been passed, I think that is an insult, to be honest, first of all to the people in the care, but also to the Chamber. It puts pressure on the relations between the cabinet and the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u190	I realise that, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the actions contained in the letter and the further implementation of what is contained in that letter, we have also asked the ESC to carry out an exploration to look at all the specific bottlenecks and opportunities. Then you talk about influx, retention, job fun, but also appreciation in the broadest sense of the word, including working conditions. We have said that when that ESC opinion is back, we are very willing to look at whether more needs to be done in terms of working conditions on the basis of this ESC opinion. I could also say to Mr Klaver: if we do not agree on this, not so much on the motion but on the motion plus the interpretation, is it not possible to wait for that ESC opinion for a moment and, in the light of that ESC opinion, knowing that next year there will be an extra billion for healthcare salaries, then to see what else is needed? Then Mr Klaver does not want to, because he wants to now, and I do not want to, because quite honestly I would like to say, also given all the other interests that are involved: don't do this, extra on top of that billion. But I think that it could also be a compromise between opposition and coalition that we wait for the SER opinion and make it difficult to do so when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u191	I think this point has really been discussed, no matter how difficult it is. So, really, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u192	Of course, I caused that a little bit by asking a question. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u193	Yeah, that's right. That is why Mr Klaver has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're talking about getting together. I have made a proposal to this effect before, in the Political Reviews. I said, "Don't let the Economic and Social Committee go to work; sit down with the social partners in a tripartite dialogue, so with the employers and the workers in the care and the ministry, and make an agreement with each other to see how much money is actually needed to solve the problems." I suggested it myself. That has been woven away: "we're not going to do that; it's going to be on a committee." My confidence is not that I do not want a committee to work now. The people in care have to do this themselves, with the Ministry involved. And the conclusion of that opinion should not be that we are going to talk about it again; then there must be money on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u195	Yeah, but then we'll be very close together, because the SER is doing that reconnaissance. I think that is very close to what Mr Klaver is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u196	I agree with Mr Wilders, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. I would like to put the finger on a point that Mr Wilders rightly pointed out, because I think it is important in the declaration of citizens' trust in politics. The cabinet says a opposition or perhaps a coalition party hears it and says: okay, okay, I understand, but we want b. Then the Chamber votes for option b, and then the cabinet says "we carry out the motion" when nothing has changed. That's what people at home are gonna say: in The Hague, they're gonna talk shit. And if the Prime Minister should have learned one thing in this whole corona crisis, then it is very important that people can follow what we say and do here and trust b. Don't play those games with the Room. The Chamber stands here on behalf of the people, and the people urgently need leaders they can trust. So don't play those games with us, not with Mr. Wilders and no one here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u197	Leadership is also ultimately the Chamber, myself and all of us, telling us that I do not think it is wise to commit, where wage increases are already possible, fortunately next year, to additional wage increases now, while we know that these kinds of issues are in many sectors and that public finances are now being called upon to a great extent as a result of the crisis. As much as I want everyone to know, I don't think it's wise to do anything else on top of what's going on next year. That's leadership, too, to discuss that honestly with each other. I really think that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u198	It's a little politically-technical, but I'm putting my finger on this point. There's a motion for a change of cabinet policy. Then we've already heard the cabinet. Then we have already heard that the Prime Minister thinks it is unwise and wants to do it differently. Then the Chamber says: okay, we heard it and we understand it, but we still want this proposal. And then when you pretend to do that, when it's demonstrably out of the question, people don't get it anymore. Then people conclude: the Prime Minister can just say something, and that doesn't even have to be true. And that seems to me to be devastating in this crisis and for all the other problems we have to solve in the country. In addition to the rest of the points on which I have joined Mr Wilders, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver, I would like to make a very specific appeal to the Prime Minister here: do not do that, because that is not good for confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u199	I have already said that I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that, where I maintain that we are implementing the motion, the interpretation is of great importance and even cardinal, and that we are therefore not carrying out the motion plus interpretation on that motion. That's one. We have advised negatively on this, and we insist in that view, because we believe that much is already happening, and because of the importance of other sectors, etc. So I agree with her that we should be open and honest about that. I believe we are, too. We are open about the motion itself, but we are also open about the fact that the motion plus interpretation for the cabinet goes one step too far. It then works in such a way that, if a Chamber does adopt the motion, it is very relevant and the cabinet has to relate to it. We did, and that led to the letter we sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u200	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two points. As I said, I would like to go into last night, the press conference, and then a section called varia. What was going on last night? We have taken additional measures on October 13th that have taken effect on October 14th at 10 p.m. because there was reasonable doubt as to whether the package of September 28th... At that time we could not yet determine with certainty whether that package did what we expected, but there was too much counter-indication that that was not the case. From the precautionary principle, we said on 13 October that we are taking additional measures. That's the partial lockdown. It's going a long way. We were one of the first countries in Europe. You can now see many other countries taking similar measures, such as Germany. That's not entirely certain. I do not yet have the last picture of this, but you can see at the moment in many countries in Europe that far-reaching measures are being taken. We did this on the basis of the precautionary principle on 13 October. Then we said, after two weeks, we're going to see what's going on. The situation is that once again, as with the package of 28 September, we cannot determine exactly whether this package is doing what it is supposed to do. We really need more days for that. But there's no contra-indication that it wouldn't. Now there are two matters on the agenda. The next few days will have to show whether the package will have sufficient effect. Hugo de Jonge spoke yesterday about the expected R. He didn't say "this is the R." It is the expected R, i.e. not the R of 0,88 but the expected R of 0,88. Over the next few days, we'll have to see if that R has actually dropped well below 1. That is always with delay, and that is not enough to establish at the moment. There's no counter-indication. Two questions are now on the agenda. The first is that if the next few days prove that this is not enough, we will have to take additional measures anyway. Then you know that additional measures have an impact on the economy, affect people's personal loneliness and have a major impact on society. You'll have to take it. Then you have to do everything you can to counter these social effects as well as possible. If we were to have what we sincerely hope for but not know for sure, because it is an expected R and not yet a determined R, that it will happen in the next few days, a second question is raised, namely whether it makes sense to take measures to speed up the rate of reduction in the number of infections. And we would like to answer that question in a press release on Tuesday. We must then make a very specific assessment of the acceleration and its effects and benefits, and the consequences, social, economic and so on. Then that consideration is a much more direct consideration. So if the decline isn't there, then you'll have to take action in the very short term, maybe even before Tuesday. If it is true that this deflection does show itself and you are faced with the problem of accelerating the extinction, then the question arises as to how it relates to the economic and social effects. That's what we're talking about right now. We also said yesterday that if you look at where you want to go in the roadmap that we discussed here a few weeks ago on the basis of the Jetten motion and which was sent to the Chamber, we want to return to the signal value of 10 ic recordings per day. But in the end, you want to go back to 3 ic-recordings a day with the 40 hospitalizations a day that go with it. Actually, that's 1,200 infections a day, 50 per 100,000 a week, 7 per 100,000 a day. That's what you end up going back to make sure you're back in control: 1,200 infections a day. Now it's not like you can't do anything until you're exactly on those 1,200 infections a day. Luckily, it's not that bad. But you have to have eyes on it. At the moment we have to conclude that the probability is very likely that if the package does work, you will not be anywhere near these values four weeks after 13 October. That's really what you can see carefully through your eye hairs right now. Have we already decided that the package will be extended beyond mid-November? We haven't decided yet. But we have always said to the Chamber and also in our press conferences against the Netherlands: if we start to realize at some point that there will be an insight into what is needed after this, and we are beginning to get that view now, then you must also share it with the Netherlands. The decision has yet to be made and we are all going to do so next week. I know that this is a difficult communication, because it means that there is a chance that the package will not last until mid-November, but perhaps three or four weeks longer to get anywhere near the value we want to go to. That's why I said that last night. It is not yet a decision, but it is the forward guidance as we always do. If we know that, I think we should tell them. That's just an introduction. Against this background, I would like to answer a few specific questions, because I think that I will be able to include many of the questions from the Chamber. I think I have answered the question of 0.88. Is that a certain 0.88 or an expected? Again, that's the expected 0.88. Then there's a question from the CDA about that established R-value. I saw the interview with Jacco Wallinga this morning, I believe on the NOS site or in the General Daily Newspaper. He meant the following: the calculated R-value always runs back two weeks in time. What he sees in his models is that the R-value on October 14th, which was exactly two weeks ago, was just above 1.0. That is another drop compared to the value of 1.16 communicated yesterday, but it is from two weeks ago from 9 October. Those are also carefully positive signs that we are moving in the right direction, but again, that is really surrounded by great uncertainties. The package of 13 October was modelled to eventually reach an R-value that is a bit below 1.0. Finally, there were many other questions asked, but before there were any interruptions, there was this question of what the strategy was. That strategy is always aimed at a few objectives, namely that health care can handle it and that you try as much as possible to reduce the damage there. You can see at this moment that this is going to be very difficult and that the care is in the process of scaling down scheduled operations. The pressure there is enormous. Why did we make the package of October 13th? Because we said: we must now intervene to ensure, under the precautionary principle, that the damage there is not out of control. The second thing you want is to protect people with vulnerable health and elderly. You do that by checking to the maximum. Maximum checking also means that you want to keep an eye on and have insight into the virus. That is why it is very important that we can test and do the source and contact research. Especially source and contact research of 9,000, 10,000 infections a day is actually not possible. So we are not sending out hospitalizations, we are not sending out Mrs Dik-Faber early, but we are steering towards the objectives. The objective is that care can be taken and the objective is that we protect older people and people with poor health as best as possible. Perhaps one last question from Mr Veldman on what the next moment of reflection is. Yesterday, of course, it was important to see whether you should do things from the precautionary principle or from contraindications. The answer is no. Then perhaps you would do unnecessary damage to the economy and to other social effects such as loneliness and so on. We're following that very closely. I'll get back to you on that one. There are two big questions. Is the bow actually there? That must prove to be the case in the next few days. If these figures were to go in the wrong direction, the OMT will also have assured us that they will give us additional advice as soon as necessary tomorrow in order to intervene quickly in the short term. If that is not the case and the contraindications are indeed confirmed in their positivity in the image that will persist in the coming days, then the second question will be raised and we would like to respond to that in a press conference on Tuesday. Can we speed up the drop? Can you eventually speed up the extinguishing? Mr. Chairman. That is actually yesterday evening's text in a nutshell, where the conclusion is: not now additional measures. The two questions are very clear ahead and the first will have to be answered in the next few days. Then, if it goes well, we will answer the second by Tuesday at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u202	Then I have Mr Asscher, Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Klaver, Mrs Van Brenn, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Azarkan. I shall go first to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u203	The Prime Minister says, "I have two goals. Protecting the vulnerable and preventing the care from overloading." There are over 500 outbreaks in nursing homes, countless people are sick, seriously ill, and ambulances drive around with seriously ill people who have no place. The pattern we see is one of always too late and too little intervention. We saw that in the summer, in September when the last round in the pub was cancelled, and at the end of September. Now the Prime Minister says: yesterday we found out that the measures we have taken are not ready in four weeks. He knew that. He knew that on October 13th. By aiming at 0.9 instead of 0.8 contrary to the OMT's advice, it was mathematically unthinkable that the measures could be suspended after four weeks. He knew that. His cabinet knew that when it held a press conference yesterday saying: we are going to help the catering industry and we are going to help the culture. He already knew then what would be said in the press at night, namely that it would take longer. That's not fair communication. That's not taking people into what's going on. My question is what more the Prime Minister needs to do now to weigh up the need to deploy and accelerate the decline, and to ensure that as few people as possible are ill. There are ambulances driving around with seriously ill people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u204	I have spent many hours in the European Council on this matter over the last week. Unfortunately, the number of infections is rapidly increasing throughout Europe. The Netherlands was first in line. Meanwhile, in Belgium and the Czech Republic, the situation is very serious, as in France and Spain. We also see a doubling of the number of infections every week in Germany. All the major European countries are currently dealing with this major issue. In the previous debate, we have already discussed the lessons to be learned from August and September. At that time I argued, and I insist, that it was not too late, but it was a package of mid-September which was not heavy enough. We had that discussion last time. That is why it was necessary to take further action at the end of September. That wasn't the last round. That was the measure whereby the cafés and restaurants would close at 10 p.m. When we had insufficient certainty that this effect would have, we immediately took the extra hammer and said: we are going to a partial lockdown. You can now see throughout Europe that this pattern is repeated, from Germany, France, Spain to Italy, Austria and Ireland, and certainly Belgium and the Czech Republic, which are the most affected at the moment. That's a pattern. The admission is absolutely that the package of half or early September should have been heavier in six and eight regions. We have now learned that lesson and it is regulated in the Roadmap. I do not think what Mr Asscher is asking for is sensible. We now have the package of October 13. There's no indication that that doesn't deliver enough. There really isn't. If it is there in the next few days, we will immediately take additional measures. He says, "You have to do that now." I say to him: if the package does not deliver enough, we will take these measures. If the package delivers enough, taking additional measures now will not be the same as it is going to be. If we saw that the peak is much higher and that the package is not doing enough, we would take these additional measures. I guarantee you, everything is ready for that. If the next few days show that the package does do what it has to do, all indications so far are very careful that that is the assumption at the moment, but we just don't know that for sure. And you'd be doing extra things now, I don't think that in the weighting of economic and social effects is wise. So I say to him: if necessary, we do it immediately. Doing it now, without there being any hard figures on the basis of which it is necessary, and while that does not reduce the peak, I do not think it is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u205	I believe that it is best for health and the economy to get the figures back under control as soon as possible and to get them below the limit as soon as possible, so that people can return freedom as soon as possible and have a perspective for entrepreneurs. It seems as if the cabinet is trying to do it as slowly as possible, precisely at the point of 0.9. The PM says he doesn't have proof that it's not working enough. The question I'm asking is another one. Isn't it much better for health and for the people in care to outline a fair perspective and to intervene faster, fast and hard, to prevent people from getting sick? He heard Kuipers. He heard the hospital directors. He's heard the people from the practice. They beg to do more. Not because the peak will decrease in two weeks, but because you either prevent it from getting even worse in the care or it will go back to normal faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u206	Yeah, then we agree, just not on the timing. He says, "Do it now." I do not think that is wise, but we agree on the objective. Then, on top of what we are doing now, would you be doing a very heavy partial lockdown, one of the toughest in Europe at the time when we announced it, which is now being followed by many countries? That question comes up immediately. That could be the case in the next few days, if it turns out that the number of infections and other indicators are going in the wrong direction. That's what I promised him. Mr Asscher is also right to say that there is another issue, namely: can we speed it up with measures? I would point out, however, that, according to all the experts, there are no countries in Europe that have ever been below 0.7, for example, so you are talking about a very small margin of 0.7, 0.8 or 0.9. From mid-March onwards, all European countries have moved in terms of the effectiveness of the packages. I have been told by RIVM experts that there are actually no examples of countries that have been able to get the extinguishment rate below 0.7 for a long time. The question that arises then, you are right, is whether by taking additional measures you can speed up the extinction. I would like to add that you have to make a very careful assessment. All these models are being made right now. This will take a few days, but that is not a disaster, because the next few days must show whether the package is working. If that is not the case, we will take additional measures. Next comes the demand of accelerating the brake road. Would you do that without knowing exactly what the effects are, socially and economically? You really have to weigh that up, other than if this package didn't do enough. Then it is possible to consider how to reduce the damage. That is the issue after the weekend, when we have modulated all these figures very precisely. That is a diabolical dilemma, I must say to Mr Asscher, because the damage caused by speeding up the brake is enormous. I am thinking of unification, social, students and companies. You can't solve that with just support packages. So that's really a diabolical dilemma. We have to relate to that, Mr Asscher is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u207	I think it's a mistake to pretend that between 1, which apparently was measured by RIVM on October 14th, and 0.7 is a small difference. That's a huge difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u208	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u209	But the Prime Minister suggested that just in his answer, saying: you're not going to be much lower. But that makes a huge difference. That saves weeks and months in how fast you are at the level where fewer people get sick, fewer people die, fewer people need to go to the hospital and so you are also at the level where the economy can be opened up faster and people trust again. Economists show that it is not so much the action of the government, but that it is the virus itself, the fear of it and the uncertainty about it, which causes economic damage. The concern is that the choice made by the cabinet today, not only today, but since the summer, maintains that uncertainty and that fear. The quacking, hoping that it is now enough, creates permanent uncertainty and enormous damage, both mentally, economically and in terms of health. So the question is not: is it much or is it little? No, you need to get the situation under control as soon as possible, so that people don't get sick and you can reopen society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u210	One more time, though. The Netherlands has been the first in Europe to have such a far-reaching package. I really agree with Mr Asscher when he says that we should have used regional measures more heavily. We have learned this lesson, which is addressed in the Roadmap. This is also learning with each other how to handle the virus. That's true. The measures taken at the time for the catering industry, the 12-hour measure and a number of other things have had insufficient effect. That's addressed. That class is over. The package currently under way is one of the toughest packages in Europe and we were almost the first in Europe to do so. That was also necessary, because here the infections quickly came up. We were number one in Europe at some point. At the moment we are back in the middle again, but we have been number one for a while; it looked so serious. If the package works, we hope to see it in the next few days, but that is really hope, because you are not sure about it and the contraindications are positive, then the question that Mr Asscher is right to ask is whether you can speed it up. That's really less easy than he's suggesting here. We have been discussing this with all the experts for days. Why is that so complex? Because first of all, what additional measures are we going to take? I do not want to speculate on that now, but they are quite far-reaching. And what would be the effect if you did that for two weeks or six weeks? If you're looking at all these models, you've got something to gain from the speed with which that numbness takes place. That's one. The second is that I did not say that we should send on one. I noticed that Wallinga says, if you look at the numbers now, you see, if you calculate back two weeks, that on October 14th, the R-value is just over 1. That is retroactive and that is a bit better than 1.16, based on the figures of 9 October that RIVM released yesterday. You can see that, fortunately, the package at the end of September is having an effect. That is why we want to give this package a chance in the coming days. Already deciding to do more, we hope there is no need to take the turn, but it may be necessary because of the brake road. Again, that has enormous effects. So you can look at the extent to which the numbness accelerates. Unfortunately, all the figures show that this is not dramatic. It does have some effect, but it is not that with a very large extra package it suddenly goes much faster. You have to go through such an extra package for a lot of weeks, but that has huge social consequences. I'm not saying we don't, but those choices we'll show you all after the weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u211	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u212	It takes a very long time because we are at a very high level of contamination. That's the truth we're facing right now. We can't turn back time, but we can learn from other countries. A number of other countries are cited. There are countries that test their approach and there are countries that, as far as I am concerned, have a better package for schools. I believe that time should not be wasted waiting, but should be used to make it safer in schools, to make meetings that are still there safer, and to ensure, for example, that you operate better at the point where we now see things going wrong in care, in nursing homes. We can't waste that time. There's been a waste of time. Waiting means the bumps are increasing. The cabinet should learn that you must never let it go as far as has happened now, and it should not point to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u213	Mr Asscher has a good point to make here. For example: how do you ensure good enforcement? May I give an example of what we are doing about it? This is not an additional measure, but it is about making an existing measure work better, for example in the case of meetings. Grapperhaus and Wiebes, the two Ministers for Justice and Economic Affairs and Climate have made agreements in the so-called Compliance Framework and Enforcement Responsible Shopping in recent days. The agreements with the sector go a long way, on walking routes and hygiene, but they also place great responsibility on consumers. This is an example of what has worked terribly hard over the last few days, which is not a tightening-up of the measures, but an effective demonstration of what we are doing. So he has a point and that is being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u214	On the other hand, how long will the measures take? The Prime Minister has explained that they are expected to last longer, but it has not yet been decided how long they will last. I think that is an adequate defence for a dissertation, but when it comes to clear public communication, I find it less successful. In the letter I read 'that we now know for sure that the current measures are clearly needed longer than four weeks'. So you're saying we know it's longer, but we don't know exactly how long. Can it not be made more clear in public communication how long measures will last?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u215	No, you can't. Why is that? Because that depends entirely on whether what is calculated with the models comes true. Those models aren't naive, but they assume that not everyone adheres to everything. So they take non-compliance into account. You must first see in the next few days whether the reproduction number under 1 actually succeeds, towards the intended and expected 0.88. If so, you need to remodel the effects of the September package. They seem a little bigger than we feared a few weeks ago, but not enough to, fortunately then, take the extra measures of the partial lockdown as a precaution. That gives you at some point the information that shows how fast it is. It's likely to be longer than four weeks, but how much longer is the question. Question two is, what are you sending? Eventually, you really have to figure out those 1,200 infections a day, is 50 per 100,000 a week, is 7 a day. That's three ICU shots a day. But you don't have to sit on that all the way before you can relax. At some point, for example, you are at a signal value of 10 ic-recordings per day. Speaking of the roadmap, you actually want to go all the way back to the first course, but if you are moving through the second course towards the first course, then you can of course start thinking about what possibilities there are. We can't give that precision right now. We thought it was important, and I really do, to share with the Netherlands that these four weeks are not real, that it is going to be longer and that it is going to start in December, although we cannot say for sure because we are not even 100% sure whether additional measures are needed, apart from speeding up the braking process. That's why we did it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u216	For me, a clear text would be for a lot of Dutch people: because of what we now know, take serious account of the fact that we will have to decide on an extension later. But now it is said that we know for sure that we need to extend, but that we do not yet know for how long. In this way, there is a kind of vagueness in the measures that I did not notice earlier. Then it was said: this is true for a number of weeks, then there will be a weighting moment and then you will hear how much longer. Now, to be honest, I thought it might be a little clearer than it is now. I've heard that from several quarters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u217	I take that feedback to heart. The tricky thing is that we could not say how many weeks longer the measures will apply. We cannot say that at the moment either. The first thing that has to happen is that it all works. If that's the case, then it's really gonna be longer than November. Then you go into December, but for precision you really need more days. We agreed to report this yesterday. Mr Van der Staaij has an even smarter wording. I'm gonna chew on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u218	Then I have Mrs Marijnissen first, then Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u219	The Prime Minister is going to chew on it, but yesterday there was just a very hard message for a lot of people. Take the catering entrepreneurs who overheard that it's gonna take a little longer. The decision has not yet been taken, but we already know that it is, I have heard the Prime Minister say. I'm still grinding what's the difference. In my opinion, catering entrepreneurs and many other Dutch people only hear one thing very clearly: this is just going to take a lot longer and we don't know exactly how long. That's just a shitty message. That's a hell of a message. To be honest, I didn't think it was really appropriate to say that between the nose and the lips in a press conference that wasn't supposed to be called that. My question is another one. It's about the economy. If I have listened to the Prime Minister correctly, he says: what prevents us from taking more firm measures is the impact on society, on the state of mind of people, but also on the economy. How does he look at the growing group of economists, including the IMF, who argue exactly the opposite? They say: for the economy, it might be better to intervene hard and firmly, after which the economy will be able to open up faster than this route, which we now hear will take weeks and weeks and will hit the economy hard anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u220	There's a problem here. First of all, if what we did at the end of September and October 13, the partial lockdown of October 13, does not have sufficient effect on the reversal of the figures, then we must take additional measures regardless of the economy and the social consequences. There's no discussion about that. Then we'll go back and see how we limit the damage as much as possible, but then we'll have to. That's the virus. What we're talking about here is, if it does work, can you speed up the extinguishing? The dilemma we are facing is that next week we will continue to outline it to the Netherlands, also on the basis of the latest insights that we have. It's not like it's rapido all of a sudden and you can win a lot of weeks. Letting those days win and maybe a few weeks will have a huge effect on jobs, on loneliness, social, how students experience their study time etc. et cetera et cetera. I just want to say that it is not an easy choice. I don't mean that's what Mrs. Marijnissen thinks here. No one thinks that. I do know that, but that is the balance that we stand for in the coming days. To be honest, I hope that we have the luxury of standing in front of that balance, because that means that the package we have now actually leads to the reversal we want and we can talk about whether or not to speed up that brake road. First, we'll have to see if the package works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u221	I understand very well that this is a diabolical dilemma. I understand very well that these are not easy choices, but I think that the fear of a lot of people is that this might last all winter. Minister De Jonge spoke yesterday at the press conference also about the new year. Let's face it, that fell too. Then this situation may take weeks or months. That will certainly be disastrous for the economy. That will certainly be disastrous for jobs, and that will certainly be disastrous for the well-being of many people. And then we don't even talk about care. We heard Ernst Kuipers this morning. The concern is very great. I understand very well that the dilemma is very complicated, but my question to the Prime Minister is: is the course we are heading not very risky?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u222	Let's talk about care first. RIVM has calculated that if the package works, we hope to see that in the next few days, taking additional measures will unfortunately have no effect on the expected peak in hospitals and on their timing at the beginning of November. That's one. So that's about the effect on hospitals when the package works. Then you see if you can speed up to a situation where you can relax something. We will all show that next week, but I will tell Mrs Marijnissen that you really need to take a very firm action. Really, really firm. That won't take a few weeks, but probably much longer. This has far-reaching social consequences. That is the balance to be struck. Do you want to speed up the braking path with huge social effects? That really is a diabolical dilemma. That is what we have the few days for, until next Tuesday, because it is not a big problem if you do not do it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. There will be a big problem if we do not take the turn in the next few days, because then you will have a problem in hospitals and in other areas. Then you need to accelerate additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u223	Finally, a short question. I hear the Prime Minister say: if necessary in the eyes of the cabinet, it is already fully prepared and ready. Can he tell us exactly what is being prepared and what is being prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u224	I'm not gonna do that. I just want to outline something global. If you really want to speed up the brake road... Oh, you really come up with measures that go very far. They probably go beyond the measures taken in March. If it is true that in the next few days there will be no reversal, then you must also take serious measures. They are more in line with what we did in March than they go further than we did in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u225	Mrs Dik-Faber and then Mrs Van Brenk, then Mr Van Weyenberg and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u226	This morning we heard from Mr Ernst Kuipers that we sail sharply and that we ask a lot of questions from our people in the care. That scared me, too. I think the rack's kind of out, so I really hope the ceiling's in sight. The Prime Minister said: "I don't really want to focus on a lower R, because that doesn't help the care very much, while the measures that need to be taken then have a major impact. That's a dilemma." I understand he's saying that, but on the other hand, I feel like a false contradiction is being created here. Now people have no perspective. They don't know how long this is gonna take. It could take weeks or maybe months, until the new year. While, if we start a sharper decline now, it may cost us extra bets in the next few weeks, but then we can have Christmas dinner with our loved ones. Why then is it that we are not being given a very intensive blow, rather than opting for this model where we are taking much more limited measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u227	The partial lockdown we have now is very intense. We're really using a huge hammer right now. This also means that additional measures have a limited effect. If it turns out later this week that the turn is not being taken, then it is necessary to do more from the March package. Mrs Dik-Faber says... let me first repeat what I just said, so that there is no misunderstanding. If the package works, then according to the RIVM taking additional measures has no effect on that peak and on the timing of that peak. At the beginning of November there will be a peak in the hospitals. Mrs Dik-Faber rightly said that it could have an effect on the month of December, but that is the balance that we have to make. Unfortunately, it is true that the extension of the current partial lockdown to, for example, the entire March package... Make no mistake, in March the schools were completely closed. That was not so much necessary because we were concerned about those schools, but of course it had an effect on the number of movements. A lot of parents had to stay home, because their children were at home, especially the parents with children in primary schools. In March and April, for example, the hairdressers were closed. RIVM says that the effect of closing contact professions is very limited. We shall be discussing this in a moment on the issue of prostitution. Mrs Dik-Faber drew attention to this. So it means that the possibilities to add to what we're doing now are limited. If you want to speed up the brake road, you'll come up with a lot more draconian measures. That's not for one or two weeks, but probably for a long time. That's a trade-off we have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u228	I think I and a lot of people want to be taken by hand with me when it comes to the considerations this cabinet makes. I think it is extremely important that these considerations are transparent. People are now faced with a package of measures, where it is unclear how long they will last and what the perspective is for people. The Prime Minister always explains that there is a dilemma in terms of social and economic consequences. I didn't hear him answer my question at that point. Perhaps the social and economic consequences would be more limited if we were to intervene shorter, more intensely than if we were to spread the measures we now have over a longer period of time. I think there is a need, at least with me and many with me, to have these scenarios intelligible. Otherwise we will never get an answer to the question of what is causing the greatest economic and social damage. The Prime Minister says: let's keep it that way, at least for now, because that will cause the least damage. But I hear others say, which I can imagine very well: let's choose that short blow, because in the end that might be more advantageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u229	To begin with, the tragedy is: a short blow is not in the toolbox. A slap is really longer than short, unfortunately. That's one. Two: you cannot give guidance at the moment, you cannot give access to it, because first you need to know if the package of 13 October actually does what it should do first, and that is that redirection. It's really crucial right now. If that doesn't happen, you're gonna have to take extra measures quickly, anyway, regardless of speeding up a brake road. What we're talking about right now, Mrs. Dik-Faber and I, is this. If the package does work, as we all hope, and there are no contraindications to the negative, then you come to the question: can you speed up that braking path? I would just like to say that the instruments you have for that are very intense when the duration is really longer than a short blow. Then Mrs Dik-Faber says she wants to have access to it. But you can't do that in reality until after the weekend. Then you also know what this package does or doesn't do, so you also know what such a blow does. So we're gonna do all that in detail, won't we, Hugo? Report on Tuesday to the press conference and in the letter to the Chamber. That's what we're really gonna describe. We will also explain exactly why we make the choice we make. I hope we are faced with this question, because when the time comes, the current package has taken the turn. That's really priority one for the next few days. Then you come to the question: can you speed up that braking path, and what are the social costs? I just want to take away the illusion that there's an instrument that you apply for a few weeks, and then you're there. Unfortunately, that instrument does not seem to exist at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u230	Finally. If you list a number of figures from the past period, you come to the conclusion that the R-number has actually been structurally underestimated by the RIVM. Does the cabinet also want to take this with us in the calculation and in the presentation of the models next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u231	Yes. That is not my perception, by the way, because I think RIVM has so far modelled very precisely what is going to happen in hospitals. In the end, of course, this is a very important effect. Anyway, I'll look into that. I don't know, but we'll definitely look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u232	Okay. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u233	I would like to hear the Prime Minister's figures. We can now see that there are 8.123 infections today, but it is said that ICT is failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u234	That's for the U.S. Secretary of State. He just dived all the way into it at break. I don't have the latest on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u235	Okay. I would like to have a statement from the Prime Minister on how he looks at the message that healthcare workers are being put under pressure to come to work when they are ill. I really think that should be a political statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u236	I have that question in my stack of Tamara.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u237	Tamara is the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u238	But I've mixed up the pile of Tamara because of the questions about... So I need to... What's taking so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u239	I mean, this is supposed to come out of the loose wrist, right? That kind of pronunciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u240	Hohoho, Mrs. Van Brenn and the loose wrist, we're not doing that here. I had already looked at the answer during the pause in case that question was asked. Let's talk about the norm. The standard is perfectly clear, namely that employees who have been tested positively should not work or be forced to work. Healthcare professionals should always be able to do their job in safe conditions and should not themselves pose a risk of contamination to others. Therefore, it is important that health care workers who have been tested positively cease their work and stay home. That's the main rule. For staff who are in quarantine, for example in anticipation of a test result or with a roommate with complaints, the following applies. If staying at home leads to critical situations surrounding patient care, it may be considered in consultation to leave the employee to work, under strict conditions. Then he should not have any complaints and should always wear a surgical nose mask, at least type II. If there are any questions about this policy, it is always possible to contact the company doctor or possibly the GGD. So only under these very strict circumstances, precisely protocoled, can an emergency escape be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u241	We hear that in the care of people with complaints are forced to come to work, while there are vulnerable people who they have to take care of. They run the risk of infecting them. Should we not say that we are going to tackle their employers, that we are going to enforce them and that those employers may be fined? This isn't supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u242	Then, of course, a report can be made to the Health and Youth Inspectorate and to the SZW Inspection, as regards unsafe work situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u244	Then I go to Mr Van Weyenberg and then to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u245	We're going a little up-and-down because we have to do it in cubes, but I still want to go back to what happened last night for a lot of entrepreneurs. I will not be the only one with a very full inbox with messages from SME-Netherlands to a lot of individual entrepreneurs. They say: "We just have a support package and in the evening we get between the nose and the lips by saying that it is being extended. Two hours later, we hear the Secretary of State for Entrepreneurship in a TV show say, "No, no, no, no. At night, we get a letter saying yes. Today we get an answer that we can honestly sum up as: it is not a decision, but you can assume it." An entrepreneur knows that he stays in this trouble for weeks. I understand the balance, but when it comes to communication, isn't the lesson of the past few months that we really shouldn't do it this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u246	I wonder how we're gonna do it. Let me be honest with you about what the dilemma is here. I think that we Hugo de Jonge and I lead the way, with Tamara van Ark and Ferd Grapperhaus and, of course, the entire cabinet leading the country in this barren journey with the virus. In addition, so much is still unknown. Fortunately there is more known than in March and April, but there is still a lot unknown. At the moment we can't say for sure whether the hammer is working, because the latest figures are just not there yet. It is one of the strongest and fastest hammers in Europe, but the question is whether it works. We're not sure yet. But you have insight these days: if it works, it's not the end of November. If certain insights have grown by now, we must be obliged to do so and we have always said so in the Netherlands which share with the Netherlands. Such an insight is not always complete. Because the figures are not completed, you do not know exactly when the package will end. You also don't know if there is an additional braking acceleration and what the effects are. But I think you should. That's the choice we made yesterday. But that is not the decision. You can't take that until you know if the package of October 13 really works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u247	I understand we don't know everything. I really understand that. That's what all those entrepreneurs and their employees understand. But what they don't understand is that this very far-reaching measure I understand why the cabinet that is taking is not being put down as: "We have some serious news today, but we already know that the chance has actually gone by that we are going to stop after two to four weeks. Actually, it's almost for an unlimited time. We hope to be able to stop as soon as possible. Then we're gonna do something with it." Now a lot of entrepreneurs thought: what's going on? I hope that when the Secretary of State for this matter is on TV in the evening, Minister De Jonge has just been called, so that it is not said: no, no, no. Because then I got a two-mail stream: oh, no, thankfully. We all want support. I have a great deal of respect for the way in which the Prime Minister and the Cabinet have to steer this difficult situation. But please let us learn lessons from communication, because this is really bad for trust. A lot of entrepreneurs and their people didn't feel taken seriously. I'm sure that wasn't the intention, but please, let's learn from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u248	Yeah, I don't know if I agree. I'm definitely gonna reflect on whether we should have put that bigger in the press conference. The choice we made, I find logical. If you get the insight in the last few days that the chances are that it's gonna last longer than until mid-November, you have to share it. Mr Van Weyenberg says: then you need to make it bigger in such a press conference. I have to weigh that. But that doesn't make the message any less easy. That message remains very strong, namely: the package will last longer than until mid-November, it will take December. The decision has not been made. There has been contact, of course, between Hugo de Jonge and Mona Keijzer for that broadcast at Op1, I thought, or Jinek. On one. She said exactly the right thing, namely that the decision still has to be taken. But the forward guidance, the insight into the latest insights, we have to do, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u249	If there is information, it must be shared. That is not at all my point, nor is it the point of colleagues. The point is that through this communication there is confusion about what the agreement is and that I understand the line "there is no decision, but assume that" may be administratively understood but also think that that line will not be understood communicatively by many people. I really hope we learn from that. The Secretary of State might be formally right, but a lot of people who watched thought: oh fortunately, it's not going to happen. And I'm afraid it wasn't. So once again, please share, but in a way that people can follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u250	Yeah, I'm gonna take that to heart and see if I agree. But I keep looking, because very difficult announcements will remain very difficult, no matter how you do them. That is a fact in this incredibly miserable crisis we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u251	Let's talk about communication. It is becoming increasingly clear to me that there is a huge gap. The cabinet wants to say that things are going well and then you do something that has not been done so far, namely to bring forward a projection of the reproduction number. You're actually saying 0.88. A lot of entrepreneurs, people I speak to, say: it's going well; it's 0.88, we want to get 0.9 and we're two weeks from 13 October; so we're doing fine. Then they get the message: but in two weeks we'll be sure that this doesn't mean that those restaurants can open up again. That's a difficult message, does the Prime Minister realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u252	All messages surrounding this pandemic are intense and profound and cause great concern for the elderly, young people, entrepreneurs, people who have a job, everything and everyone. We said five times yesterday that it is expected that if the package works, you will come below 0.9, so towards 0.88. That's the expectation; you won't know until later. You don't know that right now. It's always two weeks late. But that's the expectation. There are two questions to be answered. First of all... If the next few days prove that it is not, because the infections are getting worse or other indicators are not going well, you always look at a mix of indicators and then you have to take additional measures. Second. Even if it is, there will be a second question, which we addressed yesterday, namely: if it works, can you also speed up that operation? I just had that discussion with Mrs Van Brenn, Mrs Dik-Faber and others. That's not an easy trade-off. But in the next few days, we're gonna stand there and then we're gonna report on Tuesday. This is how we now, at this stage, have to deal with the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u253	I thought I understood. I thought it was projected that if you look at today based on all the assumptions we make, the reproduction number is now 0.88. But I now understand from the Prime Minister that if everything goes as we want, in two weeks' time, the reproduction number will be 0.88. What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u254	With the reproduction number, you always look back two weeks. The objective of the package of 13 October is, of course, to achieve 0.88. So you'd be hoping you're already in that direction on October 13th, 14th. The point is that the package did not actually enter into force until 15 October. The only number we've had since today is that probably that R-value on October 14th, so just before entering the package, was just above 1. This means that perhaps the package at the end of September did more than we feared, but still too little not to take the big hammer as a precaution. It turns out to be very useful. But, of course, you'll only know with retroactive effect if it's there. It'll take a couple of weeks. That is why you cannot yet determine whether the package of 13 October is working or not. There are no contraindications. It's not in that R, it's in things like the number of moves there is, the number of ATM payments there is, the number of parking machine bills there is. You look at that kind of secondary information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u255	Finally, Mr President. If on 14 October the reproduction number was just above 1 and yesterday it was told that it is now, about two weeks later, around 0.88, again, then many people in the Netherlands think, and I think that is the intention: it is going quite well; we see effects. If then the conclusion is that these effects will not lead to us being able to adapt something, namely that the catering industry may be able to open up again, because it will take at least six weeks, that is simply not compatible. I think that the Prime Minister and Minister Hugo de Jonge simply do not see enough of that. That's a tricky message. Those people don't look. We are talking about decisions here, but it is not so interesting for people who are watching whether you are making a decision or not. What's the idea? What's the expectation? Whether a decision has been formally taken is not so interesting for a lot of people. But where are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u256	When we talk about the expected reproduction numbers, you're talking about the effect you expect the measures to take two weeks ago. Whether that's true or not, you're really gonna have to decide for the next few days. You simply cannot say that with certainty at the moment. Secondary sources show you that at least a few things you'd like to see, such as fewer movements and fewer debits and that sort of thing, work out. But you don't have it hard in the main numbers you're looking at, like the number of infections, the percentage of infectiouss on so many tested people and you name it. You won't see for the next few days. But the purpose of the package is to get the reproduction number to 0.88. That is the expectation of the package. That's what we said yesterday. So you have to reach that first or you have to get very close to it, because then you're going to see that bow. Next, the second question, which we also discussed in the press conference yesterday, is what that means for your braking system. Because 0.88 means that the virus is gradually extinct. The last insight, which we wanted to share with the Netherlands yesterday, is that that brake road really takes you a long way past 14 November. Then you're definitely going into December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u257	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u258	You just said "finally"! One last word?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u259	Yeah, one last time. I've been pretty quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u260	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u261	Right? But let's talk about the strategy. It is announced in advance: we aim at 0.9. People in the OMT said that's way too risky, that's way too linky. I understand that this is related to the number of measures you need to take and the number of restrictions you need to impose on Dutch people. If the expectation is that that is also at 0.9 as an objective... On October 13th you said: we are going to tighten up now and we are going to do that two to four weeks. But that means that, even if we're at 0.9 or maybe 0.8, nothing still changes. Is that assumption that no matter what happens to the reproduction number in the next two weeks, there will be no changes in the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u262	What we can see now is that I have to put it very precisely. It is that you do not know whether that 0.88 will be realized. You just know that's the expectation of the package. When it is realized, you also know that the peak in care, when reached, does not improve, even if you take additional measures now. That may still be reason to want to speed up this brake road, the extinction, with additional measures. I would like to add that there are not many possibilities, apart from very draconian measures, which are also needed for a longer period of time. There could be an administrative-political balance to do that. Given the sum of the September package and the first insights about what we see here, we do know that it really shoots past 14 November and that you are going into December. That is what we should share with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u263	We've been talking extensively about the healthcare pay, but I've been talking about the health bonus all night. Now I see an article on RTL News 27 minutes ago: No coronabonus for thousands of care-zzp'ers. "I really feel like a second-rate employee," someone says. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister what he thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u264	I am not going to respond to reports in the media that I cannot take note of during the debate. And the bonus... I've already done the healthcare pay. Let us then agree that we only send one person here, because then Mrs Van Ark and Mr De Jonge can continue to work. I'll do anything. But that's not the point. I'm trying to defend the general policy, but the bonuses really are with Tamara of Ark. I haven't seen this message and I'm not going to respond to media messages I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u265	Okay, good. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u266	It's a new message, but of course this has been known for a long time. This has been going on for months. There are 30%zzp'ers and temporary workers working as care workers in the care sector. They have helped to combat this crisis. I just want to hear from the Prime Minister whether he agrees that anyone who deserves that bonus should be entitled to it? There's only one more day, one day, for the healthcare providers to apply for that bonus. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister if he agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u267	Mrs Van Ark has just whispered to me that she is coming up with figures right away, also on the point that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen addresses here. She will also say something about the lead time. I really think it's a good thing she's getting that together. I didn't see that last message, so I don't think it's wise for me to respond to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u268	Then it will be a repeat, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u269	And then I get such a general question: yes, but then you do not respond to the message, but to the character of the message. I understand it could all be intense. I hear that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is very touched and then it affects me too, but I do want to have the opportunity to have seen that. And two: in the division of roles, the idea was that they too did something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u270	Mr President, I would like to reply...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u271	They must have something to do, too. That's what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u272	... on my general question to the Prime Minister, namely: does he agree with me that anyone who is entitled to that health bonus should actually get that health bonus? That's a general question. It has nothing to do with the news.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u273	Yeah, sure. There's no discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u274	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u275	Mr. Chairman. I still have a few loose things, thanks to the many interruptions. Or were there any people at the previous point? No. I'll be on the varia section. It was asked to focus on measures that are longer to be sustained. What we're trying to do... In fact, we have just had that discussion, so perhaps I can refer to the previous part of the debate, because that question has been discussed in detail. A question that has not been raised was about the churches. Since I have the opportunity to deliver the Reform Day reading on Saturday, this subject has been very much devoted to me. After all, you all know that Luther nailed his statements to the door 503 years ago. From the start of the corona crisis, the Minister conducts... Did I say it right? No, it's been 517 years. No, 513 years ago. Right? Yes. No, 503. From the start of the corona crisis, the Minister of JenV consults the religious organizations. This is intended to examine with the churches and other organisations what measures can be agreed on a voluntary basis and if necessary scaled up or downgraded. Between March and October, many communiqués were prepared and, if necessary, new communiqués were issued. Due to the seriousness of the epidemiological situation, an opinion was issued at the beginning of October by the various religious organisations, in which they give urgent advice to all churches and prayer houses to maximize the number of visitors on 30 and to allow the meetings to take place as digitally as possible. I would like to confirm once again that it is very important that the churches and other religious organisations follow this advice. This conversation is also continued with the churches and the religious organizations. It is, of course, a question of whether customisation is possible. Then the two-track society. We've talked about that before. Mr President, shall I ask all the various questions? Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u276	Yeah, that's fine. And then Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u277	Then the two-track society. He's gone by now, but I'd like to talk about it for a moment. We are against that. A third of the Netherlands is old, older or has vulnerable health. You can't separate them. But it is true that we simply see in practice that a lot of people who are anxious pay extra attention to themselves and that many young people also pay extra attention to their contacts with people who are older and have vulnerable health. Then there is a public campaign to clarify exactly what the measures are. We are of course working on this, including via www.rijksoverheid.nl, the social channels and the factsheets about what measures apply. We do this for different target groups and in different languages, also in simple language. The National Core Team Crisis Communication is also preparing for a communication approach that will focus even more on how society will have to deal with the virus for some time. Mrs Van Brenk also referred to this. We are also developing the Public Campaign Alone Together. Caretakers who are coronaproof cannot be exempted, because the problem that they were non-coronaproof is not the catering industry. The catering industry is in most cases coronaproof. They're trying awfully hard, but in the sum total it leads to a lot of extra movements. In the catering industry it is inevitable that if there are infections, the numbers are larger. There are a lot of young people and those young people are taking that home. The risk is that it will run through generations. One of the reasons why we had to take this very difficult hospitality measure is not because the hospitality industry is not doing well, which in most cases do it fantasticly, but because that is often the beginning of an infection, which is then brought home. There are many young people, and if there are infections, they are large numbers. I very much agree with Van der Staaij that we need to be sharp on the bear that walks over the volleyball field. Sorry, the gorilla that walks over the volleyball field. Sorry, the gorilla that walks over the basketball court. I very much agree with that. Yeah, that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u278	If you look any closer, you'll see a bear walking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u279	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u280	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u281	Okay. But at least a gorilla. I'm going to look back at Mr. Van der Staaij's video. To this I can only say that the only way to prevent this is for us to be advised from many angles, not only medically, but also socially, economically and socially, for example by Kim Putters and others from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. The other planning agencies are also connected. We have, of course, had the Halsema working group, which has looked at the position of young people in the larger cities, including immigrants. We're talking intensively to the planning agencies at all. We also have the SER and the SER Youth Platform. The advice is requested and unsolicited. That is not a 100% guarantee, but I very much agree with him that we need to focus on this. Then to Mr Klaver: the presumption is that compliance with the basic rules will continue to be a real issue for the time being, depending on the seriousness of the situation supplemented by other measures. In fact, that is also how this roadmap is designed, in order to make clear exactly what measures are appropriate for each level of risk. Of course, you hope to return to the first level, namely 50 per 100,000 per week, so that a lot of measures can be relaxed again. But we will also have to learn from May, June and July. Then we may have had too much of a feeling with each other. So it was not over; that is what we are seeing all over Europe now. But in the end, of course, you have to work towards the pre-corona crisis situation. At the end of the journey a vaccine or a working medicine will then be necessary. The values on which we work are at the forefront of the cabinet: protecting people with vulnerable health and preventing the overloading of care. That's why we want to control the virus to the maximum. In the measures, the strategy aims to do so as targeted as possible, with the greatest impact on the virus and the least impact on the economy and society. Then we are not just looking at care; of course, certainly in such a discussion about speeding up the extinct. I hope that we can do that next week... you are also looking at the economy and what society can handle. We do not give moral judgment on the concrete examples. We do not say whether we are for or against casinos, whether we are for or against sex workers. Sex workers fall into the category of contact professions and the opinion of RIVM is that contact professions can now function. Finally, the question about the negative travel advice the OMT refers to in the last report, following the summer holiday. For the winter holiday period, at least until mid-January, I thought, they recommend a negative travel advice for holidays abroad. We shall weigh that in the coming days. Then we will soon inform the Chamber of our opinion on this part of the OMT opinion. We hope to do so in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u282	Then I have Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Ouwehand, and I also see Mr Wilders and Mr Klaver. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u283	There's a lot to say about the sex workers and the casinos. I think it's special that the cafes are closed, but you can go to the casino. Anyway, I'm gonna leave that for now. I want to ask a question about the churches, of a very different order. My colleague Mr Segers has tabled a motion on this. That motion was passed by the Chamber. The cabinet also promised to carry out that motion. It wasn't about going into conversation with churches about giving responsible interpretation to the group size. That's important. I also heard what the Prime Minister said about that. But that motion also focused on the fact that the churches are bringing a huge army, I would almost say, to volunteers who look after their neighbors in distress, visit coronaproof, provide a meal and ensure that the food banks are filled. The churches have made one of the ministries the offer: talk to us; we can arrange this. And just at this time, when it comes to social cohesion in our society, I would say: accept that offer. They're ready, and they're waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u284	Fine. By the way, it is as if Mrs Dik-Faber already has access to my Reform Day reading, because this is one of the subjects I address: the role of the churches in our society, which is extremely important and contributes to the inspiring relationship in this country and the fact that we are in front of each other. They play a very important role in this. I will return to her specific question in the second term. And I hope that the officials have heard that so that they can find out exactly what the latest state of affairs is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u285	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u286	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has said that Minister De Jonge will answer the questions about the minks, but the Prime Minister will have a video conference tomorrow if it is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u287	Yeah, but under his guidance, so he's gonna answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u288	Okay. Then I understand that the Minister of Medical Care is about to answer what the Prime Minister is going to say in the video conference tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u289	The Minister of VWS is going to answer that. What I'm gonna say tomorrow, he's gonna decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u290	Okay, crazy guy. I hope it's a positive answer where we...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u291	It's called friendship and collegiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u292	Let's do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u293	Mr Wilders and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u294	Perhaps we can also apply this division of roles for once. It worked for a while. Let's get back to the catering business. I am sure you have also understood from the hospitality industry that, especially after the press conference yesterday, it was announced a little bit between the nose and the lips that it would take much longer. Businesses in the hospitality industry have told us that, although they are grateful that they have received between 1 and 1.5 billion in NOW, the entrepreneurs have also put some 3.5 billion in their own money and assets into their business. I think so. For a sector which is bound to close 100%, they have made a significant contribution. And they're not gonna make it. They're not gonna make it with what the Cabinet, what the government, they're committed to. There is a great deal of uncertainty because the cabinet only decides from 1 December what it will do with this NOW regulation, whether or not to reduce it. Could you offer a little more comfort to the operators in the hospitality sector, who are disproportionately hard hit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u295	This afternoon I had a conversation with two restaurant entrepreneurs from Ruurlo, who took a walk through the Netherlands during the last ten days, two weeks, with a backpack on. They have gone off all the restaurants and restaurants, hotels, small cafés, restaurants, etc. and have taken impressive stories of what it means to these entrepreneurs. That conversation impressed me. That was this morning. Frankly, my request would be... a whole package was announced yesterday. We have the existing arrangements, the TVL, the NOW and the Tozo. We presented the whole package yesterday as a cabinet through the three ministers working on it in particular, Wiebes, Koolmees and Hoekstra, of Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Finance. It was also sent to the Chamber. There's a separate debate about it. In that package, catering is a very important issue. I've also seen the first reactions. From the event industry and the theatres they are more positive than from the catering industry. We're all gonna weigh that. That debate will take place here. Also because there is going to be a separate debate, I think it would be more appropriate to put it there than to respond to the first reactions from the catering industry to that package yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u296	The prime minister just brought up the catering business himself. I didn't bring it up first. You're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u297	It was a question from Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u298	Okay, but you talked about the catering business. We have a debate here where, I think, representatives of the people can also speak for the Royal Horeca Netherlands and the catering companies. I am pleased that we are discussing this later in another connection with the Minister for Economic Affairs and others, but you also know that in recent months the relations between the Royal Horeca Netherlands and the Cabinet have not always been very flexible. Again: what can and cannot be done. But they're getting it a lot bigger than many other sectors. Of course, they're not the only ones, but they're getting the hell out of them. I would like you to keep that line open to the catering industry or that your ministers keep that line open and that you, apart from here in the Chamber, also talk to them. They say, for example, that if you close us one hundred percent, then come up with a hundred percent or higher compensation for these fixed charges, because otherwise we will not be able to do it, and only looking at viability is sensitive to us. We do not need to have that debate here. My question to the Prime Minister is a reasonable question: keep the Koninklijke Horeca Nederland industry organisation open to taste where the pain is and whether you can do something extra there. I don't think that's too much to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u299	I agree with this from A to Z. The answer is yes. I'm incredibly heartbroken this morning, but also in my circle of friends and just as a great user of this sector, what people are going through right now. It's horrible. They are wonderful entrepreneurs who, in the vast majority of cases, have tried very precisely to comply with the corona measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u300	I'd also like to lance for those catering entrepreneurs. I understand what the Prime Minister is saying when it comes to small bars and cafes for which it is all very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u301	Oh, I skipped Mr. Clover, but I will. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u302	I had another credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u303	Yeah, that's why I'm not saying another word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u304	I think we can do that. What I'm talking about are the restaurants where there is a distance between the various visitors. The Prime Minister will say: yes, but it will give you more travel movements. Those same restaurants can take care of take-away meals. You'll even have to travel twice. You get the stuff in fantastic stuff and then you go back to bring that stuff back. I don't understand that reasoning. I'd like to break a lance for the restaurants that keep their end of the bargain. If they could open up, like the restaurants of the hotels are open, they save travel movements and people there can safely use the corona-proof meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u305	Mr Krol is right about that. That is also what the OMT recommends, namely: see if you could somehow treat the restaurants differently. At the moment, the problems with the number of infections are so large that this cannot be done at this stage. That part of an earlier OMT advice to look at, we're really studying. We are also looking with the sector where this would be possible if steps could be taken at some point in time to ease the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u306	Good. Mr Klaver and then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u307	I am pleased that the Prime Minister has answered my question about the perspective and what we are working towards. It's significant that it's in the cube of varia. In itself, this would be the big question we are now faced with. The problem for people now to adhere to the measures is that they have the support for the sometimes draconian measures, such as closing down the catering industry, is that they do not know what comes next. It's said: okay, we're going to do some really intense things now and then we're going to be back on a manageable level. And then what? Because, as the Prime Minister says, waiting for the vaccine or a working drug, that's hope and not strategy. Then I'll come back to that test society. That's not just about how many tests you have, it's about what you're putting them up for. In what way does this mean that the catering industry could open up? This is the beckoning perspective you need to maintain support in the Netherlands. In this way, I find it really significant where the Prime Minister's answer contains his answer: all the way down the block of varia. This is the core!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u308	No, not even there. I started sketching the role-sharing tonight. I said the Minister of Health will talk about tests, flu vaccines, minks and the long-term perspective. And why have we divided this so much? Because the question about testing and the test society is linked to it. That is in line with another part of his response. So that's how we did it within our roles. The question I just answered in the context of the interruption is how that long-term perspective relates to the Roadmap. What you ultimately want to achieve, of course, is that those hugely high numbers of infections decrease in such a way that you are on numbers that it is manageable again. Then there can be a lot more. You have to see how to learn lessons from the period May-June-July, when more could be done. Maybe that's when we got together. This is an incomplete analysis I'm making right now. Too much thought it was over. It won't be over. Then Mr Klaver made a concrete suggestion for what we could do. Other suggestions have been made. For the whole long term, really back to normal, it is true that you eventually have to go to a situation with a vaccine or a working medicine. That specific question about that perspective beyond December and January, as Mr Klaver put it, will be addressed immediately by Hugo de Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u309	I will also ask the specific question there. The Prime Minister always says "I am Secretary of General Affairs, not of all matters." If you look at the general policy, that's this. I'm interested in the direction you want to go. I am not concerned with the technical question, because I am not asking it here. Those technical questions will be with Minister De Jonge shortly. I'm talking about the picture the Prime Minister has in January. What's the idea that he's got of that test society? Does he think that's how we can get the catering industry to reopen? Or the cultural sector? How are we going to make sure that we can test education twice a week so that it can stay open? And how are we going to get it to go on in health care? What are the priorities set there? Those are key political questions and not technical ones. That's what we're gonna talk about later. I would really like to have an insight into that from the Prime Minister. If we cannot give that perspective, I understand that a lot of people say: very violent measures, but for what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u310	He's right about that. We discussed this for a long time in the previous debate. I would like to say a little more about that, challenged by Mr Klaver. That's very good. The Roadmap was created with the aim of increasing predictability. One of the reasons why the Chamber voted in favour of the Jetten motion in a bit unanimously, also learning from the Irish model, is that you have much more predictability of what is happening. Predictability in March and April was important. What does the scaling look like? That was the road map then. Now the situation is that you have to use a hammer once in a while. If that hammer works, you're still dealing with contagion. We won't go to zero contagions. You're trying to control it to the maximum. Then there's the question of what's possible in this society. The Roadmap responds to this. I just said a few things about this. What you want to achieve is that you end up going to the signal values as they are in the roadmap. If you're there and you're going past that, you can gradually give sectors more space again. You have to do that very wisely. Then again it becomes very important that we have learned a very big lesson. That is that measures must always be combined with enforcement, and with communication and advice. That is also one of the things we discussed in the previous debate. So you cannot say that the roadmap from a to z gives all the answers. You have to have the debate with each other in the triangle of measures, enforcement and communication and the behavioral advice that goes with it. How do you make sure that as a society in an initial analysis you don't make a mistake that you all feel too much that it's under control or that it's gone? So it wasn't gone. We knew that in June and July of course, but that feeling may have gotten too much together in society. You can now see throughout Europe that the weather is rising, spiking, peaking. As a society you ultimately want to get away from this very intense phase of a partial lockdown so that you can do much more, but in a very sensible balance; more sensible, I think, than we found together in May and June. That is what the roadmap is for. We also need to learn lessons about communication and enforcement, so that you can "dance with the virus" as it has been called before, although that sounds strange; the hammer or the dance. Eventually, you want to prevent, because you have more space, the matter suddenly starts to rise again and you have to grab a big hammer again. You're trying to balance the virus. What De Jonge will immediately address is more detailed, both on that perspective and how the instruments...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u311	You have now answered that in detail. You're referring to the Minister again. That's a repeat. Either you answer the question or you pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u312	Sorry, you're right. But Mr. Klaver looked so bitter when I didn't answer him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u313	Good. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u314	It was a comprehensive answer. Thank you for that, anyway. I'm not quite sure what the Prime Minister means. He's referring to the Roadmap. I get that. That's what we're going back to, and that's what we want to go back to; to the first level. The question that concerns a lot of people in the Netherlands is how we stay there. How do we make sure it doesn't escalate again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u315	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u316	Then it's about whether you have a picture of how to do it. I think the test society is important for that. I think you need to prioritize and have a plan to secure education and care first. Then we must try to keep up all the other critical infrastructures, and then all the things that are fun to do again, such as the catering industry and the cultural sector. That perspective needs to be more concrete. I don't think anyone understood what the Prime Minister just said. I certainly don't. I'm sure there'll be a lot smarter people than me who've understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u317	He's been talking for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u318	The tragedy is that it is really too early for the detailed interpretation that Mr Klaver now wants. For this you will need to know more about how tests and all kinds of other instruments that are at your service are developing at that time. I agree with him that you can start prioritizing if there is more access to it, but it is really too soon for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u319	Mr. Van Weyenberg. No, Mr. Clover. This will be answered extensively. I am also happy if you answer all the questions, but then you do not always have to give a comprehensive answer and at the end refer to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u320	I get that. But, yes, Mr. Klaver looked so sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u321	Mr. Clover, finally. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u322	Very briefly. You want to create a new reality. For that, you need to sketch out what you want and not wait for what's available. We must outline: this is what we want, and that is what we are going to work towards. Now we are dependent on technological developments, when we have to set targets and then bring technological developments to that end. That's what I want to see from the Prime Minister. That is vision and that is putting a dot on the horizon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u323	In a pandemic where there's still so much uncertainty, you have to be careful not to drown in that vision of the future. I understand that this is very attractive, but you shouldn't paint a picture of the future that you're not sure you can, or that it's likely that you can. In any case, we know for sure: as long as the virus is among us, we must do everything we can to ensure that, as has happened between June and September, it does not happen again so quickly that you will have to take very serious measures in the end. And you don't even have that guarantee. The only thing you do know is that you're going to have more and more technological possibilities to control things. And if you do, you're gonna have to look at the priorities you're gonna set against that backdrop. Mr Klaver is right about that. But sketching that image now, I'd think it was false. It's really too early for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u324	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u325	We are going to talk about the support package in greater detail. Should any more stringent measures be introduced, what should be added? And are we helping the catering industry enough now? I now have a specific question which does indeed touch on the basis of the corona measures. Quarantine is very far-reaching. It takes a lot of people to stay home for a long time. That's very intense. Does the Prime Minister agree with D66 that the cabinet should come forward with a concrete proposal in the short term on how we can better support people? We do things about voluntary organisations, but you can also think of a financial measure, for example, or having groceries delivered, perhaps a meal. This could make an incredible contribution, including to ensuring that people comply with the rules, which we all want so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u326	Yeah, but it's incredibly complex. This will also be evident in the debate next week. Mr Van Weyenberg will also hear this from his party colleague Koolmees, who has been talking about this for months, together with Wiebes and Hoekstra. We are very aware of what it means financially for employees and employers when you are told to stay home. If you have a permanent job, you still have the protection of social security and labour law. And through the TOZO there is guaranteed an income of at least the social minimum wage, although that is not fat. In addition, we are looking at ways of specifically compensating employers and employees for the financial consequences of quarantine. Among other things, we look at the possibilities of other subsidy schemes, or a form of quarantine leave within the Labour and Care Act, or a temporary extension of the target group of the Disease Act. Those are all possibilities that are being studied. A specific measure aimed at compensating employers and workers for the financial consequences of quarantine is really very complex, we have discovered. This makes a major appeal to the implementation capacity.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why we are currently looking at the possibility of achieving a more generic form of compensation for employers. By definition, it is less complex and requires less of implementation. But it is also very unfocused and therefore offers a very limited solution to the problem. Thus, in general terms, adding an extra complex regime also raises the issue of the continuity of the implementing organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u327	Yes, but this debate is still under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u328	Yes, but Mr Van Weyenberg is asking the question. I'll have to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u329	Yes, Mr. Van Weyenberg, you know that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u330	I'd do it, but I'd have to be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u331	You will now consider the role of the employer and the work side. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u332	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u333	I asked another question: what can you do specifically for people who have to be quarantined? How can you make them do the same and how can you give them a little support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u334	I was working on that. Sure, that's what we're looking at. But that will have to be discussed in the debate next week. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that you really need to see how you can seduce people. They just have to stay at home when they have corona, but you can also see if you can put an extra boost on it, so that people actually stay at home, and that they also do justice to the fact that this brings with it all kinds of practical problems. This will, by the way, be largely local, with the municipalities. It will not be the case that the government will arrange shopping arrangements, restaurant receipts or such things. That's just very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u335	There is a lot of study going on and I understand that it is complicated, but I hope that we will soon get a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u336	Yeah, they're working really hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u337	A short question, Mrs Marijnissen, because I also have the Minister for Health and the Minister for Medical Care here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u338	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. It can be very short. I would like to return to the Prime Minister's answer to my question as to what plans and scenarios are now being prepared. The Prime Minister indicated that there was, but I found the answer secretive, to say the least. We now have the Roadmap, which we have also wholeheartedly supported. One of the thoughts behind it was precisely to give more openness to the scenarios that are now in place. I also ask this because, in Van Dissel's presentation this morning, when it comes to firmer measures, there was always talk of a two-week period. The Prime Minister is very often talking about this evening that it is going to take a very long time and that it is going to be very difficult. Where does the Prime Minister base that and is he prepared to open up these scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u339	For the viewers at home: if it doesn't turn off, you have to take extra measures anyway. But I do not think that is what Mrs Marijnissen's question is about. Her question is about what you can do to speed up that brake road. I just said something about that. You will soon get to the elements of the March package that are not happening now, such as theaters and flow-through locations close and schools close. But that has a huge impact on society. On top of that, you can think of a lot more intense things with each other that aren't in the package. The booster on the package currently in force in the Roadmap does not go so far as to stop receiving people at home. So you can go much further. Question one is, how far do you go? Question two is, how long does it take? The only thing I want to say is that, according to the information we have now, there is an effect of two weeks, but it is also limited. We're gonna model all that, pass it on, et cetera. Next week we will really come back to that in great detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u340	Mr Asscher, please also briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u341	The Prime Minister is now threatening to close the schools altogether or not. There's a reality in there. Before the summer Germany already had a very specific policy on how to keep the schools safe. A few weeks ago, a motion by Klaver and I was adopted asking for such a plan to be presented. The Minister said: here is a service document for the schools. But that's not what we asked. We're asking for a plan to keep these schools safe. That means that you respond to infections, that you run quick tests there, that you talk to the schools and that there are agreements about how to handle the superstructure in a certain number of infections. Here too: if the cabinet waits until it can and then closes everything, it is a failure towards schools, towards teachers and towards society. Is the Prime Minister prepared to turn that motion that has already been adopted into an action plan, Van Weyenberg also spoke about making sure that schools are safer than they are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u342	I'd like to clear up a misunderstanding first. I did not say that we intend to close down schools. At Mrs Marijnissen's question, what more can you do than we are doing now, I have outlined only theoretical possibilities. A theoretical possibility that we would not be for would be for you to close the whole education. Mr Asscher then asked a very different question: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion? I don't have the latest information on that right now, so I'll come back to that in the second term. But in general, of course, this is the same as what I just said about what Wiebes and Grapperhaus have agreed with the retail trade, namely that that fits for me indeed. I agree with him on measures that do not lead to more restrictions, but to the successful functioning of social sectors in relation to corona. In the second term, therefore, I will come back specifically to what is going on in relation to the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u343	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u344	Thank you, Mr President. I think it's okay if I answer the questions about testing and tracking first. Then I will deal with the questions about vaccination and the perspective associated with it, but also with the perspective if that vaccination does not come. Then I come to the questions about vulnerable people and long-term care. Then I have a cube of varia, because traditions are there to honor. I'll start with the questions about testing and tracing. We gave an outline of how we see the phasing out of the extension of the test policy in the letter last night. Of course, that has everything to do with the fact that there are a lot of developments. There are developments in possibilities. Not only antigen tests have been developed, but also rapid tests have been developed, for example by TNO and the GGD Amsterdam on behalf of VWS, the LAMP test. That's a very nice initiative. There's the breath test. These are nice new developments that you would like to use as soon as possible. I also notice that eagerness with MPs. There are also a number of beautiful initiatives, for example from VNO-NCW. It would very much like to help with the effective deployment of these rapid tests as soon as possible, because it can help them to keep their businesses open and at all costs to continue the economy and society as much as possible. So that is close to what Mr Klaver has often advocated and what Mr Heerma has often advocated. I naturally fully embraced and supported this initiative together with Mr Wiebes. Then, of course, we also asked the GGD to maximize the reduction capacity, not just the PCR reduction. We have asked them to embrace all the possibilities around quick tests and to see if they can further enhance the test capacity. That's a lot of initiatives. You have to organize them properly to make sure they actually strengthen each other and don't get in the way. That is why we have made a draft of the phasing-out in which we really want these new initiatives to come into being. You got it with the letter. A number of questions have also been asked about this. The first question is from the VVD: what position do the test streets organized by industry get? In the first track, we strengthen that basic infrastructure by not only strengthening the current GGD test streets and not just setting the XL locations for very large-scale high volume declines, but also combining them with the 25 fast test streets that will be kicked out of the ground from the VNO-NCW initiative. It should not matter to citizens who initiated or set up which street. They just need to be able to get anywhere as soon as possible. That is the first objective of this design phase. We want to reach that 24-hour target as soon as possible. Next, we want to accelerate further to that target standard as soon as possible, preferably in terms of both reduction and rash within a day. In any case, we want to help people with complaints. Then we also want to help the people without complaints, at least those groups where a higher percentage of positive test results is visible. We're working on that. The LCT, the National Coordination Structure Test capacity, led by André van der Zande, which we have requested for this purpose, wants initiatives and this whole chain to connect as closely as possible. The initiatives from VNO, supported by Defence, to make the start in any case, take place under the direction of the National Coordination Structure Test capacity, i.e. under the direction of André van der Zande. This is the best way to ensure that these new initiatives will all be developed, supported and developed in line with each other. Then Mr Heerma asks: are we on schedule with that quick test process? That's where we're actually doing everything in parallel right now. That's the case with buying. Anything that is even slightly validated or validated seems to be possible in the short term we buy equally in very large numbers. The same applies to the capacity to buy, with the installation of those XL locations and the installation of those fast test locations. Actually, we're already setting that capacity down. We are looking at whether we can also offer employers the possibility of setting up rapid test streets in their own company. At the same time we also see if we can set up a structure for when it will be possible to withdraw from home, even though that really is future music. But it is such beautiful future music, that you want to prepare for it now. So we're actually doing everything in parallel. I would like to say to Mr Heerma that in every progress letter I outline the latest state of affairs, because at the moment incredibly many steps are being taken at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u345	Then I go to Mr Veldman and then to Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u346	I had asked how these business test streets will soon be embedded in the infrastructure. I understand very well that the Minister says that we have the National Coordination Structure Test capacity, with Mr Van der Zande as chief, but that is, of course, about the whole chain, from purchasing, actually testing to using and having laboratory capacity available for PCR. However, my question was much more practical, perhaps even more basal, in nature. You'll probably have two blocks next to each other, and if you put some free boys, commercials, next to it, you'll have three blocks next to each other. These fight for the same locations and look at the same people they can hire to take tests. I don't think we're waiting for that kind of competition right now. If we are going to be able and willing to do much more with these rapid tests, I can imagine that concentrating the test lines in one hand as such in actual implementation has its advantages. That is why my underlying question is: what is it going to look like? Does the Minister agree with me that putting it in one hand is desirable in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u347	Yes, I very much agree. That is why we have said that we welcome and embrace all new initiatives. Anyone who wants to move can join us. I'd love to. In fact, if money is the problem, we'd be happy to help with that problem. That problem may be the easiest one to solve. But we always keep it in one hand. So it's always covered by the LCT. That's not just how we do the regular PCR capacity. The extension of the regular test lines does the GGD, but always in alignment with the LCT. The expansion of the XL locations does the GGD's together with VNO and Defense, but this always happens in coordination with the LCT. In the end, coordination must be in one hand. That's exactly the reason for being the LCT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u348	I get this for the whole chain. Then I'll go to the streets myself. Over the past eight months, we have seen that it has not always been easy for the GGD to make the testing work optimally. Then I think I'll say it very neatly. I understand that, too, because it's not their core business. The core business of the GGD is of course the source and contact research. Is the Minister prepared to see if under the central direction of the LCR for the whole chain, it is not wise to concentrate the practical implementation more with one and the same organisation, because we will soon have three different variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u349	I understand the concern, but I think it's already been fulfilled by the way we're organizing it right now. The commissioning is at VWS, so in one hand. The coordination lies with the LCT, so that things don't work side by side, cannibalize or compete. Everything's parallel. So it's important to keep the whole chain in a good way. Clear coordination is needed from the LCT, which is also in one hand. This also applies, for example, to initiatives taken by VNO-NCW. VNO-NCW wants that, too. VNO-NCW does not want to interfere with the test policy and does not want another type of test policy. That's not what VNO-NCW wants. VNO-NCW said: "The test policy is determined by VWS. Within this test policy, we would like to use our expertise to greatly increase capacity." We would very much like to take advantage of that. We've asked the Defense Department to support VNO with its design. There 1,000 to 1,200 soldiers are trained, instructed, to help set up those XL streets and those 25 fast test locations initiated by VNO. Thus is dragged with man and power, but always under the coordination of the LCT. That is where coordination has to be designed from one hand, otherwise it will become a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u350	In terms of testing policy and the question of how to make your choices, there are a few more things to name. For example: how do you possibly deal with scarcity around quick tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u351	Yes. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u352	There are also a number of challenges to be faced, I think. But I get the test policy. I am concerned about its implementation. In the implementation you will have different organisations that give direction to different streets. I don't think that's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u353	The coordination of implementation lies precisely with the LCT. The side of unambiguous policy lies, of course, with VWS. The clientship is also based on VWS. So it's in one hand. But we do use all these different initiatives and initiators. We shouldn't say: we were already working on a test structure, so we'll do it ourselves. No, let's just say, come on in, please, move along, but under one coordination. So I think we are very much in agreement, but it is already foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u354	I don't think so, to be honest. It looks like the minister hasn't learned anything from everything that's gone wrong with the test policy over the past few months. I really think that what is being proposed now is a recipe for misery. So there's one coordinator. The moment someone calls you coordinator, I think you should be careful anyway, because that's a hell of a job and you don't have any perseverance. Then there are three organizations that are going to compete for stuff and for people. We can see that happening right now. In what way will the Minister ensure that this is prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u355	We are trying to keep coordination on things in one hand in order to prevent this. By the way, there is also, in the end, a market where things can be ordered. You can set up commercial test streets. It's possible. On the market you can also just get quick tests. It's possible. You will come across with some regularity, especially in these months, that it might be that if you weren't at the front of the line, VWS bought the stuff for an important part. Of course you can. But what we are doing is central purchasing and central coordination. What we are doing is to have a mandate, with a perseverance force, as you wish to ensure that the Test Service has the perseverance power in the executive support of, for example, regulating the lab flows in mandate. That is what is needed. We've debated that with each other before. Based on this spring's lessons, central management, central coordination and a central mandate are needed, without losing the partnership or ownership of, for example, an initiative such as that from VNO-NCW. So we are not saying that you cannot do that, because we have already done it and we want to do it. On the contrary, we say: join us, but do so under one coordination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u356	If you have different organisations, for example, the VNO-NCW proposal or the GGDs or the other places, there are also other conditions of employment. Think of the commercial test streets. That means there's competition which employees you're gonna hire. What I think would be a good idea is this: make sure that it becomes one implementation organisation and that you do not have three implementation organisations. Now, if you're gonna bring it all together, bring it together. Don't go saying with respect for ownership. No respect for ownership. Centralize, stop together, control everything centrally and not coordinate centrally. Control, not coordinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u357	I think that's what we're doing. One execution organization, yes. When it comes to everything that has to be done centrally, we do so. That's gonna be the Service Testing in foundation. In addition, you need to ensure that all initiatives that are there are controlled from one hand. That's the LCT. If you say "one execution organization," would that mean we can't use the military? Sounds like it. Are those military gonna switch from Defense to a VWS organization? I don't think so. So one implementation organisation will always have to enter into partnership with others. Are we going to centralize the G.D.D.s? Well, no, not right now. Should we work together and ensure that this cooperation is properly coordinated? Yes, of course. In short, centralisation where it adds something, but does not remove ownership from others, for example in business initiatives, if this is not necessary. In fact, we need everyone's commitment incredibly, but structured from one hand, coordinated from one hand and with commissioning from one hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u358	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u359	Finally, content and then a political comment. In substance, this is precisely the time to ask yourself whether the GGDs should continue to carry out the test capacity or whether you should invest it in another place. What is conceived by VNO-NCW is very interesting, I like that very much. Is it well invested there, or does it have to be in another way? This is the time to bring it together. Two. My group's confidence in testing policy has really fallen to zero, to be honest. We find it difficult to believe that what is now being proposed is really going to work. I'd like to give that to the Minister. We want to cooperate on all points, but at the moment there are too many words such as 'coordination' and 'preservation of ownership'. This isn't the time to have a good time and discuss it. You have to steer centrally, control things militaryly. If you don't, it's a recipe for misery. The Minister will be responsible for that. In March he was mugged; now he has been warned. If this goes wrong, this minister is responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u360	During the last debate, Mr Klaver and I asked in particular questions about all these various rapid tests. The LAMP tests can have a different added value than a breath test. Thank you for the overview in yesterday's letter. Thank you also for the commitment that it will be in every letter from now on. It could be even more important, as I said in the previous debate, for the dance phase than the whole PCR discussion we have had so far. It was understandable in the situation we had, but I think it will be obsolete as soon as we have a lot of quick tests. However, the letter also refers to the question of validating and involving the OMT. My question is as follows. Let me take the example of the breath test. It goes beyond just testing with a medical point of view. These rapid tests also have a social point of view. If you have a well-functioning quick test that might be falsely positive but not falsely negative, an event could go on. Because then a breath test can be performed. The people who come out with a positive result can't go in there, but the others can. If there were a few false results, then alla. But then much of society can go on. Does the Minister see this? Is he prepared to continue to include these aspects, not only the public health aspects but also the social aspects, in these letters, perhaps more at the beginning of next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u361	Sure. There's an incredible amount going on. Very much is still in a rather early stage, but is therefore not less likely. That future music sounds so beautiful, you have to want to get to work with it. That's what he's into, for example, everything that's got to do with taking care of himself, taking care of his home. That's very likely. In the beginning, it is really wise to do so accompanied, because it is just a medical product, a medical act. There are also a lot of legal questions. But it's very likely to get on with it. You mentioned the breath tests. As they are now being tested, the negative result appears to be quite reliable. The positive result, on the other hand, still requires a re-confirmation by means of a PCR test. That determines the application in which you can put it. Which means that in all these tests, we're not just looking at the clinical validation... how does it work? How could you use it in the implementation practice? Then you put things in the right order. That's what the design of the phaser of testing is about. First people come with complaints. They always have priority now. You're gonna want to be able to test people without complaints. Not all tests are suitable for this purpose. Antigen tests are now suitable for people with complaints, but they are not tight. That is not yet the case for people without complaints. Other quick tests are suitable for that. In short, you have to look very carefully at what situation you can use which tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u362	Thank you for that answer. In one part of the answer is exactly my concern; therefore I asked the question. As far as the breath test is concerned, the Minister sketches it as I did: false positive seems more unreliable than false negative. For health care and quarantine, it's very important that you validate it with a PCR. But what if you could use it on the ground in society? Suppose you have a meeting or a sporting event and someone's test is falsely positive. Then he won't go in, but then the event can go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u363	That's right. That could be an application. You're absolutely right. For example, more applications are conceivable. Antigen tests are different from the breath test. But you are absolutely right: you should not only look from the perspective of infectious disease control. That's one perspective. You must also want to look from the perspective of what you can continue, how you can keep society open and how you can keep the economy talking. With a much more intensive use of tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u364	My final question about this. I understand that the focus is now on public health, but in the next progress letter, would the Minister like to address the question of which tests could be considered for the better running of society? It's future music now, but hopefully it can happen very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u365	Yeah, I'd definitely like to do that. I would certainly like to do that, with the comment, for example, from the OMT, that no matter how much it seems possible, it should be safe in the end. As soon as possible, but it has to be safe in the end. For example, philosophies are being made about whether these antigen tests can be used to allow events to continue. Well, I'd like to, but then we really need to be sure that those antigen tests are asymptomaticly sufficiently reliable. And asymptomaticly, it doesn't seem reliable at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u366	Yeah, now I'm gonna ask another follow-up question. I didn't mention the antigen test, because I'm not a great specialist in all the tests. I did deliberately mention the breath test...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u367	Yes, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u368	... precisely because the false positive still seems somewhat unreliable, whether it is at least unclear, but the false negative seems very reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u369	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u370	And yes, for public health it has to be really super reliable, but it can be different for the community side. If false negative is really reliable, it can have a huge added value for society. I would like that to be properly explained in such a letter. And not with a hook "but still" because that already applies in a general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u371	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u372	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u373	Then Mr. Veldman. He asks if test material is being purchased at maximum capacity, so everything we can get. I really want to take away the misunderstanding that we would have limited buying on the basis of an assessment of the question or something. Yes, of course, we have to assess the question, but that is actually much more meant to determine when you can re-enable which groups to re-enable in the test policy. Now we have tests for people with complaints. Preferably as soon as possible we will also test groups without complaints, for example in relation to the BCO group or the group that uses the app, or in a later phase the travelers, I will come back to that in a moment. That's what we use the demand assessment for. For the rest, we are simply increasing capacity as quickly as possible. So quick tests, everything that is clinically validated or even seems to be able to be validated in the short term, we order in very large numbers, because we want to get to work on this as soon as possible. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the role of the army. At the moment, Defense is working with about 1,000 to 1,200 soldiers to help with VNO and the GGD's in the start-up phase of the test streets. This applies both to the XL-test streets, at least the seven that need to be created, and to the 25 rapid test streets. Defence also wants to deliver the first crew, but after that, of course, we must ensure that those test streets are manned by purchasing personnel other than military personnel. If you ask which bottlenecks there are, I honestly think that the availability of quick tests is not so much a bottleneck, because we can quickly scale them up in volume and we already buy in quite a lot, so we already have quite a lot of volumes on the shelf. That's not the brake. The brake is also not in the laboratory capacity for PCR tests. When it comes to scaling up the availability of some quick tests, for example, the breath test: this test is very promising and beautiful, but is also a rather small start-up to scale up very quickly in production. So there's something like a brake. However, the biggest brake will be on purchasing staff. There must be a huge recruitment. It's already started. To be honest, I expect the biggest bottleneck to join the decline. Because the results of a rapid test are known very quickly, but you can take far less rapid tests per employee per day than PCR tests. PCR reduction is much faster than rapid testing. In short, the human question is the greatest, I think, and is also the greatest. So that's where the DOD is doing a great job of getting involved in this kind of thing. Mr Klaver asked about the prognosis of the number. We have carefully outlined the numbers, even though I have learned the lesson by now that if I mention a number, which is a promise a day later and I am kept a day later, even though the number was meant to be indicative or as an ambition. That is why I have assessed the numbers with some caution, but at least in January I would like to be in the basic test infrastructure with 100,000 to 130,000. In addition, it is important whether we should not prioritise, especially for these rapid tests. That was another question. I want to make these rapid tests available not only through the basic test infrastructure, but also through employers who say: let us set up a test street ourselves. You can see that's what employers do. For example, in health care, a lot of employers do that. Hospitals often have their own lab, but nursing homes often use the hospital lab around the corner. There you can see that employers themselves have set up such a fast test street. Sometimes it also happens commercially; I'll get to that later. But I would actually like us to offer this to employers: "If you want to do it yourself, that's very good. Here are the quick tests. Your purchase only has to meet a number of conditions." I believe that testing in that society can be extended even more and more intensively as soon as possible. Then there's the priority scaffolding. Now there is a priority street for people in care and people in education. To be honest, I am only half enthusiastic about this, as I have said before, because it is not so easy at all to decide who has priority and who does not. We really need to leave the scarcity behind for everyone as soon as possible, so we need to speed up the pace of progress for everyone as quickly as possible. I actually want it to be so fast for everyone that no priority is needed at all. When it comes to self-designing test streets in one's own company or institution, I hope that education as one of the sectors says: come on. I hope so, too, from the concerns and from many other sectors as well. In any case, I know that a lot of employers would like them to organise such a test street themselves. We say: that is good, but under a number of conditions. In terms of registration it must remain connected to the GGD's, because otherwise the positive test results will get out of the picture. It must always be done under medical supervision, because it is also, in the end, just a medical procedure. The IGJ should be able to supervise that. That is why we are making a directive, the LCI directive. This describes under whatever conditions, even outside of the purchase under the medical supervision of the GGD's, thus in companies themselves, for example under the medical supervision of a company doctor, reduction can take place. I also want that infrastructure up and running as soon as possible, by December at the latest, but as much earlier as possible. You're sure that for the care, because we already have a delivery relationship with that via the LCH, should be able to succeed by mid-November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u374	Have all questions about tests been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u375	A few more. A few more little ones. One of these questions, for example: is it true that the signals of people who do not show up are recorded as positive? That signal is not known to me and I also hope that it is not true, quite frankly, because that would lead to very different registrations. If you do have those signals, I hope you will share them with me, because then we can go after them. That's not right. A number of groups have asked a number of questions about the commercial test streets. Do we even have those positive test results on the screen? We have the results of some of the commercial streets in view, because we suspect that not all commercial test streets are known and that not all commercial test streets pass their results. It's mandatory. It's supposed to be. According to the Wpg, it is an A disease. This simply means reporting to doctors and labs, but a number of commercial streets do not use doctors, and so this reporting is, you might say, not for those doctors. But also the IGJ says: it should be. A BIG-registered doctor should be in charge of medical supervision. Thus, through the directive, that BIG-registered doctor is also obliged to report this type of results to the GGD. I want it to be very clear what conditions a test street must meet if it is not tested by the GGD itself, whether it is a commercial test street or an employer who would like to do it in his own home. It must also be very clear that the IGJ must be able to act and intervene if it does not. This means that one of the conditions will be that medical supervision must be organised. Another condition must be that the registration is in order. These are all conditions under which others other than the GGD should be allowed to test on their own. It is not forbidden to have a commercial test street. It's just not allowed to let that stay completely out of sight of what the GGDs are doing, because otherwise you can't follow up on a positive test result. Then I guess I've had the test questions with this one. One more check. No, there is one more question from Mr Van Weyenberg. Shouldn't we, like Germany, ask for a negative test as a condition for getting on a plane? I would like to look into that, but I would also like to say that that is very little at the moment. The level of contamination in the Netherlands is very high. What you want to avoid with this is the introduction of the virus. But a quick test is actually just a snapshot and depends on the moment and the incubation is actually not sufficiently reliable at the time. Contrary to what is apparently envisaged in Germany, the OMT is critical of this. However, I think that the background to Mr Van Weyenberg's question is to create a single system as far as possible, in which European countries treat both incoming and outgoing travellers in a similar way. This is, of course, very beneficial for the clarity of everyone, including in the travel industry. Mr Wilders has already referred to this. I have also had discussions on this with colleagues on a number of occasions, so I would like to explore how we can synchronise more with a number of like-minded countries. Germany, in particular, is, of course, a country which we regularly look at. Those were my questions about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u376	Good. Then I have Mr Veldman, with a short question, and then Mr Klaver, with a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u377	By the way, there are still a few questions that I have left open, but the short question is about purchasing, about the capacity that is being bought in. I understand that the Minister says: we are not buying in on the basis of the expected demand. But then the question is: on what basis is the buy-in made? The Chamber has previously stated that I said so in my own term also in a motion by Mr Klaver to ensure overcapacity: more supply than demand. Is there a maximum buy-in now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u378	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u379	So everything that's available? So when a company like Roche is approached, they're going to say at some point: we can't deliver anymore? Is that the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u380	Yes, apart from the brand names, because for the contract negotiations this type of intervention does not help, let me say with a wink. But of course we will always see what we can get for ourselves. Let me give you an example: Abbott and BD's tests were first validated. At least, the clinical validation seemed to be completed in the very short term. That was already the moment when we made the purchase, to mention just two tests of which we already have very large numbers on the shelf. Of all the other tests that are in validation, we are also in the process of ordering large numbers. And indeed, it is often suppliers who supply worldwide. By the way, it's not always the case. With many smaller initiatives, for example the breath test, it is actually a start-up, so we should rather help by investing ahead so that they can scale up their production as quickly as possible. That is a very different type of purchasing process. To get a picture of the numbers: we expect to have 4 million rapid tests on the shelf for the month of November, for the month of December also about 4 million and much larger numbers for January and beyond. From a number of tests we've even held orders until next year's summer vacation, so there's plenty, plenty, bought in. I think we're doing that in much larger numbers than we could put away at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u381	I think that the latter is the answer to the question of whether overcapacity will eventually occur, because that is the objective that has been pursued. I had two more questions open, one of which is over the seven XL test streets, five of which will be in the Randstad. I asked how and why. I also had a question about BCO capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u382	Yeah, that's right. I'll be at the BCO in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u383	Oh, I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u384	And I forgot about this one. The ratio for this XL is that as much of the population as possible should be able to be there within 20 to 30 minutes. That's the way it was plotted on the map. This means that there will be such a street in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Utrecht, Eindhoven and Groningen anyway. So not only in the Randstad, but also in the region. It is so plotted on the map that you can have as large a part of the population as possible in 20 to 30 minutes at such a test street. That's one. Two. In addition, it needs to be much finer, so in addition there will be 25 rapid test streets. These are designed in addition to the regular GGD capacity. In any case, the GGDs in the 25 regions have of course already developed a thick 100 test streets themselves. In addition, it needs to be even more finer. We're also looking to see if we can get much more into the neighborhood with the capacity to decrease, so at least distance isn't an issue anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u385	Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u386	I would like to tell the Minister that the Netherlands is somewhat larger than the Randstad. If the starting point is that as many people as possible have to be at such a fast test street within 20 to 30 minutes, I think the distribution is going to be quite different, because we already see in practice at the GGD-test streets that... I will not give you any examples, but in the Randstad it is quite a challenge when people are told 'you have to go 20 kilometers away', while that is completely normal outside the Randstad, we seem to think it is normal and that happens much and much more often. I would therefore like to reconsider the distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u387	That's why we're looking very closely at all the precision where these XL locations should be located. So these are locations where at least 3,000 tests per day can be taken. That must be in a part of the Netherlands where you can also take 3,000 tests a day, otherwise it is a bit of a waste of capacity. So that is as well plotted on the map as possible to help as large a part of the population as possible within 20 to 30 minutes. This is in addition to the regular test streets, a thick 100 test streets in the 25 GGD regions. There'll be 25 quick-test streets on top of that. In addition, we will see if we can also organise a district-oriented purchasing infrastructure. That's all to work as finely as possible and let the distance be as little as possible a threshold for testing you, so that in the sum of that we can get an even greater test willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u388	A question had indeed been asked, including by us, about the reliability of the R. If the commercial test streets are not all passed on, they cannot be included in the R-number. What does that mean for the reliability of the R?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u389	It doesn't have that much to do with the R, because of course it is calculated on the basis of hospitalizations. So it doesn't have that much to do with that. In particular, it has to do with the number of positive test results you have in view. It is a problem anyway if you don't have positive test results in the picture, because you can't follow them through source and contact research either. A part of the commercial testers we do have in mind those results are passed on and some are not. You cannot start the source and contact research if you as a GGD do not know that someone has tested positive somewhere. That's one. Two. Actually, of course, you should have as much of the iceberg as possible in the picture. We know that we always have only one part, a top........................................................................................................................................................................................... You want to have as much of the people that are infected as possible in the picture. That's why you need to get as many results as possible. Besides, there's something else going on. If testing is not carried out under medical supervision, if it is not carried out by people who have studied for it, then there is a good chance that advice is not in order either. And you also want the advice in order. We therefore believe that all test streets must meet the requirements. If that is not the case, then there must be something we can do about it. That is why the IGJ is investigating this, that we are making a directive with each other that all test streets that are not covered by the IGD have to comply with, and that is why we also want to take enforcement action when that happens. This implies not only medical supervision, but also registration, because you want everything in view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u390	Finally. No? Then I'll go to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u391	Then we have the BCO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u392	Oh, yes, that was a question from Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u393	Yes, the BCO, including that article in the Volkskrant and a question from Mr Veldman. There is, of course, insanely scaled up by the GD's at the moment. At the moment there is already about 4,500 fte that is able to do source and contact research. That is very insane much more than it said in the spring or around the summer. So it's been scaled up incredibly. One works until at least 6,800 fte in December. So it's being scaled up in a great way. Every week, people are trained in a great way and then as well as possible, coordinated from the national shell, at the regional GGD's. An organization that grows so fast, beeps and cracks of course always a bit and certainly doesn't run like a seam machin. The fact that people sometimes don't have a lot to do in part of the day doesn't seem to me to be the worst. We have had this debate: ensure as much capacity as possible. What you do want, of course, is for the human power you have to be spent as usefully as possible. That image did not automatically emerge from the interview with a number of BCO's in the newspaper. I know there are, of course, a lot of other stories to tell about the BCO. There's a maximum scale. Is there a region where even the most minimal can no longer be achieved, where the minimal implementation of the source and contact research is no longer possible? There seems to be one region where, in fact, only indexes are being called at the moment. There we must return to the minimum form as soon as possible. One of the reasons why we want to go all the way back to that level of risk 1 is, of course, because we know that the inhibitory effect that you can expect from source and contact research at a low level of infection is simply much greater, not only because of its capacity, but also because of its effectiveness. That effectiveness of source and contact research at a low level of infection is simply greater. Mr. Chairman. The thing about testing and tracing. Let me now turn to vaccination and the perspective associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u394	But Mr Heerma was waiting a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u395	I had a follow-up question to Mr Veldman's question, two issues within this block. I also noticed in the letter that seven test sites XL are being discussed. Six were mentioned, four of them in the Randstad. Does that mean that there are two places in the Randstad or that the east of the country, where a lot of people still live, is still in running? These people are not getting off well according to the criterion the minister has just quoted. If you want a large part of the Netherlands somewhere within 20 to 30 minutes, you won't be able to go to Utrecht or Groningen in many places in the east.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u396	It's razor sharp. There's one in the north, in Groningen, and there's one in Eindhoven. There are some in the big cities in the Randstad and there is one, to be debated, in the east of the country. It's being discussed, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u397	A brief question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u398	The source and contact research, because it's so important, because it's the foundation of the virus's approach and because we've been talking about it for so long. That image in the Volkskrant article was indeed not beautiful, but I found it more than not beautiful, I found it shocking. Of course, we have had the debate here that it would not be a bad thing if the people of the source and contact research were doing nothing, but the big point is, of course, that there is a lot to do. In that situation, it is unacceptable that people say they have nothing to do by failing systems, by chaotic control and by non-synchronized systems. Surely the Minister must agree with me that at this stage, when we have been working for quite a few months to expand and organize it better, it makes it a little despondent that still doesn't succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u399	Yeah, sure. But I would also like to ask for an understanding of the fact that everything is happening side by side at the same time in the scaling up of the BCO. It is also the maximum recruitment and hiring of people at those 25 regional GGDs themselves. It is both recruiting, hiring and training people in the flexible rural shell. It is also synchronising or more standardising all the processes in those 25 regions and then deploying every additional capacity available in that rural shell on a daily basis where it is most needed. I very much agree with Mrs Marijnissen that there is incredibly much work to be done in the health services. If you look at the current rate of infection with such incredible numbers, a well-functioning source and contact research, in which you may actually assume its inhibitory effect, is actually not doing very well anymore. This has to do not only with the size of the numbers and the number of staff, but also with the fact that an obstacle to such a transmission is difficult to imagine at all. But I agree: it has to be better every day than it was yesterday. That is also being worked on incredibly hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u400	We know that there's a lot of hard work going on, of course. And of course we don't blame the people there at all, because they work very hard. But there's still a question. Why was this whole summer period, when we had that debate, when people were sent home because there would be nothing to do, not used to arrange all these practical, organizational things? That's still bothering us now. I have a specific, brief question for the Minister. The piece also said that the source and contact researchers indicated that the GGD closed at 5 p.m. and that from 4 p.m. there couldn't really be that much anymore, because they couldn't get it done before 5 p.m. I wonder: is that really the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u401	At least I don't recognize it that way for all the health services. Maybe I should say something else. I see there's a lot of criticism of the G.D.D.'s. Of course, in such a crisis, where organisations have sometimes been given the triple or quadruple of their original size, it is difficult to make everything go smoothly. Of course it is, but I must also say that I am incredibly impressed by all the work that is happening there and by the intensity of the work. We have been in crisis for months. In addition to all the sometimes justified criticism, I would also like to see such stories told. Those tireless GGD'ers, who get back to work every time and are ready to mop every day, you could say, where we left the crane a bit open with each other. I find that impressive, and I think that story should be told, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u402	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u403	But again, I don't blame the people who work at the G.D.D. at all. In fact, it's the other way around. The GGD has been saddled with more tasks and less money for years. I understand that very well. I blame this cabinet for not having used the whole summer period, when it was quiet and the virus was under control, to get things in order. There is still criticism of the direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u404	Of course, that's not entirely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u405	That is true, because we are still seeing that the research on sources and contact is not sufficiently conducted and is not sufficiently formalized. Even if there are enough people, the systems cannot do the source and contact research they should do. I just think that's serious. Now in this situation, but hopefully in a situation where we have more control of the virus, that must be in order. Otherwise, we'll be at the slightest or least weather where we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u406	Yes, but with a rate of infection of 10,000 infections a day, it is really impossible to expect from the source and contact research the effect that Mrs Marijnissen expects. We're really gonna have to get back to a much lower level of contagion anyway. And yes, indeed, the source and contact research needs to be scaled up more and more and go better every day than it did yesterday. But let's also appreciate what the GGD's have managed to achieve. Then vaccination and the perspective that goes with it. First of all, Mr Heerma's questions on the vaccination strategy. We have, as we are used to making a roadmap for everything, also a road map for vaccination. Much more needs to be done there, as Mr Heerma rightly says, rather than just deciding which target groups should be vaccinated first. That is what the Health Council's advice is about. The immunisation or vaccination strategy the Health Council advises us about is which group should first and which group afterwards, knowing that there will never be enough vaccine for the entire population at once. In addition, the process runs in parallel to purchase as many vaccines as possible from as many suppliers as possible in as many different types as possible as quickly as possible. The Netherlands started this with Germany, France and Italy. In the meantime, the European Commission has accepted this. Six vaccines have now been agreed and these vaccines are currently all going through the process of clinical trials, which must then be tested in an authorisation procedure for vaccines into the European market. What must also be done is to prepare for implementation. That is an incredibly big job, again an incredibly large operational job. Because, for example, you don't know exactly which vaccine will be first. You probably need different storage facilities for all six vaccines. Because you don't know exactly when the vaccine will be ready. If the vaccines are there, you'll need a lot of people to actually administer the vaccines. Because you don't know which group will actually be the first and it really matters how you rig that execution organisation in which order people should be vaccinated. In short, it is an incredibly large implementation issue. All the preparations for that point are ongoing. I also think it is a good thing that we will report to the Chamber again and again where we stand, including in the implementation, and that we will do more and more in public communication. But from the moment that there is a bit more clarity about that, because otherwise I am going to communicate a lot about things that are still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u407	Did you answer all questions about the vaccine with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u408	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u409	Do you want to do that first? Then Mr Heerma will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u410	The question then is: what is the perspective? The perspective on the vaccine's planning is to be given. There too, we do that, as we say in everything we do, namely exactly what we know. What we know right now is that we expect the first vaccines to be delivered to us in the first months of the new year. This means that we are preparing for this and that in November we will come up with a vaccination strategy in which we will also tell which target groups will be helped first. In those first few months, those first vaccines will come. In the last quarter of this year, these vaccines already apply for authorisation at the EEA, for example, and at the CBG. Vaccines are, of course, the best asset to put this whole nasty crisis behind us in the end. We will only be truly protected in the end, is my firm conviction, the moment we have a vaccine. But what do Mr Van der Staaij and others say if it doesn't or if it takes longer? Suppose all the promising initiatives now being taken at the end of this year are discovered that it is not going to succeed in getting in on time. Then you will indeed have to make sure that you keep society as liveable as possible in another way. In fact, we are also preparing for this, by, for example, stepping up very much on rapid tests and actually using rapid tests to keep the economy and society talking. That is, of course, part of that perspective. Another part of that perspective is that we are very committed to innovative treatments. Of course, they can also protect us to a large extent. We are supporting all the promising initiatives in this respect. We have an expert platform that needs everything that is promising in innovative treatments and an extra move, each to us and advises us over and over again on where we could provide additional support for a promising innovative treatment. That's how we're working on the BCG vaccine, and that's how we're doing the plasma treatment. So we try to help get that type of treatment off the ground as soon as possible. I would hope that the vaccine will actually become effective, because ultimately preventing people from becoming ill is always better than it can cure as well as possible once people have become ill. So at the same time we're focusing on everything that's promising, but our best asset is vaccination. But we also focus on innovative treatments and huge intensification of the rapid tests. We do so at the same time to keep the virus under control as much as possible and as much as possible to be able to resume our normal life as quickly as possible. That's all part of the perspective we're sketching. I hope that the advantage of vaccination actually works. I think this was the block of vaccination and the perspective that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u411	Yes, Mr. Heerma. You don't have to do it anymore? Yes, Mr Heerma and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u412	In the answer to my question, the Minister indicated that he does not want to do it now, because he must have more to say first. I think that is a bit like the discussion we had in the previous debate on rapid testing. When it comes to the proper deployment of a vaccination strategy, the elements are well communicated and well organised by implementing organisations. On the contrary, I think it would be important for us to clarify this at an early stage, because then we can also have a debate here in the Chamber and we can find something about it. Otherwise, we run the risk of communicating at a later date and asking the Chamber if this could not have happened sooner. I would therefore like to have that strategy at an earlier stage and not until we are much further ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u413	In any case, the Roadmap vaccination and the steps we are taking before that, has had your Chamber to fill in everything that is known to us at that time. We must not wait too long with public communication. We need to shape that as quickly as possible, but we need to do so at a time when we can tell enough to give more clarity and not cause uncertainty. So we need to have more clarity about the authorisation, about how it works, about the requirements that a vaccine has to meet and about how all these safety tests are put together, for example. We can do that in the short term. The CBG is going to hold a very big conference on this, I believe on 5 November. That's an important communication moment. Another communication moment is the moment when you actually expect the first deliveries and can actually say something about the planning. Of course, that's what we all want to know. I now have to say very broadly: the first months of the new year. As soon as we can be more precise about that, of course we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u414	Thank you. The Minister's taking out communication. I would also like to say that more can be said about this in the letter. He actually takes out the less important point of the two for me. You can disagree on that. It has been addressed in several letters, but often very briefly, while a vaccination strategy in the next phase is one of the biggest things. Most of the attention was paid to it in the letter of 23 September. If you then see what is said about the execution: there are phrases in it that ask RIVM to "think about it and make preparations where possible." Further on, it says that "conversations are going to take place with potential implementation organisations." In the next few weeks, I would like to know more than what these rudimentary sentences are about something that is very important to my group for everything that we have to deal with for the next three or four years or years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u415	I also sent a separate letter about vaccination. There was more in there. At the moment RIVM is indeed still making the implementation plan, with potential performers. It's organizing the storage and it's organizing the distribution. All this happens with six balls in the air, because we have six vaccines coming up that all ask for something else, for example about the temperature under which they need to be stored. There's a vaccine that needs to be stored at -80. For other vaccines -20 is sufficient. You have to meet all these types of variables right now. I would like to say that in every progress letter we will communicate with your Chamber as much as possible and as precisely as possible. In addition, in my opinion, public communication is very important when it comes to vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u416	I'll come back to the point of communication and perspective. We have also discussed this in previous debates. I have always noticed that people are concerned about the fact that there is such a focus on vaccination as an asset, that this means that more stringent measures are taken. The expectation is that in a while there will be a vaccine, and that everything will be fine. Or one thinks that there is not really going to be work on building hospital capacity, because the idea is: there will be a vaccine and then everything will be okay. My question to the Minister, also in order to understand each other, is whether he recognizes that concern among people and whether he can take it away. Is it the only asset there is focus on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u417	I always want to emphasise that vaccination is our best asset. But it's not our only asset. It is our best asset, because it will actually protect us from the virus, when the vaccines do what they say they do, which is actually protective and immunizing. Of course, there are still many questions, but this is the best main route. That does not mean that this is the only thing we are doing to make the perspective of the most open society possible and the normal functioning of society and the economy possible. The second perspective is, for example, innovative treatment. The better and more intensive treatments can be applied to all kinds of groups, the more it is possible to protect people, and perhaps even to be at least as protective with less measures. Even more beautiful it would be to prevent people from getting sick, but innovative treatment is really a second track. A third track that can help us is all that has to do with quick tests. This can also help to keep the virus under control, with possibly less additional measures. What's true anyway is that we have to do everything we can to get the rate of infection much lower than it is now. Because it's just way too high at all; risky high. We gotta get him down. We actually do everything in parallel tracks, side by side. I find it hard to make a choice. If you ask me what is the most promising prospect of turning this nasty page, it is ultimately a vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u418	I understand. That's what I hear the Minister say. My question was not what is most likely, but, from my first-term perspective, whether we do not focus on one thing and focus too little on the other. Is there any reassurance that not only is bet on this horse, but also on other tracks? Are other traces sufficiently serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u419	Absolutely. Especially when it comes to innovative treatments, for example, I think Mr van der Staaij means that we are very intensively on top of it, not only in a lot of extra research money. As a result of a question from Mr Wilders, I have sometimes written down what we all do on that point. That's about a lot of extra money for research. There is now so much money for research that there is no researcher left to be found that we could also pay. That is where the maximum is really happening, by the way, worldwide. Secondly, we are trying to speed things up in terms of procedures, for example for something that can already be applied in a clinical trial, in order to actually be applied to larger groups of innovative treatments. We try to buy everything as quickly as possible, where it is also available somewhere in the world. We strongly support new promising developments. For example, we have supported plasma treatments with a lot of money and with a lot of power. Sanquin was actually the first in the world to have such a type of treatment off the ground. So we have great research groups and we are on top of helping where we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u420	Mr Van Weyenberg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u421	The vaccination is the bait in play, I think, if it works. I have a question about the strategy. Mr Heerma was right to speak about this. The importance of looking closely at this issue as a Chamber has grown in my mind because of what we now see with the flu shot. Months ago, many people in this house, including D66, asked if that was in order, because we expected that there would be a lot of demand for that flu shot. Yes, that was very important. Everyone has to do that, the Minister said. But now that we are a few months away, it appears that the call is: if you are a healthy 60s, please do not come for a flu shot, because it runs us over the shoes. How do we prevent this kind of thing from happening again in the roll-out of other vaccines? What lessons do we draw from this? I have to say, I find the procedure around the flu shot very painful. A lot of people are really waiting for that shot because they want to protect themselves and also because they want to respond to the cabinet's appeal to the people to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u422	I think there's been a misunderstanding. On the contrary, we have bought maximum on the flu vaccination. No misunderstanding about that. Indeed, it would be a great help if we could avoid a flu epidemic next to the corona epidemic. It really helps if we could do that. And yes, flu vaccination helps, of course, to protect vulnerable people. That is why we have called for special attention to be paid to influenza vaccination in healthcare establishments and bought half a million additional vaccines, with which we have a total of 3.88 million vaccines. This allows about 60% of the target group to be served. Experience shows that in most cases about half of the target group comes up. And of course we knew it was going to be more. Just for the record, we ordered these extra flu vaccines in March. Normally we order the flu vaccines in January. Every year, the flu vaccine is compiled on the basis of WHO recommendations, since the flu virus is a mutating virus. In January the order is usually placed for what you need in the autumn. In March, therefore, we have already reordered everything that could be added to our order. Only a limited number of suppliers can supply such a type of vaccine. We'll keep in touch with all those suppliers. In the meantime, we have even ordered vaccines which we do not think are quite good enough, which do not quite meet the standards. We are not limited in that either. We ensure that we have as many flu vaccines as possible. In short, we have actually done exactly what Mr Van Weyenberg says from the very beginning, i.e. Maximised on the purchase of flu vaccines. There's just no more to get, not in the whole world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u423	But what you see, apart from what it's coming from, I'm mostly looking to learn from it, is that a lot of people who are waiting for the flu shot, who want to get vaccinated, now after all the calls get the message: are you a healthy 60, don't come yet. I think that's a bad thing. By the way, I also know from people from a healthcare institution that they are just being told: no, you cannot have your staff vaccinated right now. Does the Minister recognize that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u424	I don't recognize the scarcity of care institutions, but with general practitioners. So it is for vulnerable groups. Of course, care institutions do that themselves. As an employer, they themselves are responsible for vaccinating their people. General practitioners, of course, do it for vulnerable groups. In e-mails we read that half of GPs have all been delivered more, all of them about 115% compared to last year's GPs indeed run into the limit of availability. But I would like to stress that production, the lead time of making the flu vaccine, is about five to six months. In the early spring, when the corona pandemic broke out, we already maximized the procurement. We had to place those orders in March. There's only a limited number of suppliers that can make it. Anything you could order, we ordered at that time. We have very intensive contact with all suppliers. If there is anything left, we will buy it extra. That's how we're in. What are we going to do about the vaccination against corona? Throughout the European Union, we make agreements for all vaccines that are at all likely to be able to order the maximum number. We do this because we are not sure which vaccine is going to be most effective for which target group. So we have to have everything lying down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u425	Good. I'm gonna make a point of order anyway. We've been here since 2:15 p.m. I don't want to get the situation of a minister passing out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u426	I've been fed by the messengers. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u427	But if it goes like this, I'll just suspend for dinner break. Then you can continue answering the questions. This can no longer be justified towards the employees. So I would like to propose that we suspend until 9:05 p.m. Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u428	Whatever you say. You're the boss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u429	Yes. We'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u430	The Minister knows exactly where we left off, but Mr Wilders wants to ask a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u431	Can the Minister state, also for the people at home, when he thinks that we will have a working vaccine in the Netherlands for the first time? I read the letter. There are all different projects. Just before the suspension, you explained what you bought for security. But just for the people at home, you don't know, but is that somewhere in December or January? What's your assessment? When is there something that works and can be used here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u432	I say something about planning with the utmost caution. We made agreements with six suppliers: AstraZeneca, BioNTech Pfizer, Moderna, Janssen, CureVac and Sanofi. The application for admission to the EEA by AstraZeneca and BioNTech Pfizer is expected during the fourth quarter. I then expect that in the first quarter of 2021, i.e. in the first months of 2021, these two vaccines will be first on the market and will actually be available in an initial delivery for the whole of Europe, of which the Netherlands will receive 3,89%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u433	Thank you for the information. This would mean that it will be on the market for the first time in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u434	In the first few months. I'm holding a small blow to the arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u435	In January or February it is therefore the first time on the market. You have ensured that the Netherlands gets a share of that. Would that mean that the first people in the Netherlands can also be vaccinated in January/February? Or is there another step in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u436	The answer is yes. If the clinical trials go well until the end from now, autumn, until Christmas, and if the start of the authorisation goes well and sufficiently fast and deliveries start in the first quarter of 2021, then you should be able to do the first administration. That's what it's all about. That's what the preparations are for. That's why we do everything in parallel. You can see my caution. As soon as I say "January," that will be the headline in the paper tomorrow. That's why I always say "the first months of 2021." That's to the best of my ability to do the prophecy I can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u437	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u438	It's not a trick question. I understand that that cannot be stated exactly. You say: January, February, first quarter 2021 it comes on the market and is available and we can also administer it. My final question is whether you can indicate how many people, if it worked, with all those ifs and buts, could be vaccinated in that first quarter if they wanted to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u439	That depends on the size of the first batch. Large numbers have been bought from all suppliers, allowing us to vaccinate all the people in Europe who should be vaccinated. Even if only one worked, you would still have enough for the whole of Europe. But we've done that six times. We have bought enough vaccines from all suppliers for around Europe. We will then discover for the latest clinical trials, as well as for the approval and advice of the Health Council, which groups of vaccines are the most suitable. For example, part of the vaccines may work for a lot of people, but it happens to people with a weaker immune system, for example, the elderly, which you would like to protect first. So that's what it all depends on. They will then always be delivered in instalments. That's just about the production of a company like that. Of each tranche delivered to Europe, we get 3.89%. Suppose AstraZeneca is the first. Well, that could just happen, given the schedule. The basic delivery for Europe is 300 million doses. There is an additional 100 million optional delivery. If the first tranche were 50 million, we would get 3.89% of that 50 million. Then we match that with the groups that the Health Council says you should be the first to vaccinate, probably elderly and caregivers. That's what you're organizing the first administration for. This was also Mr Heerma's question. He asked to inform the Chamber as accurately as possible about everything we know in a follow-up letter. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u440	I think you've come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u441	Well, that's very excited. I still have a few questions in the block of vulnerable people and I still have the traditional block of varia. First of all, many groups have rightly asked about vulnerable people. They asked what we're doing in long-term care. We often hear about hospital care, but we should not overlook long-term care. That question is right, because there is a lot of suffering and a lot of pressure on the care. Of course, you don't want to scale up hospital care, but you can still do that. In the case of long-term care, this is not possible or hardly possible. At least the possibilities are much less, because you just have to take care of the people who live in your institution, for example, people simply need community care. There too, something can be scaled down, but rather not and better not. What I see when I am on a job visit and what I hear from the academic workshops that have been investigating the crisis in nursing homes since the end of March at my request is that nursing homes are much better than in the first wave at following the guidelines and following the manuals made. Nursing homes are therefore substantially better prepared than in the first phase. Of course, that makes sense. It's impressive what's happening. Verenso has drawn up a directive on how the substantive examination should take place in the cohort care. That directive is very helpful. It's a good use. In addition, many parties have made a handout about how to deal with visitation. It is very well used by many parties. It also helps very much to be much better prepared and is certainly impressive. In addition, we support providers when they need it. Through Vilans and many knowledge partners we organize support for the nursing homes. In long-term care there is not only more work to be done in nursing homes and one has to be prepared. Of course, that's what you see in home care and in community care. There too, it is difficult to scale. Of course, that doesn't happen either. There too you can see that the schedules are indeed under pressure, because so many employees are infected. You can see that community care institutions work much better together on that point. For example, they make corona routes together. If there are many corona patients living in a neighborhood, they work together in teams of district nurses. The fact that they're pulling up together makes you suffer less from disease. ActiZ, Zorgthuisnl, V&VN and Verenso are working together on a document on how to make choices in the long-term care priorities in a responsible way, such as: what is the most important and what should remain in this type of care? In addition, we make financial agreements, including with the VNG, on the additional cost regime. That's important. Mr Veldman and others asked what we also do for the elderly who live at home. We have also made a roadmap for them so that they know what to expect at what level of infection. What can and what do you need to be careful with? In communication, we try to pay attention to the people at home, to help them make good choices in this crisis. Mr Azarkan asked for this too. I see him getting up. I thought: hey, he'll be one of those who asked a question about it. Mr Van der Staaij asked how we should ensure that adequate care capacity is built up outside hospitals. In the base, we have 300 places outside the hospitals anyway. In addition, we currently have 550 places that can be used within 72 hours. We also have 1,150 places that can be realized within two weeks. So we also had some sort of upholstery plan of beds outside the hospital. They are mainly intended for people who live at home and are not so sick that they have to go to the hospital, but are so sick that they are not really able to be nursed at home. They may also include people with a vulnerable partner or otherwise, or people who come from the hospital, no longer have to stay in the hospital, but cannot actually go back home. For those people additional care capacity has been built up outside the hospital. Often this has happened in a wing of a nursing home or in geriatric rehabilitation care, for example. The additional capacity is often furnished on that type of beds. This capacity is being scaled up. The Directors of Public Health look very closely at whether in a region there are enough places of that type. If the number of spots is insufficient, additional scaling is done. Then the pgb-care. Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether there should be no regulation for the pgb-holders. The measures taken for all in-kind care institutions have, of course, also been taken for people with a pgb scheme. As an example, I would like to mention the additional cost compensation which applies to the additional costs, for example, from personal protective equipment, cohort care or one-and-a-half meter setting. This applies to Wmo and Wlz settings, but also to pgb holders. So this one's still in effect. In addition, you need to look at the following, not just the pgb. In spring care could no longer continue, so care could no longer be declared. This while there were people on the payroll of an institution, who simply had to be paid through. We are talking to the field-wide whether we should not do this type of continuity arrangement again, now that we are in the second wave. We are also talking, among other things, about the representation of the pgb-holders. It is indeed a good idea to consider whether the principles governing care in kind should be translated into people with a pgb in the same way. I will make sure that in the next letter we make that arrangement clear to your Chamber, because we are currently making agreements on it. Mr. Chairman. That was this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u442	Mr Azarkan, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u443	It's about the GGZ aid question. In the previous briefing it appeared that 72,000 aid questions could not be passed through during the "intelligent lockdown," that is what we called the last time. Have we learned anything from that, so that during this period we can lead people in some form or another who have a request for help, even if only part of the group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u444	Yes. Very specifically, I don't have the numbers in my head. What happened very strongly in the previous wave, when we announced that intelligent lockdown, that all stopped. That's what you're worried about. That's a big difference, even in the experienced wave in hospitals. Worry-breed actually stopped everything back then. It has been said in the course of time: it is unwise to stop everything. We should actually try to keep regular care as much as possible. But now we see, in hospitals as well as elsewhere, that the desire to keep up as much of the regular care as possible, given the high pressure of the covid patients but also given the high level of contamination among health care workers themselves, gives extra pressure. You could say that the wave in the hospitals is now half as high as the first wave, but feels at least as heavy as the first wave. Of course, that has everything to do with keeping up the regular care. What is really different in daily spending and in psychiatry, is that they haven't stopped being so generic with everything that happened, but that they try a lot more to keep going as much as possible. There's something extra going on in psychiatry. You'd like to do as much as possible via image bells, but some of the treatments don't actually work through image bells. Mr Blokhuis is doing a lot, including the ggz, to see what can happen. Again, I will include the numbers in the next progress letter, but I have the feeling that the ggz is doing pretty well to get as much as possible going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u445	I had asked a very specific question about loneliness. 90% of the elderly still live at home. The Minister is right to say that you see a number of things being reduced there. Household care is there instead of twice a week once a week, so people see fewer and fewer others. In the first wave, you saw people looking back at each other a lot more. That's much less now. The question was: can the Minister mean anything to make sure that it comes back and that all those people who are now sitting alone at home can be looked at more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u446	I share it very much. I share the concern, too. I also see what Mrs Van Brenk means. In that first wave there was such a huge sense of together in society, the feeling that we really have to do it together, looking back at each other, endlessly many initiatives. That's less, that's different. At the same time, there are many initiatives, including for the elderly at home. Take everything the people of the Red Cross do. The initiative from the churches is also very important. Everything that the Listening Line does, for example, is also very important. All these initiatives have actually continued to increase their commitment to the greatest extent possible. The only question is: how do you reach lonely elderly people? Of course, you don't always know. The sad thing is also often that you see that all contacts are reduced with lockdown-like measures. If your circle was already very small and it gets even less, loneliness is really lurking. Fortunately, there are still a lot of beautiful initiatives. The art is all the time to make sure that the people who really need it know about these beautiful initiatives. Of course, we do a lot of things about that. For example, we have this website Support point Coronacaren not only for lonely elderly people but at all for people who want to express their concerns. For example, we have the national Listening Line, which is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We have numerous local initiatives. Municipalities are also really active to highlight this type of local initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u447	All right, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u448	Varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u449	Mrs Dik-Faber a brief question. The same applies to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Then we go as soon as possible, after the block of varia, to the Minister of Medical Care. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u450	The Minister indicated that he is in conversation with a representative of budget holders to talk about the pgb and the non-provided care scheme. That's good to hear. I have also heard that these conversations are going on, but is it true that this is only seen on the Wlz-pgb and that the discussions on the pgb under the Health Insurance Act, Wmo and Youth Act are being conducted in a different way, so to speak? It's a little euphemistic. I have a feeling they haven't gotten off the ground yet. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u451	In any case, what I think is needed is a comprehensive analysis of what is now needed in terms of continuity. That applies to all forms of delivery. Within pgb, that again applies to all care laws. I'd like to do it in one go and one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u452	I have a supplementary question to ask. I received an e-mail from a representative of a pgb-holder. She says: the healthcare provider who provides care from the pgb budget has taken unpaid leave from other jobs to make extra efforts for an infected pgb holder. How are these caregivers compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u453	This is quite complicated in technology, because if she has taken unpaid leave, there really is no basis for making payments anymore. But for extra delivered pgb care because there is extra care to be provided, the additional cost scheme applies. As is the case for care in kind, this also applies to pgb. The other way around, i.e. unpaid care, while there should be continuity and payment of pgb holders, is the scheme referred to by Mrs Dik-Faber. It was there in the spring and we would like to have it again, but that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u454	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u455	Then the cube of varia. First of all, about ventilation in nursing homes. Mrs Van Brenk asked: why is it taking so long for answers to the written questions? On 13 October, we informed the Chamber of the extent to which the ventilation systems in the nursing homes comply with the Building Decree 2012. ActiZ then indicated that the nursing homes were built under these requirements. Questioning among the members has resulted in that ventilation is in general order. In any case, the driver knows what he has to do and is able to do so. VGN has made a similar request in the disability sector. This shows that the institutions comply with the requirements of the building decision and that the RIVM directives are sufficiently well known. In addition, I have also asked the various industry associations in the other sectors of care about the ventilation assignment whether they know what to do, how to deliver the advice of RIVM in their own institution and whether we can further support it. We don't have all the answers to that yet. If so, I hope to have a sufficiently complete picture to answer your questions. That's why it took a while. Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's question: where is the approach in relation to the avian flu? I think you meant: where is the implementation of the motion of 25 June? That motion calls for an ambitious plan of action to significantly reduce the risk of the emergence of zoonoses. I also said at the time that it requires an international look. This also requires a little more work than we can do at the moment in our crisis organisation. But we did get to work on it. I think that in a subsequent letter I should give you the correct state of play with regard to the drafting of that motion. How often have viruses broken out in the duck farms? Since 2014, nine times a case of highly pathogenic avian influenza has been found in a duck farm. Then there is the question of whether it would be possible to raise the minks at the video conference that will take place tomorrow. This is an informal meeting, where no conclusions are drawn or decisions are taken. This involves an exchange of experience and insight in the field of testing and vaccines. There is therefore no place at the moment to put mink farms and imports from China on the agenda. As far as mink is concerned, of course, other countries with mink farms are already being looked at with a slanted eye to see what the risks are and how they deal with mink. You know the policy in the Netherlands to finally move away from mink farming. Those were Mrs Ouwehand's questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u456	As I'm used to, everything's in the block of varia. I'm going to go back to the questions I actually asked. It is good that the Minister knows how often avian influenza has broken out in duck farms, because he admits that the Dutch government's approach to preventing this type of animal disease from spreading further and skipping human beings is failing. The approach is: store up all the animals. Well, ducks never come out. And one third of bird flu outbreaks are in duck farming, which is still a relatively small sector. So that approach doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u457	And the question is, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u458	I have some questions. I can't help it either that important subjects...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u459	You may repeat them if they have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u460	We are very shocked by Deloitte's report which looked at the functioning of the NVWA. This shows that because the NVWA is currently unable to do nearly two thirds of its tasks properly, the visibility of this type of animal disease, which can mutate into a disease dangerous to humans, is very small and that if there is an outbreak, the spread is much greater. I asked the Minister when his ministry knew about this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u461	You therefore refer to the letter on the rethinking process at the NVWA which the Minister of LNV sent to the Chamber on my behalf. "Sent to the Chamber on behalf of my colleague Van Ark," I must say. The study was carried out by Deloitte on behalf of LNV. VWS has been closely involved in the preparation of this report. The report shows what the shortcomings are in the current working method in order to carry out all the tasks of the NVWA sufficiently. In the accompanying letter of the Chamber, the Minister of LNV indicated how the clients and the NVWA will deal with this together in order to carry out the supervision responsibly and to take steps towards multiannual stability and focus in the NVWA's contract package. That is in line with the rethinking process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u462	A wonderful answer, but no answer to the question I asked. I wanted to know when this report was reported to the U.S. Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u463	VWS has been closely involved in the preparation of this report. So you want to know what period that was? I don't know. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u464	Can that answer be given at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u465	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u466	That'd be great. Then there is the question about the conference tomorrow. All European Heads of State or Government meet in a video conference to discuss what we can do together to get the pandemic under way. The Minister has had a long debate here and I have heard him say it many times: the best asset card is a vaccine. I have already asked written questions about what is happening in Denmark. That is what is happening in the Netherlands. Mutations occur in mink farming. They've already been skipped to humans. If you carry a mutated virus with you, the vaccine may not work. So if vaccines are on the agenda tomorrow and the Minister says here 'there is no room to talk about mink farming or fur farming', then I think that we do not miss the chance, not only in the Netherlands but collectively, of effectively getting that pandemic under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u467	But of course we have already taken a series of measures here and now with regard to the mink, in order to reduce the risk there. In addition, of course, we have the agreement that the mink farming sector will stop before it was planned. So I guess we really took the risk out there. I have already explained the risk to public health of reservoir formation in previous debates on mink farming. In a sense, that risk is relatively high now that the contamination rate in the Netherlands is so high, because the chances of getting infected by a mink are actually a lot lower than that of getting infected by the neighbor. With about 160,000 infectiouss at the moment, 1 in 110 people you encounter are potentially contagious. So, yeah, the chances of being infected by human-human contamination right now are really a lot bigger, unlikelyly much bigger than the chances of getting infected by a mink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u468	This could have been easier, because I put questions to the House ten days ago and asked the Minister to answer those questions for the Corona debate. It's a real danger. I can repeat it again. I am actually a little shocked that the Minister simply doesn't want mutations to occur, two per month, and that it doesn't just remain in those minks, but that in Denmark it has already caused 150 infections of people with the mutated virus. If you're working on a vaccine and you're still starting from variant A, but the virus is already on variant E, that doesn't help. So I'm just gonna ask the minister again. There's a video conference. The Netherlands is stopping its fur farms early. Even Poland is over, Pólen: a very big furfokker. Why not look tomorrow, in consultation with the European colleagues, at what you can do to eliminate the danger of fur farming throughout Europe? It is, of course, also an approved motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u469	But, of course, we have just put an end to the mink sector as a whole. So here comes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u470	I know that, and that is why I think it is wise to do the same in the rest of Europe and to see which colleagues you can work with. Because if such a virus still mutates across the border, it's waiting for it to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u471	In any case, I will answer the written questions in a good way, but I think that we have really done just about everything you could do in relation to the mink breeding industry in the Netherlands so that at least we can avoid any further danger. In any case, given the high level of contagion at the moment, I would also like to make the real danger from the mink and to relate it to the very real risk of contagion between people at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u472	But the question, for the sixth, seventh or eighth time, is about the subject that should be on the agenda tomorrow or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u473	I have already said that tomorrow's agenda has been determined. That's vaccines and tests. That's what tomorrow's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u474	Okay, then it's clear. Otherwise you will continue to repeat the same question and receive the same answer again, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u475	That's a missed opportunity. Did the Netherlands do its best to get this on the agenda at all, I wonder?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u476	No. We have said that it should be about testing and vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u477	Then maybe we can make an appointment. I would very much like Parliamentary questions to be answered properly, precisely in order to avoid asking detailed questions in this debate, because we have a time pressure here. Most Dutch people do not come to a mink farm, but I think the Minister will have to admit that the contamination of mink on people there has been much greater than in any family situation. You can make it all go away, but those people are just sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u478	Of course, we are going to answer those written questions as best we can, but we do see a lot of sets of written questions coming in and there is also just a limit to what our employees can handle. With each set of questions, the final question is: can you answer these questions before the debate? We always try to do that, but it does not always work because there is an incredible amount of work. I'm gonna go to some other questions that are still there. Mr Krol asked about the number of infections reported today. What about those numbers? There is another IT malfunction and that is really problematic, because it is the second in a short time. That's why we're on top of that. Of course, the GGD does the same for itself. This has to do with HPZone, the system of the GGD itself, and with CoronIT, another IT system that is needed to get the corona results properly registered. Then that system should talk to Osiris, so that also with RIVM it is clear which infections, which positive results come in that day from which GGD. So these are three systems on top of each other, and that just leads to too much IT complexity. That is also the reason why we are fully engaged in looking at how we can remedy this. A number of GGD's were also called by the RIVM this afternoon because there seemed to be a lot less results, the GGD Utrecht and the GGD Twente. They both indicated that there were technical problems that prevented them from getting into HPZone. The GGD Twente indicated that there is also a linking problem between HPZone and Osiris. The GGD Amsterdam had a lot less reports, but there was no technical problem there. There the number of test applications had also decreased considerably over the last weekend, so that could also lead to a different explanation. At the GGD Hollands Midden and the GGD Haaglanden there was also a lower number of infections. They indicated no technical problems to experience. That's what we know now, but I'm not going to draw any conclusions from that because I just want to know better before we make any conclusion. In any case, we're investigating exactly what's going on in these different systems. We also call for external expertise and help the GGD and RIVM improve processes and IT systems. That's how we're gonna do it. Shouldn't be added behavioral scientists? That was not really the question, but Mr Krol asked: is there sufficient use of behavioral expertise? Yeah, we do, in a few ways. The behavioral unit of RIVM, in which behavioral science is combined, is fully exploited, not only in the design of measures but also in the communication of measures. In addition, we also involve behavioral expertise in psychology from the communication side of the crisis organisation, the NKC, in order to improve the package of measures and to strengthen communication over and over again. Indeed, if the fight against infectious disease is particularly behavior, then we must also ensure that we involve behavioral science sufficiently. Then there's the rise in the sewage data. Mr Krol asked for that, but so did Mr Heerma. That dashboard indeed shows a steep increase, but we have always indicated that the methodology of the sewage data is still under development. For example, the current data are not yet corrected for precipitation, which is very decisive, nor standardized to 100,000 inhabitants, which is also very decisive, because rainwater thins the results. We will be able to show those corrections on the dashboard from Tuesday 3 November. If you look at those figures, you will see a number of cautious trends from Tuesday. Firstly, the RIVM sees the figures flattened in that too. In addition, there appear to be differences between regions and between municipalities within a region. That too is interesting, but we still have to learn how this relates to the positive test results. It is only after time that you can actually connect conclusions to the waste water data. At least we can't do that right now. What conclusion does the Minister draw when it comes to which groups with the most infections jump out? That the group 50-plussers is now also a group where you see many infections. I just need to think about yesterday's state of affairs. If you look at the percentage numbers, you can see that it started very much on the youth side: from 20 to 29 years old, and within 20 to 24 years old. But by now you can see an increase in the number of infections throughout all generations and age cohorts. You can also see a percentage increase in 50-plussers. Even at older ages you see an actual percentage increase, as a percentage of the total number of infections. What that could mean, however, is that at some point it is going to translate into, for example, the length of the hospital admissions and the percentage of infected people actually admitted to hospitals, because of course older people are much more susceptible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u479	If you stand with your back to me, it's gonna go all wrong. I'd like to keep in touch with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u480	But such an interesting question requires an answer! I'm getting back on my feet, Mr. Chairman. I turn to Mr Van Weyenberg's last question. He asked about the quarantine. As far as financial support is concerned, Mr Koolmees in particular, along with the three W's, let me just say for the sake of convenience. But we do work very much together and we hang out together. For example, what we do is support. The implementation of the Asscher motion was about the quarantine package. We have translated that into a local aid offer and a quarantine guide to explain how you could get that aid offer. That's one element. The second element is financial support. It is very complicated to shape that so precisely that you can also compensate individuals. It's very complicated. You also want to compensate companies individually for the quarantine. That's also very complicated, technically. So we'll have to look for other elements. For example, what can help is financial support via vouchers. That could be an encouragement, nudging, to make sure people stay home. What we are also working on, of course, is a more binding design of the quarantine. I will come back to the whole in a next progress letter. Das war es, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u481	Yeah, really. Only if a question has not been answered, no new questions and no new interruptions. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u482	With a little introduction... No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u483	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u484	I asked a question about the OMT opinion on travel advice. Has it been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u485	The Minister of All Affairs answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u486	Then I just didn't pay attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u487	We'll be back as soon as we can with a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u488	Thank you. We wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned a bit. I saw the Minister of Medical Care every time giving an answer to the Prime Minister or to the Minister of VWS, so I hope you have something left. Well, look! I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u489	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that I had actually dealt with a number of topics under the two main themes of staff in the care and regular care and ic, but you have indeed seen me pass on answers a number of times. So let me at least start with the issues within which we have not yet discussed them. I had indeed sent a letter today about the salary, the reward and the appreciation in the care, but a lot has already been exchanged about that. In particular, I would like to give additional information on a number of other issues in response to the questions raised. Among others, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet have asked questions about making people more employable for care. A large number of actions have been launched. It is a very important issue, because we do see that more and more organisations are experiencing bottlenecks, sometimes acute bottlenecks, in the field of staff. We see this in hospitals, but certainly also in disability care, nursing homes and ggz. It is very difficult if there is a shortage of nurses and nurses, but certainly in crisis times it has become much more acute. We've started a number of actions. Some actions are already underway and have been intensified. I will do a brief anthology, because there are also a number of things listed in the letter. In any case Extra hands for care is automated and professionalized. People have come to solve the problems, under the title "troubleshooters," although I still think "problem solvers" sound even better. A very important one is catching up with former care workers. For this, a social media campaign has also been launched from Extra hands for care. This is also supported by VNO-NCW and AWVN. A campaign has been launched aimed at employers to give people with a care background the space to work in healthcare. The temp agencies look creatively at the search of people. There is also an additional education in the National Care Class. Mbo and Hbo students are asked to join, so that students who see their internship fall silent can also make an extra effort. If there are initiatives from the sector, we will, of course, support them. For example, we also look at foreign care providers. We will talk to hospitals to see if they still have practical questions or objections regarding the use of foreign care providers. Other relevant measures I would like to mention in this context are measures under the BIG. This means that the framework deployment of former care staff has been adapted. It was first the BIG registration of a nurse not practicing which expired after 1 January 2018; this date was extended until 1 January 2016. I would like to continue to inform the Chamber of what further initiatives are being taken in this area. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have also been asked about the health bonus. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has already done so in the previous debate. She also asked questions about this to Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and others. The VVD Group has also raised questions. Maybe it's good to go over the timeline of that healthcare bonus, and where we are and how it's going to go on now, with you. On 17 September the subsidy scheme was published in the Official Journal. It's a well-known fact. Healthcare providers can apply for bonuses to healthcare professionals as of 1 October. These are people who delivered this exceptional performance in the context of corona in 2020. The window is open until 29 October. I'll talk about that later. This gave employers the opportunity to submit an application within four weeks. A lot of information has been published, including hand-outs. Employers' organisations are involved and care organisations have been informed in advance through them. So far, 27 October, a gross grant of 1.48 billion has been applied for. About 7,871 healthcare providers have applied for a total of 788,793 healthcare professionals. That percentage is in line with the expected number of applications. A total of 1.44 billion was reserved for this bonus. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has asked for specific attention for people who were working outside the care organisation. 69.009 bonuses cover third parties. This includeszzp'ers, agency workers and hired cleaners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u490	Then I'm going to see Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u491	I think I was standing here before the minister brought up the bonuses. Before that, she was talking about the staff. Surely it is not true that she devotes four sentences there and then is done with it? All she's said is that a campaign has started. A campaign has been launched! We've been in crisis for seven months. After the first problems, we all knew there could be a second wave coming and what does the minister say she did to get staff? We started a campaign. Of course, you should have done it seven months later. We knew the second corona wave could be coming. What the hell did you do in the meantime? It all comes down to one thing, and that is a total lack of staff. The staff that's in there just came from the first wave. They then had to catch up with the unregular, unplanned care. And before they did, they're back in the second wave. And they're up to the gums of misery and fatigue. What you should have done? You should have made sure there were more people. You've had seven months to do that. And you're just... I have to say, the Minister only comes up with "I started a campaign." Do you know what happens next? The ambulances drive around hospitals with patients who sometimes die of a heart attack because emergency services are closed due to lack of staff. What have you done in the last seven months to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u492	Let me say first of all that I share Mr Wilders' analysis that people in the first wave have worked incredibly hard and are still recovering from it. At the same time, we would like to have a second wave and that makes it different from the first one that a lot of regular care can continue as much as possible. That is difficult enough; I will come back later to talk about it. At the same time, we see a double pressure on hospitals and healthcare organisations. On the one hand there is a faster, earlier influx of people who are ill and on the other there is also a lot of outage among the people who work in the care. We share that analysis. With the anthology of a number of initiatives, I have tried to show what is happening. That's not exhausting. In the context of time, I did not want to read out the letter that was sent about it. But I have previously had an exchange of views with Mr Wilders on whether we can do a number of other things, such as making more hours of work more attractive and ensuring good schedules. Mr Wilders asked whether the LNAZ plan for the use of people in healthcare could be picked up. Can we get people who work in the department to work in the workplace, too? Those are all actions that have been deployed as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u493	I really don't care if you share my analysis. You're a driver, not me. You should have taken care of it by now. Surely it will not be the case that seven or eight months after the first infection in the Netherlands, when everyone knew that after March there could be a second corona wave, we are in the stage of sharing the analysis? It should have been taken care of. People are now being sent home in regular care. There's no room for the ambulance. There's a hospital in The Hague that the driver says they've been working in code black for a few weeks. And what's the reason? Every time it is not a lack of beds, but a lack of care staff. Then what did you do about it? A motion from me was adopted yesterday. It's insane that it still has to be eight months after that. That motion was adopted by 68 votes to 67. I hope at least that the cabinet has the courtesy to carry out that motion. That motion has been adopted and I want to know in concrete terms what you have done with every point of that motion, from higher salary to more part-time workers and more hours, to managers on the workplace, to private clinics, to the LNAZ's plan to employ people with medical training from the armed forces, the army and I know what to do. What did you actually do with that? I asked last time and I still haven't received an answer, not even in the letter. What has actually happened to it, what numbers are involved, what happened to it, how many people have joined?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u494	In any case, I must have said here that, in addition to a number of initiatives being developed, a lot of things have been done, especially in the healthcare sector itself. I'll say something separately later, because I'd like to do it in that context, about the scaling up of ICU and nursing home beds. That wasn't so much in the stuff. The fact that this scaling-up has been realized was mainly in the people. Nevertheless, we now see that that second wave came sooner, faster, different than we expected. So it's not enough. And that means we're gonna have to put all the sails in place right now. The Ministry does this by supporting a number of initiatives, but we also ask the health care organisations themselves for what they need. For example, this is in a number of elements that Mr Wilders indicated, for example the cooperation between the self-employed treatment centres and the hospitals. On the one hand, care may go from a hospital to an independent treatment centre. On the other hand, staff from the self-employed treatment centres may go to hospitals. There's no blueprint for it. It depends on the situation in the region. A lot's happened. And at the same time that is the urgent situation in which we are now, it is worse, faster, different than expected. That means that I always make the link with those measures. Because we can't just solve it from the government. We can't just solve it from care. We will have to do this with 17 million Dutch. All the effort to finally get that curve down, because that's the only thing that's really gonna provide solace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u495	This can make me so angry and despondent. What kind of general death-doers are they? "We're all gonna have to do it." We don't all have to do it. You have to do it! You've been hired as a minister to solve these problems. I don't have to do it. You have to do it. And you should have done it by now. People with severe diseases are now being sent home. They won't get their surgery anymore. Some hospitals have already had to scale down 70% or 80% of their care. That's not just 20%. Those are seriously ill people! I mentioned the examples here last time. And then you come up with: 'We all have to do it' and 'we started a campaign'! Madam President. A motion has been passed by the Chamber. And I ask you again, even if I have to ask you a hundred times: when will we get an overview of all these measures of how many people there are and what exact results have been achieved and when will the rest be achieved? I just want concrete butter with the fish. No generalities like "we all have to do it." How much has been achieved and implemented on each measure? I can ask that with an approved motion in my hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u496	Sure. It is also very common and good that the cabinet responds to the motions. In Mr Wilders' motion, which was adopted yesterday, he asked for a response to today's debate. I did. On the other motion, I have also indicated that I will respond to it and I will do so. There are letters coming to the Chamber about how we deal with all the initiatives in the labour market. Some of the letters that have now been sent have already been recorded. So that's what happens. I will certainly respond to that and, as far as I am concerned, I am quite hands-on myself as concretely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u497	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u498	Well, finally. I'd almost say you're helping me. I'm asking you for the fourth time. I want you not only to respond to all the points of the motion that have been adopted, but to indicate how much has already been achieved, what numbers are included, what still needs to be realized and when that is being achieved. Can I get a commitment from you that I will get those facts and figures from you on this motion that has been passed and if so, when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u499	I will let you know in the second term when that reaction comes and then I will make it concrete. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. I was working on the bonus. I had explained what the proportion of temporary workers was in that. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen said that there are really organisations coming into trouble, but even worse is that the people who work in the care sector are getting into trouble. I too have received reports, especially those who work externally, and those people say: my employer does not do this for me. That's not the point. I found the signal she sent in the previous debate a little premature, but we can now say that on the day before the window was closed those signals are still quite substantial. At the same time, we can see that the applications for grants are still being submitted in full in the last week. I hear from employers that sometimes it is a little extra work to do that for thezzp'ers or the temporary workers. I would therefore like to avoid unnecessary disappointment and to offer employers the opportunity to make the careful assessment that is needed. I specifically call on them to apply for the bonus for people who have worked with them either as a zzp'er or as a flex worker, in accordance with the explicit intention of this scheme. I actually tasted widely in the Chamber, also in the light of the questions asked by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, that everyone is curious about the state of affairs. That is why I would like to extend the opening of the window for a week. Friday November 6th will be the last day. I would like to point out that an application for 29 October also means payment as soon as possible. For a later application, I cannot guarantee that in all cases. I really think it is important for people to have the opportunity to make that application, so I am extending the opening of the window.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u500	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u501	I am pleased that the Minister understands the urgency and extent of the problem. Is a week enough? We are in the middle of the second wave and the healthcare providers indicate that they have more administrative burdens by applying for the healthcare bonus for zzp'ers and for flex workers. Can't the extension be made a little longer? Dozens of organizations have indicated that they are not going to do it. There are also large domes of care, including in Brabant, which say: we have 23 healthcare institutions among us, 900 flex workers andzzp'ers work with us and we are not going to apply for that bonus for them. Do they have enough room with an extra week to do so and to make that assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u502	Yes. It's also a bit of balancing. An organization has to make an effort. An action must be taken. But then it must also be settled, because we want that amount to be included in the accounts at some point in time. I would say, especially for organisations which, given the field in which they work, should be used to doing something of an administrative act, which should be extra space for a week. As far as I'm concerned, we'll keep the window open for a week longer. In any case, that is the consideration I would like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u503	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u504	I think a week is really very short. We're in the middle of the second wave and the healthcare providers say they need more space, because they need all the energy and time to fight that second corona wave. A week's extra time for all these requests? There are 30%zzp'ers working in the care sector. 30% of the care workers arezzp'er. 69.009 bonuses for externals have been requested. You would expect that to be 30% of the total, but that is far from the case. So there are a lot of outsiders who are out of the boat. Again, I'd like to make it a little longer than a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u505	We can see that a lot of requests have been made. I mentioned the numbers. In one third of the cases where a bonus is applied for, it is also applied for for for a third worker, so in that sense those numbers match. Let me put it this way: I thought I was meeting Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen with this. I'll leave it at a week and I think it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u506	Please continue. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u507	This is about another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u508	Oh, very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u509	This one's about the pgb carers. I do not know whether the Minister is going to answer this in the context of the bonus, but I would like to know what the directive is about, because they are not yet in a position to apply for the bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u510	There are two counters for the pgb and the bonus. There is a general point of contact for institutions and pgb care providers employed by a healthcare provider. If a care provider carries out work for a pgb holder, he may qualify for the bonus on the basis of the grant scheme if he fulfils the conditions. That's the usual way of doing things. There will be a second point of contact for pgb care providers who are directly employed by a pgb holder and who are therefore not employed by a healthcare provider, because this care provider carries out work under a care agreement concluded between the pgb care provider and the budget holder. The budget holder will not be a healthcare provider as defined in the grant scheme. That is the problem that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen pointed out. We do have some work to do to shape this scheme, because we need to make a separate impact on the subsidy scheme. This requires a different execution and is assessed by the SVB. We aim to open the application window at the SVB for the bonus for this group in early 2021. I intend to inform you further in the next stand-of-business letter. So the good news is there's gonna be an arrangement. He's not here as fast as we'd like, but he'll get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u511	Please continue. No, Mrs. Van Kooten. I don't want anyone interrupting anymore. It's done. Please continue. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u512	Mrs Van Brenk had asked a question about entrepreneurs who support, for example, daily spending. In any case, I would like to inform her that it doesn't really matter if you are a health care worker at the website of NLvoor each other, which maps out the supply and demand of help. The website for extra hands is actually there for everyone. This may also include employees from other sectors and people trained through the National Care Class. I would love it if entrepreneurs offered these initiatives. Mr. Chairman. Several of your MPs, including Mr Asscher, Mr Heerma and Mr Veldman, have considered the aggression in the care sector. I'd like to dwell on that. They weren't the only ones. That is indeed a much too often published phenomenon in recent times. You could say it's unacceptable at all times, because caregivers have to be safe. I myself have noticed in many personal conversations what it means to people. They feel very different compared to the first wave. The NU91 survey also shows that aggression and intimidation from visitors has even increased. Of course, all kinds of agreements are made from the employer. It is also the responsibility of the employer under the Arbowet to tackle aggression and violence in the workplace. Employers are obliged to develop policies there. We can support them from the government. We have done this with, among other things, the care-wide campaign Be clear about aggression. There is also the Healthy & Sure platform. Perhaps even more important to know that the government is on your side, is that there have also been agreements made with the D.A. and politics. These are clear, national agreements to optimally protect healthcare providers. I know that the willingness to report in care is low, because people often understand very well that someone may not mean it that way. That is indeed the subject of conversation. The employer may, for example, file a report. The D.A.'s office conducts lick-on-piece policy as much as possible and gives priority to the prosecution of aggression and violence against public officials such as caregivers. The sector itself does a lot. We work together with social partners to develop a multi-annual programme on safe and resilient working in health and well-being. I think that this issue should have our continuing attention. I'm sure he got it from me, too. I'm glad this is the same for the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I go to the questions that have been asked in the light of the regular care and the ic-capacity. I think a lot of people are currently worried about their concerns, and about appointments and operations being postponed. That was well expressed in the Chamber today. If you look at what is going on at the hospitals at the moment, Mr Wilders and others have mentioned an example, it is quite understandable that people are worried. At the same time, we see our caregivers in hospitals, in general practitioners and in nursing care. Everyone's working their asses off. There is also a great deal of absenteeism and people who, for example, need to be at home because they or a roommate need to be tested. I have a lot of conversations with the health care organizations. Over the past week, they have been sending out more and more signals that care has come under so much pressure that they have said: more direction has to be given to that. Actually, you don't want to get into the situation where it matters where you live when you're a patient, where you can still have a certain operation in one part of the country and not in the other part of the country anymore. You want a level playing field for the patients, for the caregivers and also for the institutions. That is why we have agreed with the sector. I sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter last Friday. We have made these agreements on the basis that we want to ensure that covid care, but also the acute care, care if, for example, you have had a traffic accident, also the planned acute care, which you need between one and six weeks is guaranteed. A number of agreements have been made on this subject. The National Coordination Centre Patient Spread has been given the opportunity to occupy capacity at hospitals and to say in advance: so many patients are coming to you. It is very important that the Federation of Medical Specialists has created a framework so that doctors can make the assessment that certain care needs to be continued, with particular emphasis on the fact that there is no loss of life years or irreparable health damage. This does not alter the fact that certain concerns are being postponed, which can lead to great inconvenience or even pain, but does not endanger safety. The regulators are also watching over this. I think it is incredibly handsome and important that all the partners in the care that are involved should jointly support the hospitals, the general practitioners, the supervisors and the National Centre for Patients Spread. At the same time, this has also been discussed in the previous debate, and we are looking at whether care for covid patients should be concentrated within regions, perhaps even nationwide, and where more digital care can be used. That's what we do with the whole chain. Mr Wilders and Mr Asscher have also seen reports in the media about ambulances that continue to drive with patients and people who come into situations that we do not want in the Netherlands in 2020. The question is indeed how we deal with it. I know a situation in which a patient died at a hospital in Hilversum. I'm really sorry to hear that. It is important that we find out very carefully what happened there and whether there is a link to the withdrawal stop at the hospital emergency room. This is currently being investigated by the Health and Youth Inspectorate. As far as I understand, there has been no mention of this case, but the IGJ is the supervisor to oversee it. If I look at that case a little more broadly, it's true that in the last few days there have been a lot of temporary withdrawal stops at the emergency services of hospitals. I would like to stress here that it is not necessarily the case that when an emergency aid is closed, there is a stop at the whole organisation. Often it is a signal to the ambulance service that it is too busy somewhere and that it is better to drive to another hospital nearby, which can take care of it. That's something that happens outside of corona time. Even then there are stops. A temporary withdrawal stop does not necessarily mean that the accessibility of the acute care is not in order, but it makes it especially important for me to investigate this case properly. In any case, it has also been a huge motivation to make last Friday's appointments. I think it is of the utmost importance that critical planned care is guaranteed. Mr Baudet asked about capacity. I have included a passage on this in the letter. For the sake of clarity, I refer to that. In that letter I indicate that the scaling-up of the ic is going according to plan. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the role of the general practitioner in the second wave. I think the GP has a crucial role to play. I am also pleased that the general practitioners are involved in the agreements we have made. The general practitioner has not only a pivotal function, but also a signaling role. We see good initiatives in different regions. They are also shared, for example by immediately starting home treatment with an infected patient. Sometimes you can prevent a recording. There are also agreements made with the teachers, the general practitioners, about a balanced influx of patients. If that works, I think you should do the same in the rest of the country. So it really is about cooperation in the care chain. I would like to conclude by saying that it sounds a little bit double because it is very busy in the care that everyone, medical specialists and general practitioners, does not stress again to want the situation of March, when everyone said not to come. Please leave the judgment as to whether you should be seen to the doctor. If in doubt, always contact your doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u513	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u514	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the various directors for answering the questions. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need to increase the current test capacity;]] [[noting that the Minister of VWS has presented a design phaser testing, where there are three test streams, namely via a basic infrastructure, through rapid test streets initiated by employers and later through guided home testing;]] [[Considering that the test chain thus achieves a higher number of reduction locations, with a wider range of types of tests, and thus can serve a larger number of people;]] [[calls on the government to bring the implementation of the various test tracks into one hand and to consider whether business initiatives can continue to grow, while ensuring that there is no competition between the different test streets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-661]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u515	Mr. Chairman. What do you have to do as a parliamentarians to get your proposals realised if even a majority in the Lower House is no longer enough? How can you trust a prime minister when he first says he'll stick to a motion if it's adopted, but then he won't? What does it do with the care workers in the Netherlands who are underpaid and at risk for their own lives doing life-saving and caring crucial work, who are often infected themselves and even sometimes asked to come to work, against all the rules? How do you explain to them that if, after months, there is finally a majority in the House of Representatives for a proposal for a structural and substantial increase in wages, it does not happen because of dirty a-democratic and antisocial games that are being played over their backs? Not, Mr. Chairman, you can't explain that. This is inexcusable, and this can only lead to the withdrawal of confidence in the Prime Minister, who is responsible for this. Hence the next motion, which I would like to make on behalf of my colleague Marijnissen of the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite the adoption of the motion for a structural substantial wage increase for care workers, the government does not provide additional resources in addition to existing policies;]] [[expresses confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-662]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u516	Mr. Chairman. I have a question from the first term which I would like to ask in the second term because at the end of the Minister's varia block I did not feel free to walk forward, because you were so strict on interruptions. That has to do with the sewer water. The minister outlined that it still needs to be standardized for 100,000 inhabitants and that there is a flattening, because it dilutes when it rains. I would like the Minister to explain in the second term how that works in practice and why this flattening is then there. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is preparing a strategy for the time when a vaccine against the coronavirus is available;]] [[noting, however, that this will focus on the question of which target groups should be first vaccinated;]] [[Whereas rapid and efficient vaccination also requires a tight implementation organisation and clear communication;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an implementation strategy for the rapid and rigorous implementation of vaccination of the Dutch population, including a clear communication plan, and to inform the Chamber within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Veldman and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-663]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u517	I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an increasing number of European countries make a negative corona test conditional on entry from countries subject to a negative travel advice and that, inter alia, Italy and Germany cooperate with private parties to this end;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is one of the few countries in Europe where there are currently no tests available at airports for incoming passengers;]] [[calls on the Government to make the presentation of a negative corona test conditional on the entry of the Netherlands from a country subject to a negative travel advice;]] [[calls on the Government also to involve other entry locations at airports and, where appropriate, in the further development of a test infrastructure with rapid test streets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still a real risk of strengthening the corona measures;]] [[Whereas people should then be able to continue to buy food;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that, in addition to supermarkets, stricter corona measures allow other shops selling food to remain open, such as bakeries, groceries, fish shops, butchers, drugstores and liquor stores,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-664]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-665]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u519	Mr Asscher will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf to make every effort now to keep the schools as open as possible. I hope that the Prime Minister will fully support Mr Michel's words in the teleconference with European leaders tomorrow: the EU must also become a union of testing, apps and vaccines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u520	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u521	Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas effective source and contact research is a crucial part of the strategy to control the corona virus;]] [[Whereas each of the 25 GGDs has its own working methods, which means that the additional staff involved cannot do their job properly;]] [[invites the Cabinet to standardise the source and contact research, with where necessary space for customization, for the various GGDs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mink farms are reservoirs of corona and that no tightening of measures has led to less infected holdings;]] [[Whereas mink is a major threat to public health and the mink farming is banned in 2021;]] [[Whereas in November the peeling period is the standard end of the production cycle;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the sector has completed its work by 15 November 2020 at the latest and that no mink is kept in mink breeding from that point on,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Veldman, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-666]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-667]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u522	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that yesterday the Cabinet presented a supplement to the third aid and recovery package, which focuses mainly on support for businesses;]] [[Whereas many people who have lost their income are likely to be in trouble because they are outside existing schemes;]] [[believes that as far as possible, people should be prevented from falling into poverty and/or getting problematic debts;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to continue discussions with social partners on support for people who have lost their income through corona (crisis income) and to return the results to the Chamber for the Social Affairs budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-668]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u523	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u524	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is giving caregivers a slap in the face. The first blow we had here last summer, when after the massive applause in the first corona peak, the coalition chamber members took off not to vote on the motion. Yesterday, after so many debates, we finally had an adopted motion that arranged for the salary of caregivers to go up. Then there was a second blow to the face of caregivers. The cabinet said: we're putting that motion next to us. Mr. Chairman. We find this irresponsible and unacceptable. It is unacceptable for all those caregivers who have pulled us through that first peak and which we are all looking at again. They need us and expect more from us. We think it's irresponsible, too. It is irresponsible to see how large the staff shortages are. We've got surgeries being called off and emergency services closing down. Caregivers fall through their hooves because the workload is so high. Care is being scaled down. It's irresponsible. We need a lot more colleagues. A better appreciation helps. Mr. Chairman. In times of crisis, more democracy is needed. If we see a cabinet rejecting a proposal that has been democratically adopted, it will stop once and for all. That is our reason for submitting the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u525	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA. Mrs. Agema, you coughed. That wasn't a meter and a half. It's really on your neck. Those drops are flying through the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u526	I believe everyone is relatively well. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet continues in an extremely risky course, with which one continues to steer on care capacity, while it has already been tried to the utmost. This means that more infections and more sick people are at risk, but also major consequences for the economy. Yesterday, in a press release, it was decided that the catering, culture and events should be closed until December, but it turned out that this was not necessary. Then the letter says it has to, but Rutte says it doesn't have to again. This way, of course, does not help to maintain confidence in the way this crisis is handled. That is essential, because we are far from there. The Labour Party is in favour of choosing a different strategy, reducing the number of infections as far as possible as quickly as possible. For that, it helps to adopt the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many teachers, parents and pupils are deeply concerned about the number of infections in schools;]] [[Whereas educational deficits are increasing;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a concrete action plan on how schools can be open in a safe manner, including guidelines on how to use rapid testing in education, a roadmap on what degree of contamination should be taken which measures should be taken to ensure that education is continued and how to minimise educational disadvantages and other harm to children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-669]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u527	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for answering all the questions. It has just been mentioned: is a different strategy conceivable than is currently being proposed by the cabinet? After this morning's technical briefing, I understand very well that a choice has now been made. The question that is really on the table is whether it is enough. I've been debating that. I also understand that additional measures will be taken next week, and perhaps already this week, or not. We don't know yet. For my group, it is extremely important that this is clear, transparent and well-founded. I heard that commitment right. I'd like to hold the cabinet to that. I have one motion and then one final comment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not all pgb care can currently be provided for health reasons;]] [[noting that until 1 July an arrangement had been put in place to pass on non-provided pgb care, but that a similar arrangement had been lacking since then;]] [[Whereas this leads to the absence of income from care providers and the risk of endangering the continuity of care for pgb recipients;]] [[calls on the Government to re-open the non-provided pgb-care scheme in all health care laws in the very short term and to consider how it may apply retroactively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-670]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u529	Saturday is Reform Day. Then the Prime Minister will hold the Protestant Lecture on the good life. I am very curious about his view of the role of churches in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u530	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u531	Thank you, Mr President. The VWS Minister said that in his next letter he will return to the promised approach to zoonoses. I think that's very wise. The Prime Minister will have a video conference tomorrow with other European Heads of Government on how to get us out of this crisis as soon as possible. But he forgot to raise the fur farm, so I'm wondering when he's gonna do that. I suggest that the questions that we have asked and the answers that the VWS Minister will give are well understood. The mutations in fur breeding, which then pass to people, are simply very dangerous. Mr President, one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that virologists point out that the fur industry may have been the missing link in jumping the corona virus from animal to human in China, with an explicit role for the breeding of raccoon dogs, and that fur breeding causes mutations that may be insensitive to the vaccines currently being developed;]] [[noting that this coronabont is still being imported, particularly as a fur collar, and that we are thereby helping to maintain an industry which poses a major threat to public health;]] [[calls on the Government to promote an import ban on fur and fur products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-671]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u532	Then I wish the Cabinet much strength in its work. They work hard. That's what needs to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u533	You too. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both the threat of the corona virus and the measures against it can have a major impact on people's well-being, and there is a worrying increase in stress, anxiety and loneliness;]] [[Whereas the social consequences will increase as the measures last longer;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to make it clear how the most recent insights into social impacts are taken into account in decision-making on (expanding) corona measures;]] [[more prominent attention to these impacts in crisis communication;]] [[in consultation with municipalities to see how (mental) well-being of people can be increased,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the pressure on hospital care is rising due to a large increase in corona patients;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the aim is to increase ic capacity and clinical capacity, but there is uncertainty as to whether this can actually be achieved;]] [[Whereas it is important to ensure that, in addition to care for corona patients, regular hospital care is provided as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to draw up, within four weeks in consultation with healthcare professionals, a plan to focus on corona care in a limited number of hospitals in each ROAZ region, in the event of further increases in hospital admissions;]] [[in consultation with, inter alia, general practitioners, home care, care services and the nursing home sector, to consider initiatives or additional initiatives to provide care to patients with corona outside the hospital, both in (temporary) care locations and in the home situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Staaij, Marijnissen, Dik-Faber, Pieter Heerma and Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-672]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij and Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-673]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. The first is about the methodology of the GGD for the source and contact research. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the method of analysis within the source and contact research has not been sufficiently standardised, thus losing time;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the working method within the source and contact investigation is sufficiently standardised within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the policy on mouth and nose mask use in healthcare institutions is unclear in the RIVM guidelines;]] [[calls on the Government to correct the oral nose mask policy in healthcare institutions by having at least surgical mouth masks of type II or IIR in all healthcare establishments and patients with COVID-19 FFP2,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that in the future there should never be a direct or indirect corona vaccination obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-674]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-675]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-676]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u536	Finally, Mr President. We talked about communication, and I actually saw that went wrong right away. Mr Van der Staaij spoke of a gorilla crossing a football field and the Prime Minister made it a bear walking across a football field. I hear "volleyball field" from the hall now. So you see, I didn't remember it very well either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u537	Speaking of communication! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u538	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u539	Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u540	Mr. Chairman. Some people see bears on the road, as it turns out. However, I would like to comment on the report in the newspaper that employees must continue to work and be put under pressure by employers. And yes, I understand the despair when 20 out of 28 employees are sick. But people cannot and must not be put under pressure. COVID-19 is a deadly disease for vulnerable people. These people and their families must be able to trust that they are not put at risk. But also the employees should not be affected that people die because these employees were forced to work. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering signals from FNV that some employees still have to work despite a positive corona test;]] [[considering that care workers come into contact with vulnerable people, who we want to protect from corona as best we can;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to prevent employers from using care workers infected with the corona virus, through alternatives, if necessary military deployment;]] [[invites the Government to report to the Chamber on this for the next Corona debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-677]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u542	Thank you. I do not see Mr Baudet. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. No, Krol. I'm going to see Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u543	Madam President. I welcome the cautious commitment that the cabinet wants to look again at restaurants with sufficient space, where it has invested in corona measures and ventilation, so places where it is safer than in many people's homes. To record that, this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a possible extended lockdown has been announced for the catering industry;]] [[Whereas this will be the death blow for many entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas hotels and hotel-restaurants may remain open;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether restaurant owners who set up their case of coronaproof can be exempted from the lockdown,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-678]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u544	Thanks to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u545	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u546	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands ofzzp, flex-working and pgb carers risk losing the €1,000 health bonus;]] [[Whereas it should not matter for the purpose of receiving the healthcare bonus through which type of contract or assignment care providers have worked;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure thatzzp, flex-working and pgb care providers are also eligible for the €1,000 net healthcare bonus, to extend the application period until 30 November 2020 and to actively communicate with healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-679]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u547	Mr. Chairman. The first motion is about increasing the reliability of the PCR test. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a high risk of false positives in the PCR test at low prevalence;]] [[Whereas the consequences of false positive tests are enormous;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to increase the reliability of the PCR test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-680]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u548	The second motion concerns an investigation into realistic ic capacity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a problem with ic capacity in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, for example, Germany maintains a structural increase in its ic capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what realistic ic capacity should be for the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-681]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u549	I would very much like to amend the motion I have just tabled because Mr Van Weyenberg would have liked to be included. Of course, I'm not gonna let that go. So I want to change the signature. It will be the motion-Ouwehand/Klaver/Van Weyenberg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u550	Good. Then we add Mr Van Weyenberg's name. 21 motions have been tabled. "We do need 15 minutes," I hear the Prime Minister say. We did agree to stop at 11:00. And we are also going to vote on Mr Wilders' motion, I understand. Is everyone okay with that? Then that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u551	I do not need a roll-call vote on the motion of censure right now. Everyone is here anyway, so I don't need a roll-call vote now, otherwise we can do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u552	Tomorrow we will have no votes, so it will be next week. Or tonight. You guys go ahead and prepare the motions. We're gonna see how we're gonna fix this first. Let's do it tonight, right after, because it's just one motion. Then that's what we've been through. Is everyone okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u553	As far as I'm concerned, we don't have to vote on it if the Prime Minister is to quit already, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u554	I knew you'd make such a comment! Thank you. I'll suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u555	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u556	Mr President, thank you. We had two more questions and a number of motions. A question which was still open, from Mr Asscher, I would also like to link with the response to his motion on education. So then there's one point left that doesn't relate to the motions: the offerings of the churches. That was a question from Mrs Dik-Faber. At the beginning of the corona crisis, a collaboration was established between the PKN Churches, Stichting Present, the Evangelical Broadcasting and a lot of other organisations to provide help and support to people at local level. In the context of the Action Programme One against loneliness at that time, VWS has been in intensive contact and has explored further cooperation, including within the framework of that programme. During the first wave, there was weekly contact with #Not only to hear what questions came to the helpline and how they were picked up. In addition, VWS has offered to provide financial support to, among other things, the helpline and they also had ideas for an SMS service. Furthermore, VWS has highlighted the initiative in several ways: in municipalities, on the website of the Action Programme One against loneliness, through the stand-of-business letters to the Chamber, through news flashes and with the quarantine guide issued by the GGD in corona tests. What else will VWS do? There is a discussion with the parties of the initiative #Not only and also with other voluntary organisations. That's scheduled for next week. That is the implementation of the Segers motion. VWS is going to see how together we can better match the offer of volunteer organisations and churches to the local aid demand. Stichting Present and the churches can join the local coalitions against loneliness at local level, which are now in the process of being with 210 municipalities. That's two thirds of all the municipalities. So I think a lot is happening, in addition to what I said in the first term. Mr President, then there are the motions. I think I'm not supposed to advise on the motion in part No. 662 of the PVV. Then the motion to part No. 665 on keeping the grocery stores open. I think it is a little too detailed now, but if I may interpret her in such a way that the idea is 'if you keep the supermarkets open, you must make sure that smaller shops providing essential necessities remain open', as far as I am concerned, it is Chamber's opinion. I'll give you that interpretation, which narrows the motion a little bit. Then the motion to part No. 668 van GroenLinks. We talk to the social partners all the time and all the time. We also have an eye for the people who fall between shore and ship. That is why there is extra money for work to work and money to prevent poverty and debt, but a crisis income is really a big issue in implementation, and that is why I must discourage this motion. I also refer to previous debates on this issue. Then I come to the motion on part No. 669 of the Labour Party. It also depends on the question that was still open, so I have to think about that. First, Mr Asscher's question from the first term. First of all, I should like to point out that I do not want it to linger in the air that this question creates the picture that schools are not safe. I'm not saying he says that, but you could get that picture in our exchange of views. That is not what the Outbreak Management Team advises and it does not do justice to the measures that have already been taken. The Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, BVOM, makes ongoing agreements with the education sector to give practical shape to the RIVM guidelines in the school. If the rules are tightened, they will also be updated immediately. These are comprehensive and clear guidelines for schools. The service document was created by OCW. Its elaboration is set out in the Protocols of the PO Council and the VO Council, both for the adoption of measures and for the treatment of infections. The service document for education and the protocols of the sectors themselves are very practical in nature, so in practice these are specific action plans. If we can make it even more action-oriented, if the sector itself asks for it, then that will also be done on the initiative and on the minister's intercession. However, it is important that the existing measures are properly respected, including at school. That is what Minister Slob is consulting with the social partners, and we are going to make an extra effort on that. Then I'll get to the motion. As I said, there is constant consultation with the Minister, and that ultimately also leads to the elaboration of the protocols of the two primary and secondary education councils through the service document. This also provides an insight into the specific action plans. This will keep our schools and teachers as safe as possible. We're gonna keep that finger on the wrist. If the contagion rates call for additional steps at regional or national level, then we will take them, with the subjects mentioned by Mr Asscher being explicitly taken into account. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can leave her judgment room. If Mr Asscher were to say 'I also want a centralised roadmap for education', I would not want to go along with that, because it does not do justice to the local situation and also to the excellent role that the GGD plays in that local situation. Maybe I can add two more comments. Firstly, the use of rapid tests is now being investigated. It examines where it has the most added value. There will also be an OMT opinion on this. So that addition can only be made later. A second additional remark: we want to keep schools open safely, but we cannot exclude any measure at the moment to combat the pandemic. So we cannot guarantee that schools will always remain open. I would like to make these two comments on the motion. But if I may interpret her as I just said, then as far as we're concerned, it's Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u557	A brief comment on the motion, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u558	A lot of schools and teachers really have a different perception than what the Prime Minister has just outlined. I do not fight at any time that there is permanent contact, but the service document and the protocols associated with it often do not answer the practical questions that schools are struggling with. An action plan that provides for this and also helps schools to respond to infections at or around the school is really necessary and really useful. This is not contrary to the intentions of the cabinet, but can ensure that schools are safe for longer. So I'm not saying all schools are unsafe. You can see that Van Dissel also confirmed this morning that there are also many infections through the schools. In order to prevent it from becoming a black and white discussion, I understand that you cannot guarantee that they will remain open, it would be worth coming up with an additional action plan. This does not mean that everything is centralised; that is not possible at all in education. But that's what the motion asks. It does not ask for a guarantee that they never close, because if it is necessary, it is necessary, but it does require additional action on top of the service document to help schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u559	This will really be a further centralisation, a centralised roadmap. I do not think that does justice to the role of the Health Service. Perhaps otherwise we can resolve it in such a way that I ask Arie Slob, the Minister of BVOM, to write what I have just said in a letter to the Chamber, and that Mr Asscher continues the motion until that letter lands here and possibly discuss with him where the last differences remain. I am not personally involved in this matter every day; I cannot do that. But the way I interpret it now, looking at it with a little distance, a lot is happening. In practice, these are specific action plans which are the result of these protocols, because they are very practical in nature. So I'm just trying to figure out where the difference is. We are not going to get out of that now, because that is also where my practical knowledge and experience are lacking. I'm just afraid that if I said yes to that right now... There I'm really hospitable, really hesitant...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u560	We're gonna vote on Tuesday. Is it possible to do it before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u561	Yeah, I can try to try to do that. Let me try to make that work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u562	I think it would be better to suspend the pre-advisation until Tuesday, because to hold the motion now... We're in a hurry, so we want to put her to the vote on Tuesday. Then we'll wait and see what kind of pre-advisation the cabinet comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u563	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u564	My pre-advisation is Court of Justice, with this interpretation. But if Mr Asscher's request is really a detailed, centralised roadmap...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u565	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u566	...I'll have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u567	Oh. Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u568	Then I'm gonna tip her off. To avoid that, my proposal is to hold the motion for a moment. Slob then sends a letter in which he goes into more detail about what I just outlined here. Otherwise, I'm really gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u569	I was trying to get out. Then the Prime Minister said: I have to think longer about that; I am not in this matter every day. That's fine. As far as I am concerned, the motion will be put to the vote on Tuesday. So I'll hold her until Tuesday, but then she'll be in the mood. I've heard "judge chamber." If the Prime Minister feels otherwise after consulting the Minister of Education, I'll hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u570	No, it's Judgment Chamber with my interpretation. Just as sharp, guys, otherwise we're gonna have the same discussion as about the motion on healthcare salaries. I interpret the motion. Mr Asscher actually says to me: no, I interpret her differently. If I focus on the discussion we had a minute ago, he says: I really want more centralization, more central control of those action plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u571	No, the word "centralization" is a word the Prime Minister uses here. I just said it doesn't have to be central at all. But I did say that more action is needed than is currently the case, and schools have a different perception of the service document than the Prime Minister is describing here. So my interpretation of that motion, partly on behalf of D66, is that there should be more help for those schools. Whether that is central or decentralised... Quick tests play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u572	Then let me do it this way. It's Court of Justice, with due regard for the interpretation I gave. I am listening to what Mr Asscher has to say about this. I note that that service document originates or leads to protocols of the PO Council and VO Council itself, i.e. from the field. The GGDs are involved in this. I think that's how we're gonna do it. Heard the whole discussion judgment room. Then we look at what this means in practice to further strengthen in terms of action-orientedness. The motion in part No. 672 of Mr Van der Staaij has, as far as I am concerned, a Chamber. The state-of-the-art letter will highlight how these social consequences are weighed. The National Core Team Crisis Communication will highlight these consequences prominently. With municipalities there is a structure for dealing with loneliness. This will also include the request on well-being. The quarantine approach is also under discussion. All in all, judgment room. I would like to ask Mr Krol his motion in part No. 678 to be retained. We are looking at how this OMT advice can be further developed with regard to the restaurants. It's not that easy. That really has to be done first. This is like opening the restaurants almost tomorrow, so you can't. If he puts the motion to the vote, it is not advisable, but I would therefore ask him to hold the motion until we continue working on that part of the OMT opinion. If the motion is put to the vote on Tuesday, I'd like to dissuade him for the sake of safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u573	The motion doesn't ask for it to be carried out tomorrow. The motion asks to see it. So that could take a while. I'd like to hold the motion, but for the same reason, we can just put him to the vote. I'm not asking you to do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u574	When the motion is put to the vote, my interpretation is that Mr Krol refers to the exact implementation of the OMT opinion. I'm warning you that that's really complicated. Given that fact: judge Chamber, even if the motion is put to the vote on Tuesday, but with that interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u575	I now give the floor to the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u576	Mr President, thank you. I have a number of motions and one more question. First of all, the motion in part No. 661 of the VVD on the execution of the test tracks in one hand. I would like to make one comment. The government is requested to bring the implementation of the various test tracks into one hand. It is about the direction of implementation, referring to the debate we have had. If I may read the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion Heerma in part No. 663 on the development of a strategy for vaccination and to inform the Court of Justice of this. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 664 of D66. It calls on the government to make the presentation of a negative corona test conditional on the entry of the Netherlands from a country where a negative travel advice applies. In addition, the test structure should be further developed with rapid tests and so on. I would like to make a number of comments. The first is that I really want to discuss this with my colleague from IenW. That's one. Two is that I'd like to see if it's possible. So I would like to examine it, but please note that the OMT is critical about it, especially that a negative rapid test on entry could be a substitute for quarantine, as Germany does. A quick test has really not enough expressive force for this, especially if it has to be applied asymptomaticly. In addition, fast test streets at Schiphol Airport and train stations, for example, must have sufficient capacity. We also need to know whether it has sufficient added value for asymptomatic travellers. Sure, I'm gonna get on it, but it's not something that just stands there for a second. There are quite a few comments to make. But I'm gonna get to work on that investigation. So judge Chamber, if I may explain it like that. The motion in part No. 666 asks the cabinet to standardise the source and contact research, with room for customization where necessary. In particular, I think that this addition is important. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 667 is requested to close mink farms by 15 November at the latest. We have taken a decision that mink farming will end as soon as possible. A bill has also been announced. This is being prepared as a matter of urgency. Until then, we're clearing infected farms. In short, we do everything we can to prevent contamination. On this motion, I'm gonna let... no, I'm gonna dissuade this motion because we're already doing it. If things go wrong in the pre-advisation, of course things go wrong. I advise against this motion. That was just about right. Then there is the motion of the Christian Union in part No. 670. I ask you to hold that motion because we are talking about all these arrangements. I really want to have the opportunity to coordinate the various arrangements for care in kind and for pgb. I therefore ask Mrs Dik-Faber to hold the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u577	I'm prepared to hold the motion. I'd like to get an update in the next progress letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u578	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (25295, No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u579	Yeah, I'd be happy to. The motion in part No. 671 of the Animal Party asks for an import ban on fur. The production of fur is permitted in the EU. A European trade and import ban on fur does not seem feasible because of WTO rules. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 674 of DENK. It seems to be asking the same question as the earlier motion by GroenLinks, but it is still different. The motion calls for this to be done within two weeks, but that ignores reality. Besides, I don't see any room for customization here anymore. I think this is unwise, because regional organisations such as the GGD should keep room for tailor-made work within a greater standardisation, because that is what we sometimes are, and we are more uniform. I'm going to discourage the motion in this form. The motion in part No. 676 does not require vaccination. I have said this so many times that this is really an unnecessary motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u580	That's a "the Chamber pronounces."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u581	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u582	You have a point. Suppose I would be asked to think with you anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u583	No, that wasn't asked. Then we'll move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u584	The motion in part No. I'm going to dissuade 680 because this is yet another motion on the reliability of the PCR test. Globally, the PCR test is considered to be the most reliable test available. I have one more question, Mr Heerma's question about the apparent increase in virus particles in the sewage water. I have already told the Chamber a number of times that this system really needs to be fully rehearsed. We now check the sewage water at a lot of sewage treatment plants. That gives a pretty complete picture, but what that means exactly in relation to the level of infection and the number of positive tests, really still needs to be learned. In addition, there is a need for a correction on rainwater, because that dilutes. Next Tuesday we can already say more about how that relationship is exact. A correction must also be made to the breakdown per 100,000 inhabitants. So we have work to do before we can draw any conclusions. I would ask you to await this further work before you draw any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u585	Yes. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u586	I still have an answer to my question when the Deloitte report on the NVWA was known to the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u587	That's what my colleague Van Ark is about to bring up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u588	Thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u589	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for this debate. I do indeed have one more question open to me from Mrs Ouwehand. The question is when the Deloitte report was known. The Second Chamber letter was sent on 16 October. The main report was finalised on 20 March and the annex of Deloitte was finalised on 21 September. The Deloitte study has been sent to the Lower House together with the rethinking of the NVWA and the process has been delayed by the taking-up of the interim-ig. However, the rethinking and task analysis are linked and VWS and LNV are closely involved in the preparation of the report. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motions. Mr Van der Staaij's motion for a resolution 673 on care for covid patients. This motion adds to what we are already doing a good suggestion to organise covid care for when the growth in the number of patients would increase even further. What I welcome is that Mr Van der Staaij is calling for concentration to be organised in or near existing hospital infrastructure, because there is no need for separate corona hospitals in the sector. I think it is a very good idea to work this out further with care parties. I'm giving this motion judgment room. For the motion in part No. 675 by Mr Azarkan on surgical masks in care I refer to a letter I have recently sent to the Chamber. I have said that in the medical science process the directive is being drawn up, which is being translated by the sector, professional organisations and employee representation. This has been done and hand-outs have been prepared for the proper use of mouth nose masks. I have indicated that it is not the role of the government to make that translation, but that I agree with it because now preventive use is seen as appropriate, unless someone makes a professional consideration of not doing it. Since it's not up to the government, I advise against this motion. Then there is Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 677 that's about infected care workers. Let me be very clear: if you've tested positive for corona, you're just not allowed to work. The situation outlined during the debate was about suspicion and that in such a case someone could be called upon in extreme circumstances, provided safety can be guaranteed. This motion is about a positive corona test. Mrs. Van Brenk wants to deploy the army. I'm very much in favour of that, but maybe we can add the IGJ here. If I can replace the army with the IGJ, the Health and Youth Inspectorate, I can give him judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u590	I love a man in uniform, of course, but I can live with this. In the short suspension I asked if NLfor each other is known to people from the catering and events sector. It's completely unknown. That is why I am asking if the Minister can do something about those affected sectors so that this phenomenon, this website, becomes more known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u591	I like to pick up that glove. Then I have the Van Kooten-Ariës motion in part No. 679. After I said that I would keep the window open at her insistence for a week longer, she asked for a longer extension. I really think a week is enough. The window is now open for a month and it will be extended for a week. I advise against this motion. In his motion, Mr Van Haga asks for item No. 681 to the realistic ic capacity. That research was done by looking together with the field at which scaling up is needed. That's not just in stuff. We have enough stuff... but most of all in staff. This plan is already in progress, and so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u592	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u593	I can argue a few words about why a week is too short, namely that the Minister said by saying that the application for the health allowance for the caregivers who work through a care institution should be made through the care institution. They've only known this for a week and a half. I would like to give the Minister a little credit so that we can sit on half, but that week is really too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u594	I've explicitly applied all the stretch I have and I've really come to a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u595	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u596	Of course, I also read those different answers to the questions in last night's letter. There is speculation about 3,000 ic-beds and 1,700 ic-beds. I understand that not all of that is feasible. The motion is asking to see what an optimal or stable number of ic-beds in, say, peacetime is. We also have an army and that army has a certain size, even if we're not at war. So the point is that we now have 1,150 ic-beds and we had 2,200 in 2015. What is a realistic number of ic-beds? This motion is asking for a quiet investigation. So I'm not asking how many we can have if we scale up now. No. What is an optimal number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u597	Historically, the ic-capacity, at least the occupation, is quite constant. I also had an exchange of views with Mr Van Haga on this subject in a previous debate. Now we see that a scaling up is needed in connection with covid. But normally, if you look over the years, there's the same number of people on the ic. So that's basically our standard. We are now in an exceptional situation. That is why we are scaling up, and for that, together with the sector, the plan has been made. But I do not see any added value in determining the ideal ic-capacity, because what it is in normal times, we already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u598	I'm surprised. If you knew that so well, we'd still have more ICU beds than we have now. We now have 1,150, and that is clearly not enough. We now have a lack of capacity, so we run into the capacity of the ic-beds. So I think it would be more than useful, as the motion asks, to look at what would be the right number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u599	Normally the beds are available, but a bed, with people next to it, doesn't leave you empty if those people can also work in another department. So there is a regular capacity. It's gonna be most of the time. I'm just talking about outside corona time. In corona time, of course, it is largely used. In addition, a plan has been made, consisting not only of items but also of people: 1,350 beds on 1 October, with a scale up to 1 January to 1,700 beds. That scaling-up's going on. But outside of corona time we see a stable number of people on the ic over the years. We cannot simply compare the Netherlands with Germany, because we have a different system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u600	We're really talking past each other, aren't we? I'm not talking about now, and covid, and how much we can scale now. What I'm talking about is this: if it's just normal again, what would be the optimal amount of ic-beds? That seems to be a relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u601	But you have a motion, and we are going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u602	Then I fall back on the historical line that shows the same number over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u603	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Van Haga! In quarantine! Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u604	Going well, Mr. Chairman. I would have an answer from the Minister to the question when I would receive a letter containing the facts on the motion adopted yesterday. It doesn't have to be now, given the time, but I'd like a letter, and I'd like you to indicate when we'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u605	Mr Wilders is right: I promised him that for the second term. Excuse me. I'll do this for you if that's okay with you. I can send a note tomorrow when you can expect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u606	Fine. Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-6.u607	On the motions tabled, with the exception of Mr Wilders' motion, we are going to vote next Tuesday. I think everyone's assuming we're voting on your motion now, Mr. Wilders. Is everyone willing to do that? Let's vote now.
