ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66 for her question on action against homophobia. The question is addressed to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sunday 17 May was the international day against gay and transphobia. Exactly 30 years before that, the World Health Organisation decided not to officially label homosexuality as a disease anymore. So that wasn't even that long ago. It is a good thing that we are discussing this every year. It is important that people can be visible themselves, not only on one day, but on all the days of the year. However, we see an increase in notifications and declarations of discrimination. On the street we see that Ihbtis no longer dare to walk hand in hand. We saw recently that Fabio and Daniel were even attacked twice in Amsterdam. I talked to Daniel. The impact is really huge. On the Internet we also see a lot of hurtful and disgusting statements. My group chairman showed in a video on Sunday how he's being scolded on a daily basis. I hate that and I don't think it's normal. This also applies to all my other colleagues who are getting all kinds of offensive and hateful comments. Mr. Chairman. We must never ignore that and always speak out against hatred, as against anti-Semitism and other discrimination. D66 thinks we should do more. We have a responsibility to keep people safe on the streets. We see that crimes of discrimination are often difficult to prove. Words like "faggot" and "cancer gay" are also often seen as normal speaking language, even in courtrooms. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the Public Prosecutor's Office and police on how to tackle this discrimination more firmly in the streets and on the Internet? Mr. Chairman. The latest research in the field of homo-discrimination took place in 2009. I think it is time for a new investigation to find out more about the perpetrators: the perpetrators on the street, but also the perpetrators on the internet. I therefore hope that this Minister will give us a commitment to such a national inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Any kind of hatred of Ihbtis is flagrantly contrary to our society. We are based on equality and respect, a respect for what makes each of us unique or different in his personality. As a result, we have a strong rule of law. I repeat that and I keep repeating it, because unfortunately we see that events such as Pride, the discussion of Coming Out Day and................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's why I'm really committed to an approach on that point. We have recently expanded the capacity of the National Expertise Centre Discrimination of the Public Prosecutor with structural 2.5 fte, so that we can pick up more of these types of cases. With the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, we are currently in conversation to get the process of reporting and reporting much stronger than we are now. We have set up the Pink in Blue network with the police to keep in close contact with the target group, with the victims and with the municipalities with all parties. At EU level, in the wake of the discussion on terrorist content online, I encouraged us to tackle the hate speech to Ihbti much harder. Mr. Chairman. I already had a conversation on 4 June, and I'm afraid to say it again: 4 juno with the police and Pink in Blue, because I was shocked by another couple of incidents of violence with two homosexual couples. I thought: I really need to see if things are going well and where we can offer even more protection. In the short term, I intend to work together with the interest groups and the police and to see how we can better highlight the issue of discrimination in a Community crime. I will keep your Chamber informed of the progress made on this. I would like to say right now that we are going to update that investigation into the perpetrators of violence against Ibtis. To my great regret, that is urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	I welcome the two commitments made by the Minister and the fact that he is making a clear statement, that there will be an investigation and that he will talk to the Public Prosecutor and the police. The minister knows me and the battle of D66. We believe that even more needs to be done when it comes to the specialized detectives. We'd really like a pilot. There's an investigation from the WODC, but why don't we try it out to see if it helps and if this way we can get more convictions? This also applies to more specialization in case law. Does the Minister want to talk to see if more cases can be clustered in the area of discrimination, so that there will be more knowledge? The same goes for the parquets. There are officers with discrimination as a specialty, but not everywhere. My question to the Minister is therefore: will he once again reflect on more specialisation in that whole chain? Let's talk about the hate choirs on the Internet. I think it is very good that the Minister reports on this every year. But it is more important that the Minister has sufficient instruments to deal with those perpetrators. Often you see that messages are removed from the Internet. That is very good and important, but I think it would be good if we could do something when it comes to the perpetrators, because ultimately it's about the fact that people can be visible themselves. Their personal freedom is the most important thing, so I think we should make an extreme effort to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	I fully endorse the latter. Let me put that in front of you. So the last thing I'm gonna do is take the lead. About those specialized detectives. Of course, we have talked about this more often. I think it is most important that we get the expertise in this area widely disseminated in the police. Of course, I've worked that out with the police. We do this through the networks Divers Vakmanschap. That is precisely where I am being taught and the transfer of knowledge takes place, so that every cop on the street really recognizes what it is all about. One of the, I think rightly, complaints from people from the Ihbti community, but also from people who have been discriminated against for other reasons or who have been accused of discriminatory backgrounds and I do not know what became of them, was that something really had to be done about recognizing them in my services and understanding them. However, the detection of discrimination does not require any other investigative approach. What is important is that people in the police and other services simply understand exactly what this is about and how to deal with it in a first contact. We're definitely gonna bet on that. By the way, I also remain in conversation with Pink in Blue on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	Again, I am pleased with the two commitments, but still about those specialized detectives. Because the WODC report doesn't show that it doesn't work. I think the Minister can confirm that. My question is therefore: why don't we try it in one city? What do we have to lose in that? We could just do a pilot. I think the Minister and I have in common that we do have something to do with certain experiments, so let's see if we can do an experiment on this subject as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	For the sake of the order of the sitting, I would like to say that I do not hope that Mr Bergkamp would want to link that one experiment with another, because we would then have specialised hash smoking detectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	Good. At least it's going well. That's what we can say. But back to this point. Look, I would certainly like to talk to your Chamber about this again, also on the basis of that last WODC report, because we haven't really gotten to it yet. But the point is that no very clear added value has been given. My conviction is that it is very important to lay down the concept of that equal society, including among the perpetrators. Your personality is your own. That has to be respected by someone else, which is what this is all about. That's very important. But then we're gonna have to lay down with my cops and detectives how they recognize what kind of problem is going on. I have really studied the detective skills, but the experts at the Police Academy do not say that this requires very special, other investigative qualities. I would certainly like to discuss it further with your Chamber at a later stage. I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. I'm glad there's still an opening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kikk, then to Mr Jasper van Dijk and then to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	It does require a joint investment, because we talk about hatecrime in this house every time, so hate against lhbti'ers, but also anti-Semitism. Hatecrime always turns out to be very difficult to deal with. If you follow up on the report, all kinds of recommendations will be made. Ten years after the introduction of gay marriage, it appears that many recommendations have still not been followed. We still don't have any good tests. We still don't have good registration systems. We still don't have any specialist inspectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	We still do not have scientifically-based prevention programmes. Nice words, nice ones, but what does it do in practice? Especially when you know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	What's the question, Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	The couple that was attacked for the second time was not allowed to report it immediately. That lasted five days. How serious are our words,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	...if we can't guarantee even that basis for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	On that last point, this was also the reason why I would like to have that conversation with the corps leadership and with Pink in Blue. It is not really up to me to respond immediately to every incidental matter, you know that, and you understand that, but I did find reason to go to the table with those parties and see if we are doing well and what things might have to be done differently. I would also like to report to your Chamber on this. Then there is Mrs Kuik's first point. I am certainly prepared to see if any of the recommendations made at the time in connection with gay marriage, as far as they lie in my field, are still open and to bring that to the attention of other colleagues. Anyway, of course, there are a number of things that lie in other departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	Violence against homosexuals is disgusting and I sincerely hope that the perpetrators will be arrested and punished as soon as possible. I also often discuss this with your colleague, the Minister for Emancipation, and we are also talking about the prevention of homo-discrimination and homo-violence. We are talking about schools where sexual education and lessons on sexual diversity should be given. Well, there are schools that say they don't want to give it at all. That seems to me to be absolutely the wrong way forward. Does the Minister share that opinion? Does he also intend to look at this in that study, or to inform us about how those schools are addressed who refuse to go into this with their students?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	I will really have to pass this question on to my colleague, Mr Van Engelshoven, although I find it very pleasant that we are once again in a debate, but I must also respect my own limits. I agree to pass on that question. I fully agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that one of the things that needs to be done is to inform and confront groups with what they are doing. What may also be worth mentioning here: painfully enough, the proportion of adult people of western origin in all discrimination events is 62% in 2018. There is still a lot of work to be done in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	Last April, this minister, together with his colleague Van Engelshoven, presented the action plan against anti-lhbt violence. The Minister knows that I did not think that was a real action plan, but rather a collection of good intentions. Ministers then also promised towards the VVD and other groups to come up with concrete measures to ensure that lhbt'ers can safely cross the street. That was a year and a half ago, and I still haven't seen it. And I am actually a little shocked if the Minister now gives my thanks for these questions to my colleague, Mr Bergkamp, to start that discussion in June. That conversation was promised and promised to me in April last year. It is not about who it is promised to, but I simply do not want any more conversations; I want concrete measures on how we are going to make sure that, like everyone else, lhbt people can be safe and free on the streets. I want the measures that were agreed, which were promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have just mentioned a whole series of measures, and we should not suddenly run away from them if Mrs Yeşilgöz is already running away from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	No, she's not running away; she was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	I specifically took up these measures last year. I've listed them all for you again. There are more, but I know your tendency, Mr President, to allow the debate to run slightly in a short space of time, so I am not going to list all that. And the conversation that is taking place now, therefore, has a very different reason, and I have just explained it: that in those incidents of violence that were there, I felt that there was something wrong with the whole protection regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you.
