ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. I would also like to welcome all the spokesmen who are taking part in this debate today. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. What we feared last week is necessary: tough measures to ensure that the virus does not spread further or, rather, that we ourselves do not spread the virus further. 'Cause without us, Corona's not gonna get anywhere. In a macabre dance with the virus, it is we who, without malice, infect another. We have been able to balance for a long time: on the one hand, we have taken measures to tame the virus and, on the other hand, we have allowed ourselves to reduce social and economic suffering, especially among entrepreneurs. But we can now see that more is needed: stronger measures to ensure that we do not spread the virus so much that the care is flooded and that the number of deaths is also increasing enormously. The signals from the OMT's care and prognosis have now become a lot more serious. The recent increase in contamination, if we do not intervene, will pose major risks to the accessibility and safety of care. And then we'll be as far from home as we were in March. We can prevent that from happening, and that is what we need to do now. Mr. Chairman. It's not just a virus that flies with the elderly and the vulnerable. It is precisely our concern that can save fewer elderly and less vulnerable. Almost everyone who is now on the ic or has been lying with corona, would not have been there without that care. He shouldn't have missed Christmas for a year; he wouldn't have made Christmas. He should not have lived one or two years of his life in this pandemic with less freedom; he simply would never have had freedom again. Mr. Chairman. I, too, would have liked to have sat with my wife, my daughters, my parents, my brothers, my sister-in-law, my nieces and my aunt on Christmas Eve, as every year. And I would have liked to have given others their old-and-new party as well. But it's just not gonna happen this year. Then you can start yelling at the Tower, hitting a spoon on a pan or claiming that you know it all better, but you can also see what you can do yourself to get out of this situation as soon as possible. That's sticking to the measures, and later, if you can, you're gonna get a vaccine. Let's do that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	I see Mrs Ouwehand, but let me see if you can just finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	It's possible. Mr. Chairman. Let's use this lockdown to prepare for the period after that, when hopefully we can start our society again with massive tests and experiment with ways of opening the catering industry safely, having events checked again and doing the fun things of life again. And it really doesn't provide the solution of targeted vaccination to protect and prevent people from spreading as effectively as possible. Mr. Chairman. I repeat my appeal to the cabinet: do not shy away from unorthodox solutions and collaborations and just show us that things are happening. I read today that the GGD Southeast Brabant is going to deploy MBO students to vaccinate. This gives the GGD more capacity and allows students to complete their internship. Those are fine messages that give the citizens courage. Also from the event industry is the offer to help and the question whether they can prepare themselves for the summer by means of a guarantee with loans, i.e. no gifts. Can the Cabinet indicate whether any progress has been made in this regard? Mr. Chairman. In the coming weeks, many of us, especially the entrepreneurs who had to close their doors again today, will be asking for the second or third time. Can the cabinet look again at the ongoing support for entrepreneurs? In general this is a very good package, but are the loose ends already tied together? Think of declining tax arrangements such as the cost of working for travel expenses and normal wages. I would like to remind the cabinet of the motion and the commitment to address the distressing situation in which start-ups are, the entrepreneurs who have just started around the first lockdown and are now out of business. Mr. Chairman. We're just having a shitty time ahead of us. For a lot of people it gets tough weeks because they're lonely because they're worried about their job or business or, worse, because they or their lovers are affected by corona. No matter how hard the coming weeks will be, if there's no loved one of you out there fighting for his life, if your own job or your company isn't on the road, if your income is still there, if you don't have to work your ass off in care and if you love your kids even though they're screaming through your homework meeting, then it's still hard times, but then you also have a lot of blessings to count.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	In the atmosphere of the Christmas days that are coming and the presents that you then give to each other, I can promise Mr Dijkhoff that he will receive a vegetarian cookbook to replace the hareback he looks forward to. Mr Dijkhoff rightly points out that the people who end up on the ice are not just old people. It could hurt anyone. Last week we heard that a quarter of the people who end up on the ic have to do with a resistant fungus. We've been warned about that. The use of poison, the use of fungal warriors, in agriculture creates resistance. I was wondering if the VVD would change its position in dealing with those dangerous substances in agriculture, because we now see that on the ic it is a problem for people who end up there with corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	The way we produce our food has many facets. I'm not gonna highlight one right now and the effects of it will end. If you don't use those kinds of resources, you might not make enough production to feed the mouths. Then you must have an alternative. I do not know enough about the extent to which the correlation is also a causal link to align a whole policy change of one party now. And thank you for the cookbook.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	Coming up! I understand that Mr Dijkhoff is not an agricultural spokesperson and that this question also requires a little expertise, but these are the facts that come up in this corona crisis. A quarter of the people who end up on the ic have this resistant fungus and half of the people die. This means that we need to look much more broadly at what we need to protect public health from. The VVD has always been the counter-sniffer of that kind of calls. Now that we know this, is that reason for the VVD to look differently at other things that also endanger public health and to better protect public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	It is a reason for us to continue looking at all the effects of certain means, including the non-use and alternatives. I was actually very proud of myself that this summer I had studied the whole phenomenon of zoonoses, but I've already noticed that I have homework for the next recess. I simply do not know enough about this precise operation to change the policy now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Asscher and then Mr Azarkan and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	I share Mr Dijkhoff's concern at the fact that we have come to this point with these extremely restrictive measures. He refers to the behavior for that. Of course it is, but my question to him is next. Does he also see that the cabinet has a role to play in the emergence of the point where we are now, by intervening too late since August, to waver, to hope that it will fall with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	The cabinet certainly has a role to play in this. I just do not share the qualification given by Mr Asscher. If you balance, then of course you try... Look, you can always take tougher measures, but the irony is that we are standing here regretting the fact that we now have to take these measures and say that we could have taken them earlier. You try all the time to take the measures that are needed, which work just enough, but not too much, causing them to harm others. In any case, from my group, I have always looked at what is best. In that sense, we are not too late now, but now is the time when we really have to do it, otherwise it will be a problem. With retroactive effect, with Hindsight, you can always point out a better time to do it, but I do not think Mr Asscher will say that we should have closed the schools last week, to give an example. It's still balancing. There must have been a time when you could have taken a certain measure sooner. I'm not denying that. The only question for me is whether I thought it was necessary at the time or whether I am going to say it easily now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	I have regularly asked the cabinet about this since August, and I have put forward proposals for it. I think we should simply conclude that the number of infections has grown far too far and that we now, with where we are now, have no other options. My question was not to answer the blame question, but to learn from it. Otherwise you will get a third or a three-and-a-half wave if, after January, there will be no containment if the infections rise again. That's what it was about. So I think it is not enough to say: yes, afterwards... No, we have to look ahead and note that the cabinet has always acted too late and too little. My second question is about schools, because I think we also have abdominal pain. Now do we choose... Do we have our priorities right? Does Mr Dijkhoff think that the fundamental right to go to church at the moment is more important than the fundamental right to go to school?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Asscher summarizes the change that we had first and says: we must note that he is making that observation, but I do not share it. Well, when you put it that way... I believe that the churches should not make maximum use of the fact that it is more difficult for the government to limit them and intervene in them. I do not think that churches should now say: we have certain rights and you cannot come in here, so we are opening up completely. I think they should be moderated, too, like the schools. I imagine you are setting out this dilemma of principle, but I do not think, in practical terms, that we can keep the schools open by blocking all access routes to the churches, because of course you could do that. I'm almost assuming... I would like to appeal to the churches here: understand your situation and cherish your rights, but also understand that there are times when you should not make full use of them, but you should show that you can bear those rights with responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	I very much support that call. I have one last question. If this works, then we have to assume that Mr Dijkhoff agrees with me that the primary schools, where relatively little is contributed to the infections and where the damage is very great, as we know from the first wave, should be the first to be eligible for a new weighting after old and new, so that they might be able to open up again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	Since Mr Asscher has already said this in the press, I was asked this question by a journalist. I have said that I understand this tendency, but I myself do not want to give rise in any way to the expectation that the schools can be opened earlier than is now foreseen. I think it's okay to look at it and get the OMT to look at it, but I would say: let's all get used to the idea that the package is what it is and takes for as long as it's announced. If it goes much faster, we could look at it, but I don't want to awaken that expectation in any way in humans. I do not want us to start thinking about how we can get out before the package has been predicted and foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	Finally, because that's what you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	We have to think about that, because that was just in your own speech. We need to start thinking about how we're gonna get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	After this. So after that package. If I understand your question correctly, you're not asking if it's possible for schools after the 17th. Your question is: let's see if the week that's stuck to it is... You say: let's see if the schools can open up a week earlier than the cabinet is planning, if the figures and the OMT advice are positive. That's how I took the question. Then it is within this package. I am not opposed to this, but I would not like to give the impression here to people that, one day after we have heard the package, we are mainly looking at whether the package can be reduced or reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	No, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	That would be fantastic, but I'm reluctant to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	Finally, Mr President. It was not a question of raising expectations, but of expressing our priorities as a Chamber. We certainly shouldn't create unrealistic expectations, but if we can, the OMT must indeed look at them after old and new ones, then you can say: in primary schools there are vulnerable children and so they must be the first to open up again. You're not opposed to asking that question, and I think that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Azarkan, Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	I would like to ask Mr Dijkhoff what he thinks of the cabinet's question after the 91st OMT opinion to ease the sale of alcohol from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. That was on 10 December and on 14 December the answer came. While the country is on fire, this cabinet asks the OMT: do you calculate what that means; is that justified? How does Mr Dijkhoff view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	If that's what you want, then it's wise to ask what the effects are. It would be unwise for you to say: I don't really need to know what the OMT is doing for the virus, because I just want to. Those kind of questions seem legitimate to me. I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	I'll explain. The answer of the OMT was actually: these are very detailed questions and the effects cannot be quantified separately. For me, that reads as: will you please ask us questions that we as OMT can do something with? Because the question is whether, at a time when the country is on fire and where catering companies are going down, you should make the proposal to see how you can ease alcohol sales from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Is that a wise policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	It is not a policy, so it cannot be sensible or unwise. I like the answer from the OMT all the more. So you can ask these kinds of questions, because if the OMT says "we don't have time for that," they write that down right away and then they don't pay attention to that either. Apparently, the OMT makes an independent assessment and when they see a question they think "we're not gonna save it," they give it back to the cabinet. I think that actually works well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	How does Mr Dijkhoff look at what is now the perspective for these large catering entrepreneurs? Actually, so are the small entrepreneurs, but I mean for the big group. Restaurant operators hear somewhere in October that they have to close in a day. The idea was that that would take a few weeks. I heard De Jonge say that on TV. Then you wait three or four weeks for that and then things get so bad that it stays close even longer. Next is the idea of perhaps doing something in mid-December, and now the blow of at least five weeks is coming to an end. What's the perspective for the hospitality industry right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	The hospitality industry currently, I'm afraid, has no date as a perspective to establish itself. You can see perspective in the field labs, and I hope they will be used in the meantime to get it all in order. Furthermore, the perspective for the hospitality industry, as well as the rest of society, lies in a reduction in the number of infections, and soon in getting there faster with testing and starting vaccination of people. That is a difficult perspective, because there is no date and point of reference to which you can cling. That's just extremely annoying. Yesterday, of course, for the catering industry, there was no bright spot; at most the feeling that you are less alone and that other people are now contributing more to limiting ourselves; that it is more together and you are less lonely in your misery. But, of course, the misery has not been reduced, although I would like to take away some of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	The question then is whether Mr Dijkhoff is prepared to consider how we can help the catering industry and a number of other professions, which are really very difficult and whose fat on the bones and savings are already quite exhausted. The question is what else can we do for these groups, which have been struggling for months and whose question is not whether it falls over, but if we continue to do so, when it falls over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	If there are any new cases, I always look at them seriously. I myself feel that this is something that we worked very hard for last week by expanding the support packages and stressing that you should also look at how things can be checked open again. This support has also been extended and applies to sectors which perhaps did not think they were covered last week. Unfortunately, as of today, it is a good thing that support is there. If there are any gaps in that, I am seriously looking at them; I have mentioned a few points where I see room for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	My question concerns how to proceed after 19 January and how Mr Dijkhoff sees it. Because the measures that have now been announced are extremely heavy for society as a whole, but they would be even more intense and far-reaching if they did not achieve the desired result after 19 January. I mean, of course, are we able to control the virus? Does Mr Dijkhoff now have a sharp focus on what the cabinet is sending? I mean, is he aware of the extent to which the number of infections should have fallen before we could relax on 19 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	I told you months ago, when a large part of the Chamber kept asking for these kinds of hard targets, why I don't see anything in them. At the request of many in the Chamber, there has been more of this, but that does not mean that I will now go along with it by making it my own and taking it over. I insist, especially when controlling a pandemic with a virus that is not known, that it is extremely difficult to look forward for two weeks. Something may now seem like a very logical hard target, but that may be different with another development. Suppose the vaccine kicks in and suppose you got more loose at the end of January and managed to create a protective ring around the vulnerable by vaccinating the staff in nursing homes. Suppose this has a big effect and we can vaccinate another group, then the same infection rate can have a very different impact on the burden of care. I just don't know if that's going to happen and what impact it will have. So I myself am not in favour of mentioning numbers in three weeks' time, which we must send to. We have predictions and estimates for how much this could help, but once the measures that have now entered into force, the shopkeepers and we all determine how things are going. Do we look up the edges or don't we look up the edges? Are we gonna sneak in and see more people? This determines the impact of the measures in practice, not the estimates. So now to make statements about the end of the package in numbers... There's something to say, but I never do and I don't go along with that either, because I don't believe in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	Look, nobody here pretends, at least I don't at all, that it would be a little easy to control this crisis, let alone the virus. I don't want to say that at all. What I do want to say is that we hope that we will learn from recent times. We've been in this crisis for quite a few months now, haven't we? That sailing in the fog was above all something from the beginning of the crisis. I do notice that there is a little less understanding of that now that we have been on the road for several months. That is why I ask Mr Dijkhoff whether he agrees that we must learn from the mistakes or assessments, or whatever qualification you want to give them, which have been made earlier. And if I hear Mr Dijkhoff say again 'yes, but the number of infections is perhaps not so relevant, because perhaps the concern can be dealt with', I am concerned about that. As far as we are concerned, the analysis is that directing hospitalization rather than on the infections means that we are back here together now, and we still have to conclude that we are too late. And then there is only one thing that is needed, namely to pull the emergency brake very hard. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	No, not on several counts. There's not so much between what we had and what we're doing right now. I do understand the feeling of "couldn't we have done more sooner?" But what else could we have done as an intermediate? So I do not have the idea that three weeks ago we could have had a sort of unbearable extension of the package of measures, which would have prevented us from doing so. In addition, you must of course learn from the past, but you must not think that the past repeats itself. You can now know the impact of certain measures in March. If you said "work at home" in March, you can now measure what the effect of that was. And if you make the same call now, the effect is different. So you have to learn from the past, but don't pretend it's the same one-on-one. And then the boating in the fog. Just because we sailed farther through that fog and bypassed a few icebergs doesn't mean that the rest of the route is exactly the same again. The problem is that there are always new factors. Luckily, there's gonna be a vaccine later. That changes a lot. Fortunately, there is also more test capacity. That changes a lot. Hopefully there will be more quick tests that you can easily take yourself, but it matters very much if such a quick test is there on March 1st or February 1st. And all those things that can help, are also new unknown factors that you can't predict and what you have to deal with. So I do not want to condone anything here and there will undoubtedly be an evaluation in which we will read what went wrong. I do not want to trivialize the fact that mistakes are being made. I've been critical enough, too. I just don't want to give the impression to the people who are following this debate that we can predict the future by looking back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	No, but if something has so much effect on so many people in society, we have to do the best we can to learn from it. And we do have that concern. We are afraid that there will still be too late intervention when you send in the number of hospital admissions instead of the number of infections. My final question is about the enormous effects it has on all those people who, for example, have their own business and are now told from one day to the next by the government that they need to close, even if Christmas is on the doorstep, so at a time when they had just thought they could sell some extra. They see that the next few weeks are going up in smoke. Does Mr Dijkhoff not agree that we should do more to compensate the self-employed, the shopkeepers? Shouldn't we just say, at least in the next few weeks, during the real lockdown, that as a government we are going to pay 100% of the damage these shopkeepers are suffering at the moment because they have to close by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	Quite frankly, we didn't say 100% at the catering industry either. We have arrangements for that, too. I think it is very good that the arrangements were extended last week and also that we did not impose any restrictions on sectors at the time. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is a solid basis for the aid packages. If we see something that goes wrong in practice, because the practice always clashes with the theory and then you encounter the real problems, then we will certainly be open to solving them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	I agree with Mr Dijkhoff, despite the fact that we are in trouble because the cabinet has also failed a bit, that it is very important that care remains accessible, especially to the people with corona, but also to the so-called other care or planned care, people with cancer or other diseases. Something has to be done for that. We can differ on a lot of things, but we agree on that. I do not agree with the cabinet, and I hope to be able to tempt the VVD Group to do so differently, about closing the shops. I think that is such an unfair and unnecessary measure! How many entrepreneurs are there in all those shopping streets of the Netherlands who see a billion-dollar turnover before Christmas, where a lot of people work and who have always kept to the rules? You have to stand in line to get in. You have to have your hands disinfected. Then you need to keep your distance. You need to wear a mouth cap. Apart from exceptions, the majority of them follow the rules. So that's not gonna go wrong. That also does not lead to extreme extra movements or infections. None of that turns out to be true. Couldn't you come with me and say, well, we have to take action, okay, but let's not let the retail trade get screwed, like the catering industry, let's just keep it open?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	If the contagions were to only come from people who deliberately disobey the rules, we wouldn't have had this problem. It's not like we're just infecting each other if we think the virus is bullshit or if we're deliberately giving someone a hug or a hand or if we're deliberately breaking rules. We've seen the following at shops. I don't think anyone gets in the car and thinks: I'm going to go find a nice busy place, while the advice is to avoid crowds. But we've all had a reason to go into town for a while, not all of us, but a lot of people. Of course, the shopkeeper can't help the fact that he's popular and there's a line. That's a good sign in itself. Those people who were all standing together in a big department store and thinking: maybe it's a little too crowded here and I have to go home after the checkout, didn't deliberately choose to spread that virus, but those are the places where it happens, where it's spread. I do not think that we should confuse that, that we would say to someone who now has a great deal of disadvantage from the measure, that he is responsible for the spread. It's all very small drops together. You can't take one drop out and say it's spilling over the bucket, but it's all those drops together. Also go to work if you don't have to, at the office. All these factors contribute. We can see that there are too many contacts and movements. Then you need to take more drastic measures. It will then be possible to analyse by measure why it may not be necessary, but we need to add it up and this is unfortunately part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	My point is that this measure is either out-of-proporton or disproportionate. He's unnecessary, just like the catering business. We saw, when the hospitality company closed, that the number of infections moved to the home situation. Before the catering industry closed, about 9% of the contaminations in the home situation and after the catering industry closed for a few weeks, it is over 20% in the home situation. So it's been moved from the catering industry to the people at home. I predict that will happen again. If people can't go to a restaurant or to the pub and then visit each other often, quite normal, very human, and if they can't go shopping, then that's going to happen even more heavily. My second point is that you also see that these busy shopping streets are not the general picture. Of course, that happened once. We all know Black Friday and other days. It is also good that mayors intervene if that happens again. But Google has looked at what it looks like with those moves in that retail and in those shopping streets, and the RIVM also uses those numbers. Then you can see that compared to January, when we didn't have a corona in the Netherlands, or at least, we didn't know that, and in August/September 32% decreased and that's still true. So the fall from 32% from January to September/October has continued to now. Even today, it is on average 32% less crowded in retail and shopping streets. So the picture that it's all busy and leads to extra movements is wrong. Again, if things go wrong, a mayor has to intervene, but that's not always the case. The number of infections moves from the store and the street to the people at home. So we put the horse behind the cart. Just leave that restaurant open, just like those stores. You will see that, on balance, this has a better effect than closing all these things now, while a lot of entrepreneurs are going to go to hell right now; you can give them help, but they are going to hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	That with the percentages is convenient but of course it doesn't work that way at all. I mean, if you take all the VVDs out of the Chamber and don't replace them, then the percentage of PVVs is larger, but no additional PVVs have been added. You take something out and then the whole block falls out and the rest by percentage. Mr Wilders says: we closed something, then it went up, so it doesn't work. That's kind of like walking through the rain with a little umbrella and still getting wet and saying, "I don't want an umbrella anymore." I'd say grab a bigger umbrella. And that's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	Those are all nice metaphors, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	There's nothing funny about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	No, I think I was talking. They're cute but childish metaphors. I was standing here last time about this catering entrepreneur fighting the parliamentary boss of the VVD, the party that pretends to stand up for entrepreneurs. Again, I'm not saying you have bad intentions with the care and reduction of the virus. That would all be lame, I'm not gonna do that, and I don't mean that either. But those people can expect us to be based on something when we make decisions. And that's unnecessary here. Again, it is not always busy every day in the streets of the Netherlands and if it does, a mayor can intervene, whatever I support. And it moves from the catering locations and later the shops to the people at home. Because people aren't gonna sit at home alone if they can't go to a restaurant or the store. They're just gonna see each other more. You can also see in the figures that there are more infections. Moreover, these companies are going to be in big trouble. They almost have the end in sight. It's January/February/March and the first vaccines are coming. Then just before the finish, in which they kept to the rules, the cabinet comes and says: all close. Okay, what did the Health Minister say on television yesterday? That toolbox, I don't know if it's gonna work, I'm gonna tear it all out and use it all. I charge it a little bit now in my own words. But that entrepreneur is screwed. Don't let that happen. Let them open. Let's find other ways to make sure that what I share with you, those hospitals can do their care right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u47	I don't use nice metaphors. I find it childish when we think that we calculate ourselves with a little bit and push it with percentages know better than the OMT. Then I think it's going to be a childish debate. There's nothing funny about this measure. It's a bitter necessity. And we don't have time to see if we can do it in any other way, because there are no other ways. What do you want to close? Do you want to lock people in their homes? Yeah, they did that in some Asian countries, where when you walked out there, there were big speakers shouting, "Go back to your house." That does not seem to me to be a solution either. By the way, the shops were closed there. Anyway, if you can't get out of your house, the store doesn't have to be open. I see in Mr Wilders' words an attempt to give another group the feeling that they didn't have to be screwed, but I think most people also understand that this doesn't work. As far as Mr Wilders is concerned, the catering industry and the retail sector would be open and then we would end up closing the schools alone. We're not gonna make it. We can't control the virus with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u48	In my view, the question that should have been answered in the previous interruption by Mr Dijkhoff is: do you really think these measures are proportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u50	But that is a bit strange, because if we look at the figures, only 500 people under 65 have died out of the 9,000 people who died from corona. At the same time, 45,000 people died of cancer and 30,000 people died of cardiovascular disease. At the moment, these measures are going through, which are really the straw for many entrepreneurs, the whole of SMEs and the catering industry. Mr Dijkhoff is from the party that used to stand up for SMEs. Do you still think that these measures are proportionate at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yes. I don't think you can stand up for groups when you're going to magic with numbers. Mr Van Haga now mentions a number, a mortality rate below a certain age, and compares it with a total mortality rate over all ages, in other conditions. You know, that's how you're gonna give the impression again, without saying that you mean it, because you're smart as if it's too trivialized, as if it's just a small number of dead. You are also going to use the success that is there, namely that until now we have been able to offer care to everyone who needed it to prevent him from dying of corona as an argument against those measures. You're gonna use the fact that the care can handle it now as some kind of reasoning that that care isn't necessary. I find that out of proportion. I think we are asking a lot of entrepreneurs. We also offer support. It is indeed never as much as you would have had if you had been open, but no one in this society has exactly the same and no one makes sacrifices compared to when that whole virus had not been there. So I think this is proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u52	This seems to be some kind of debate contest, but I find these kinds of tricks really annoying. I said 9,000 people died of corona. That's a hard number. Of these, 500 people under 65 died: 250 in the cohort 60 to 65 and under 60 only 250 people. I compared those 9,000 people to all those other people who died of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. That's just a normal equation, so you can let go of a trick on that, but that doesn't last. I ask my question again. Both economically and medically, the collateral damage is huge. Do you still consider these measures proportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u53	Yes. Look, the word "debate tricks" is usually used when your own trick just didn't work out, so I'll take that for notice. But it's not a comparison. You compare the number of people who have died with all the measures that have been taken. So, if you're really going to talk about proportionality, you shouldn't take the number that died with those measures. Then you should be honest and mention some that would have died without those measures, if there had been no ic-spots for those people. If it is so disproportionate, you have to put it in proportion to compare it and to contrast it with the much more pleasant picture that these entrepreneurs have no problems. You have to be honest about that. I therefore consider this to be proportionate. I think this is bitter, I think this is acidic, I think this is terrible and I hope we all get out of this as soon as possible, but I think it is of little insight, also given what the care has done in life-saving situations and what curbing the virus has meant for the number of people who could have cared that would have died otherwise, how Mr Van Haga is putting it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u54	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u55	Finally. Then I would advise Mr Dijkhoff to read the report by Michaëla Schippers, the professor who portrayed the medical collateral damage and who countered the proceeds of the corona measures. That was before these dystopian measures of this total lockdown, so there is indeed total disproportion as far as I am concerned. But it's all written down, and I suggest you read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u56	We share with the VVD that this step is a necessary evil. Only, it is sometimes quite difficult to find the logic if you as Primera are allowed to receive the packages but the State locks are not allowed to sell. Those are the things that are sanding. Does the VVD share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u57	That's definitely sanding. And if you solve that, you have new boundaries and those barns again, because why should you be allowed to buy lottery tickets and magazines from someone who is also a postal parcel point and not from someone who is exactly the same except for that postal parcel point? That is a problem in our beautiful society, and I am very much in favour of it as a liberal party to economic blurring and of people who combine all activities. But then the downside is that in a situation like this you can't say very easily: you are this store, you are that store and you are such a store. Or: you are a post office and you are a lottery and magazine salesman and a tobacco store. So I agree with Mrs Van Brenk that every time you look at the border, you think: can't this one get in, or shouldn't it? By the way, we don't do that much. Then you push the line. But there is never a completely logical limit, except for everything open or everything closed. I therefore agree with you, but I do not see any reason to make any adjustments to the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u58	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I'll wait a minute. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet completely lost control of the virus. The number of people tested positively is growing again and hospital care is becoming increasingly under pressure. So clearly what the cabinet has done so far has not worked. And now, in some sort of blind panic, they come in just before Christmas with a complete lockdown to control the virus. But how did we actually get into this situation? That is the first question you have to ask before you give an opinion on the package that is now on the table, a package which is already in force under that terrible corona law without the House having agreed in advance. Today we are in a situation of contagion and increasing pressure on hospitals partly because cabinet policy was chaotic, inconsistent and difficult to follow for many people. As a result, people saw the urgency of the measures less and less often, and that is not surprising. In this way, the cabinet has not yet been able to make clear what measures have had exactly what effect. Mouth caps had hardly any added value at first, but were then required. The schools did not have to close, had to close then, then opened again and now have to close again. People were allowed to go to church with 200 men, but not with one friend to the pub. Shopping was allowed, but afterwards a cup of coffee in the restaurant was strictly forbidden. Random, total randomness and chaos. The same goes for the care. The big problem in care is still that there are far too few care workers. And that is also due to the cabinet. They have closed down hospitals and there have been far too few care workers due to their carelessness, which means that the workload is really too high. There was no structural additional salary increase, despite a motion adopted, and the bonus promised has still only been paid in part. Mr. Chairman. Also when it comes to the way the virus spreads, the cabinet has dropped. For example, the important form of transmission of the virus by breath through small drops, the so-called aerogenic transmission, has been underestimated to this day, as has the enormous importance of good ventilation in indoor spaces. A blunder, with far-reaching consequences, also for the current lockdown in these winter months, when people have to sit at home massively with poor ventilation. And I'm not even talking about the failing test policy, the failing source and contact research and all the arguing in the cabinet. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het heeft het terugdringen van het virus, en dan zeg ik het nog netjes, niet geholpen; integendeel.]] Mr. Chairman. Don't get me wrong. Keeping the care manageable and being able to continue to care for people with corona and other diseases, such as cancer, back and knee problems or heart problems, is for the PVV of all-, paramount, despite the blunder of the cabinet. The re-scaling of regular care is therefore unacceptable. Every week, in every debate here in the Lower House, I have fought on behalf of the PVV for this last year. If it is necessary to take measures to reduce the pressure on care, so that sick people get the care they need in our hospitals, then those measures must be taken, and then we support them, as long as they are meaningful and proportionate. But the image that people and companies in the Netherlands have made a huge mess of it, must really get out of the way, because it really isn't. Mr. Chairman. I have just said it in an interrupting debate with Mr Dijkhoff: closing all the so-called non-essential shops for five weeks is a very far-reaching measure with huge economic consequences so close to Christmas, a time when normal billions of turnovers are being made. Can the Prime Minister explain to me why a sector which, like the catering industry, has complied with all the measures has to close down, even though we know that most infections occur not in shops or in the catering industry, but in the home situation? In fact, I have already said this in an interruption because of the closure of the catering industry, the number of home contaminations has almost tripled. And I swear to you, there's a good chance that's gonna happen when you close the stores. Why did you choose a period of five weeks? Why not two, three or four weeks? What is the basis of the choice for five weeks? Mr. Chairman. It will be clear: the PVV does not want to close the shops or the catering industry. But if the cabinet insists on this, we really need 100% compensation for the businesses affected in the retail and catering sector when it comes to a fixed-cost scheme, the TVL, and a reduction in wage costs for their employees under the NOW scheme. The House is voting, I believe, on this Thursday on my motion to give at least 100% compensation in the hospitality sector if you do not want to keep them open. And for this sector, if you do not want to keep them open, I will table a similar motion in the second term. Mr. Chairman. If the cabinet does not keep the shops and the catering industry open and does not pay the damage by 100%, then the damage for these companies and for the millions of workers who work there is incalculable. So pay those costs, tops! And don't come up with the excuse that's too expensive. Because last Friday, at the European summit, you did not give the green light to tens of billions of euros of Dutch tax money to corona aid for southern Europe, but you left our own companies, our own employees in those companies, in the cold. I'd like a firm commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u61	If you listen to Mr. Geert Wilders like that, you'd think he'd give good advice. Well, his advice on March 18 was to let the country go into lockdown for four weeks. That was the proposal, supported by Baudet. In fact, everyone except Mr Wilders' and Mr FvD's party said that we do not think that is a good idea. In fact, Mr Wilders gets what he asked for, namely a lockdown. A little later, though. On what basis did Mr Wilders intend to close the country for four weeks in March?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u62	I explained that at the time. But I'll tell you the difference, because that's interesting, of course. Why was it different then than now? We were in a situation back then... Mr President, I can now hear Mr Rutte and Mr Azarkan talking through it. Maybe we should suspend for a while, so both gentlemen can fertilize each other politically. I don't know, but there's something beautiful going on between the two of them. I was working on my answer. That's what I'm saying. The difference between then and now is that at that time, in March, we knew nothing about the virus. We didn't know anything. There was not yet the beginning of a test policy. There was no beginning of a source and contact investigation. There was no beginning of a medication, which fortunately is now there, which means that people are less long on the ic or at least can be helped. There was nothing at the time. And at that point, in order to get to know the virus better, that was a great proposal to do that briefly. Now Cabinet is debunking its own problems that they have caused. They've made a huge mess of the source and contact research. They've made a huge mess of testing policy. They've been arguing with each other about the policy. One time people had to put on a mouth cap, the other time it didn't have an effect, then it did. It was a big mess! So where it was indeed wise at the beginning of the year to do so temporarily, it is actually just a sign of their own impotence, although in the end, when it comes to the result, namely to keep the care manageable to ensure that people can still get their care, we can only support a large part of those measures, with the exception of a number I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u63	It's really remarkable. We didn't know anything on March 18th. At least Mr Wilders says: I knew nothing. We didn't know anything. We didn't know how this would work out. And yet he then grabs a horse's medal, which is the most far-reaching means, by saying'shuttle the country', with all the consequences for entrepreneurs, citizens, schools, etc. You'd say we have people who understand things like this more than we do. Those are people in the OMT, experts, who advise differently. Why does Mr Wilders go against that advice every time? In doing so, he also wants to undermine the authority of such institutions. If you didn't know anything, I'll tell you through you, President-in-Office. What makes you think you know better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u64	I just gave the answer. I can repeat it again. I'd like to do that; it's the last time. The difference between the situation in March and now is that we didn't know anything at the time. We didn't have any medicine. We didn't have a test policy. We didn't have anything. There was a lack of capacity. We didn't know anything at all, so it was very wise to take a look at the place. Now we're what is it? Nine months later, the cabinet should have had its affairs in order. They should have made sure that there were sufficient, at least more, care staff. By now, we know there's a drug in place. It's all not enough yet, but there's medication. The cabinet failed to do so and failed to get the test policy in order. There was no test policy in March. I can assure you that we would now be in a better and different situation if that had been in order. In other words, calling this now is a sign of impotence, more than in the beginning, where it was a sign of short and sensible. Nevertheless, I have just said that, given the enormous consequences for care if this does not happen, we will support it with a number of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u65	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u66	There is one more part of this discussion. This is about Mr Wilders advocating that a lot of contaminations take place at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u67	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u68	That means that if we had followed his advice on 18 March, we would have had a lot of infections. Does Mr. Wilders realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u69	No, because that too was not known at the time and not the case. The problem now is that people did go to the catering industry and, if we closed it, they would go from the catering industry to the home in one go. That is a completely incomparable situation. Once again, if the cabinet had been in order, if the cabinet had made sure that the test policy was in order, if the cabinet had had had the source and contact research in order, if the cabinet had not broken the care, but that they had built up the care, if they had made sure that people in the care had now voluntarily, for a better salary, more than part-time work... When it comes to bureaucracy, we can win 50% of the employees by abolishing all these crazy rules, by ensuring that people working in the management can work on the work floor. The Cabinet could have done all that. How many times have I been standing here arguing for that? It didn't happen. Doing this at once is a weakness, but I fear that we will not be able to completely shoot it off for the good cause, namely keeping care available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While yesterday 8.5 million Dutch people listened to a Prime Minister who brought the sad news of a heavy lockdown, in the background the pots and pans and the strangling flute tones of about a hundred protesters were heard. I think this is indicative of the situation we are in. Because if we all respect ourselves, we all have the best chance of a little more freedom and a little more proximity. I believe that the anger generated by the whistles of these protesters is understandable and logical. We must be careful with the images that it is the fault of a lot of people, because a lot of Dutch people feel they have done their best. It is hard for them that the message arrives: but it is not good enough. That is a harsh reality that evokes anger when faced with a small group that does not take joint responsibility and says: we are not participating. The simple truth is that this lockdown is needed. See how the figures have risen in recent weeks and look at the risks for the coming weeks and the Christmas period. But it's very difficult for a lot of people. Especially closing primary schools in all kinds of places raises a lot of questions and concerns. My question to the cabinet is: what is being done to ensure that emergency care is immediately in place and that the children in vulnerable positions with unsafe home situations can go there immediately and do not lose that place? And what is being done to ensure that people have enough space to work at home and fight it for each other? Stichting Voor Werkende Parents today put forward proposals for this and advocated the extension of calamity leave. Is that something that could help? One concern, which has been raised by various parties at various times in recent months, is the risk of educational disadvantages. On the contrary, it affects vulnerable children more than the children who were able to come along. What is the government doing, what is the Minister for Education doing, to ensure that the educational disadvantages in the situation that we now have do not increase further? The contrast between the concerns about schools and the images of Schiphol Airport and the transfer terminals is great. The feeling that that evokes, think also of the protesters, Black Friday, the full shops and the catering industry, which we talked about last week. Heavy sacrifices are being made and at the same time we see full transfer terminals. This is still separate from the spread of the virus, which is also taking place there. I see in yesterday's letter that it is urgently advised not to book trips before the period until mid-March. The term "urgent opinion" has already been mentioned several times in various debates. However, it does not appear that an urgent opinion on joint responsibility has been spent on everyone. What does the cabinet do when the next few days and weeks it turns out that there's going to be a boom in people thinking "no lockdown, I'm booking that ticket to the sun" and you see the numbers going up? So what's being done to stop that? Are there any measures you can still take? Because we're all not waiting to see footage of too full departure halls and transfer terminals every day throughout the Christmas period. Is that what conversations are about? Can we agree on that? I saw the Health Minister on television yesterday saying that in the end you can impose a flight ban, but you really want to avoid that. Apparently, that's something that's being considered. What is the cabinet going to do about this distortion, which is caused by a group of people, it is by no means everyone, but you have a departure hall quickly filled if a certain percentage does not stick to tackle it? Retailers are gonna have a hard time in the next few weeks. What will the Cabinet do, for example with municipalities, to support local entrepreneurs, so that they are not played away by the Amazons of this world? Large supermarkets should not be robbing bread for the local middle class. I would like to appeal to the XL supermarkets, which have been going on for a fantastic year; they have turned over what any other entrepreneur can dream of to give the small businessman, the small businessman, the chance and not to compete away. I ask the cabinet what it can contribute to that. Then the quick tests and the preparation for the roll-out of the vaccine. Have any steps been taken on the registration lists for the care staff as soon as the Pfizer vaccine can be rolled out at the beginning of next year, which we talked about last week? What role does the DOD ultimately play in this? Can't the expertise of the Defense Department be used very well? During this debate, I receive all kinds of push messages that the Pfizer vaccine may be allowed earlier and that the decision will be taken a week earlier. I haven't seen a message that it couldn't be. Nevertheless, I ask the cabinet what is true of these messages. Does that possibly have the effect that can be started earlier with the roll-out? Mr President, I will conclude. It's gonna be a tough Christmas for a lot of people, because loneliness is lurking. At the same time, over the last few months, we have seen a lot of beautiful initiatives, such as the churches and the flame of the Orange Fund, in order to ensure that there is a little extra attention for each other and that people who may become lonely are looked at. With big and small gestures we can make sure that people are not forgotten in the dark days before Christmas. Only together we get corona underneath, but also together we can make sure that no one is lonely this Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All signals are red. The number of infected persons has increased sharply in recent days among all age groups. The previous package of measures proved insufficient and the pressure on care, especially in the coming months, calls for strong action. We will therefore be facing a difficult period in the next five weeks and, unfortunately, we will have to celebrate the holidays in a small circle. That's tough, but it's necessary. That is why my group supports the cabinet line. But it also asks for perspective how we can free ourselves from this pinching position after the lockdown. The cabinet should use the next five weeks for that. The sensible reopening of society after this lockdown starts testing. The information we obtain about the spread of the virus is useful for targeted intervention. That's why we need to test much more in 2021 to avoid a next lockdown. Just last week I asked Mr Klaver to set up rapid testing sites at MBO, HBO and Wed before the end of January. I'd like to hear how the Minister can carry out that motion. Frequent testing will soon have to become part of everyday life, including at companies and events. The guidelines for this are ready, but how can companies and events work with these rapid tests? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said yesterday that the vaccine 2021 will be a year of hope and light at the end of the tunnel. But it's still unclear how long we're gonna be in that tunnel. Make it concrete, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. There are vaccines coming up for some 12 million Dutch people and we have 5 million to 6 million people who are given priority. When will we reach the moment when we have enough people vaccinated to relax the measures? During last week's debate, I drew attention to the perspective, away from the black and white approach in which either everything is open or everything is closed, but look with test areas which can be opened again safely and gradually. Fortunately, the cabinet continues these experiments despite the lockdown. In the next few weeks, we can find out what a smart way out of this lockdown is. Mr. Chairman. The announced measures affect many entrepreneurs. The catering industry and the cultural sector are already struggling, but other companies are now joining in. The public support packages are substantial, but they may not be enough now. When are we gonna hear from the Cabinet about this? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to education. Minister De Jonge said yesterday that no physical education contributes to parents following homework advice. That kind of feels like kids are their parents' living anklet. "They are," I hear a few young parents calling now, but that has nothing to do with corona. Children can sometimes be a liability, I say to those colleagues, but in order to really use them as a living anklet to force homework, my group goes a little far. So I'm asking the Minister if he realizes how that statement came into many living rooms yesterday. 'Cause that's where parents sat who were holding hands during the first corona wave. They had to find a solution to a situation where they had to help their children with school work but also had to work at home and at the same time arrange the rest of the household. And for children, no physical education also means no normal teaching situation, no boyfriends with which you can play in a playground, less social development and a growing inequality between those who do and those who do not grow up in a home environment where education is stimulated. This is one of the reasons why, even in the case of a lockdown, primary education would remain open, according to the Roadmap. Because for children, every week counts. Is the government therefore prepared to look with the OMT and the schools at the beginning of January to see whether primary education and childcare can be physically opened again from Monday 11 January instead of from 18 January? Mr. Chairman. Last summer, a lot of schools started to work to overcome the learning disadvantages of the first lockdown. But today's measures threaten new problems for children, for example pupils from the 8th grade and final graduates. So, in addition to investing in business, let us also see how we can invest in human capital, our future, our children. I would therefore ask the cabinet what is happening with the extra efforts to avoid learning disadvantages. How can the cabinet support municipalities and the educational field as much as possible in the next few weeks, so that we can catch up with many of these delays in the second half of this school year? Mr President, two brief questions. The lockdown also means that the group size goes outside to up to two people, while many people try to meet outside instead of inside, because we know that in that home situation there are many infections. Why did you choose that maximum group size of two outside? And in addition to Mr Heerma: the images of that overcrowded Schiphol and other airports around the world are frowning with many people. There is now a negative travel advice for the coming months, but why doesn't the cabinet choose to ask for a negative test for all traveling travellers? When people decide to get on the plane, they also bear the responsibility not to enter the Netherlands with the virus. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you. I forgot at the beginning to mention that this debate is being flooded and that a sign interpreter also makes this debate accessible to the deaf and the hearing impaired. That's something very special. I now turn to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u75	Who didn't curse yesterday and the days before? Who didn't curse when we... Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij? That's what they're saying right now, but I don't believe it. I did. Why did we end up here? It is very attractive to start your contribution now by pointing out what opportunities we have missed, if we could have intervened earlier and the test policy... I'm not gonna do that right now. We've had enough debates on that. 'Cause no matter how you turn it, no matter how we got here, we're in this boat together. We need to get out of this together. Together as one country, as opposition and coalition, as cabinet and chamber. We have to move forward together. But we made an agreement with each other, at least that's how it feels to me: whatever the approach to this corona crisis, whatever measures we choose, we choose to protect the most vulnerable. Very often we talk about those most vulnerable. About people with weak health. About people who are 70-plus. But I actually want to talk about a whole other group, which is perhaps the hardest hit by corona by the last nine months we've been in. I am thinking of all young people, who have had limited education and cannot go to school again. To the young people who work in flex jobs. Retail's closing. This is terrible for entrepreneurs, but there too it is especially young people with flex contracts who are again screwed. And I'm thinking of all those people with mental problems, who were already dealing with huge waiting lists at the ggz, but who are still seeing the problems getting bigger. 'Cause if you have mental problems and you're home alone, it doesn't get any better. And staying home is nice when you have a roof over your head, but what about all the homeless? Mr. Chairman. The point I want to make is this. If we say that we stand up for the most vulnerable and want to protect them, then we need a step more, for the ggz, for the homeless, for young people in this country, to give perspective for the coming weeks. Mr. Chairman. My group supports this cabinet in tackling this corona crisis, but on one point I really want to ask the cabinet to come back to the decision. I've been thinking about it for a long time if I want to put it that firmly, but I'm still doing it. That is the decision to close the p.o., primary education. I think we've been... I was in the lead this spring to say that education has to be closed anyway. And when we look back and see what studies there have been into what the effect of closing primary education has been, I think we've all been shocked and we've thought: never this again, no matter what happens. And yes, we can't rule anything out. Maybe there will come a time when primary education needs to close. But I see that there is still no intervention at Schiphol Airport and that even though I am a big football fan, there can still be football in the Honorary Division. Confessing your faith is very important, but I see that you're still allowed to go to church and that there's much less interference than this spring. That is why I do not think it should be explained that we are now taking the step to close primary education, especially when I hear the explanation from the cabinet. It's supposed to force parents to work at home. If too few people, too few parents, work at home, then we have to think of something else. I don't really care what it is or how far it is, but everything is better than closing down primary education. There's a huge increase in odds and odds. It is said that there must be room for vulnerable children to attend school. How do you make that choice? Who's vulnerable? Do we know about all these kids if they're vulnerable? School is a place for children to escape a home situation that we ourselves do not even know is pleasant or not pleasant there. I ask the cabinet: please, come back to this. The price that the next generation will have to pay, including us, the people who will be sitting in this room and box K in 30 years' time, is too great. If parents have to work at home and don't do that because apparently their kids are in school, that's the problem. Then we're gonna take on the parents and we're not gonna do it through the kids. Mr. Chairman. I understand we're going into lockdown right now, but the question is, how are we gonna get out of here? How do we ensure that this is not needed a third time later? I'm really worried about that. The test policy was out of order. Now it is said: look how good it is! We're about to go to 175,000 tests a day. That's where we're going. It's a very proud thing to do. It's not enough! You might need a million tests a day to keep our society truly safe. We had a debate last week on the vaccine. It was said that we have a very fine-meshed network that is very different from all other countries, and that we use it. People aren't getting extra training yet. I am concerned if we are ready to be able to give the vaccine on a truly large scale next year. I also received reports that the vaccine would be approved as early as 21 December. My question to the Minister is: do you suggest that this is the case, that the approval comes in on 21 December, by when are we going to inoculate in the Netherlands? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. It's important that we get through this together. Full support for the difficult measures being taken, but I really ask the Cabinet to look further on two points. Be prepared to intervene harder in air traffic. Look at the country advices out there. Put everything on red for the next few weeks, for all I care. See if we can get a flight ban. But make sure we reduce the number of movements there. And please, comes back to the decision to close primary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u76	On that last point, I have a question. I can feel the abdominal pain, too. I also feel the pain when it comes to the closure of primary education, including secondary and secondary education. However, Mr Klaver said: I can imagine that there will be a situation where the schools will have to close. When will that situation be there for him? When is it justified to close schools in primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u77	To be perfectly honest, I'm saying that because I think you should always mentally leave room for that point to come. I can imagine that it would be as if it were simply established that there are large clusters of infections there, if you can't control it there, or if there is a mutation of a virus which makes it very dangerous for children. However, in all cases, I believe that we should avoid the closure of the P.O.P. of primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u78	It is, of course, a very difficult consideration. It is, of course, very difficult to see that closing a school immediately leads to delays for the most vulnerable children. At the same time, it is about 13 days of school. British government research has shown that once you close schools, the R-factor can eventually go down by 0.35, so in our case, you would end up under 1. Can there be a balance somewhere in the sense that you say: those are thirteen days and we now have a stomachache, but at the same time the potential profit is so great, looking at the care, looking at vulnerable people, looking at the economic damage, that for Mr Klaver too, there can be a new moment, a new balance, somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u79	That is a very fair question. Of course, I've been thinking about that, too. I have also looked at what the OMT has written about this, not only in general terms in the last opinion but also earlier. That is why I am talking about primary education. I don't think I have a story to say right now: you shouldn't intervene in high school. Because we see that there are big clusters of infections there. I therefore believe that this would greatly contribute to the reduction of the virus. But if we look at all the advice given on primary education, which says that it is not actually the place where the infections occur, then I find the price we pay too high. If there were any other information on this, I might have to change my opinion. That's why I'm standing here and leaving that space. Never say never. But if I weigh all the information that is present now, then I come to a point where I say: please don't do it. That is the balance that we have to make with each other. I say that to the cabinet and to all colleagues. This is not an easy decision, but I feel that this is not the right way to go. Those young children... You can say it's only 13 days, but they come after two weeks of Christmas vacation. That's an important period for a lot of classes. Please don't. I think we have other options.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u80	It is true that it is a very difficult decision, but at the same time Mr Klaver sounded very categorically in his no. I've been digging in, too, and I've been looking into investigations. British research in particular, but also international comparative research and advice from the World Health Organisation say: closing schools immediately leads to a reduction in R. There may be a moment in that weighing when you say: boys, it's painful, but there are no easy solutions. There's no easy decision. The closing of shops is, of course, a disaster. That's terrible. The fact that we are so obstructed in social terms is also a disaster. It's always worthless. At the same time, there may be a moment when you say: the price of not doing it is too high, and what it will yield if we do is so great that we have to get over it. I would like to advocate openness in this respect. I ask Mr Klaver to remain open to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u81	I'm still open to that, but now the facts are there and then you're making a trade-off. I also regret that the shops have to close, but you have not heard me. I said: no matter how difficult that decision is, I support it. The same applies to all other measures discussed. They're horrible, too. Everywhere you weigh, what do you do and what don't you do? But when I look at the whole package and see... We have constantly said: let us base ourselves on what the OMT advises. Isn't that the basis for everything we do to each other? That's what we're told all the time. Go back. We have now received 91 or 92 opinions. Read back what's in there all the time. There is an explicit reference to vo, but it is also said that primary education is not the place where the infections take place. If you combine that with a cabinet and a minister who say they want parents to work at home, there are other ways of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our country is in a deep crisis and that means a lot to a lot of people. Suppose you have your own business and hear from one day or another that you have to close. Or think of all those people with a call contract, who will probably no longer be called up in the next few weeks and may therefore no longer have work and income. Think about the kids, too. It's been going on for a while. Think of children who may not have such a good home situation and who will not be able to go to school in the next few weeks. At the moment, the cabinet has only seen one option: pull the emergency brake. We think we should see it this way. We think it is important to consider how we got here before we talk about how we should proceed after 19 January. It has often been here in this Chamber about the number of contagion, last week to be precise. Last week the SP asked the cabinet: to what level should the number of infections increase further before you consider additional intervention? At that time, I do not think there was a clear answer. We see where we are now. This means a lot to a lot of people. This is going to be very profound in the lives of a lot of people. What we absolutely want to avoid at all costs is that we must take these very violent measures without having a guarantee that we will get out of here after 19 January and keep the virus well under control. That means, of course, a good test policy. Can we then test enough and can we test preventively? That also means: a good source and contact research. After 19 January, will we be able to continue the research on sources and contact, even if the number of infections with the relaxations is likely to increase again? Are we then able to continue to carry out good source and contact research instead of taking that risk-driven approach, with which we will lose sight of the virus again? In this light, I ask the cabinet for the piece, the memo, of a rather decent delegation from this cabinet, namely the three ministers Koolmees, Hoekstra and Wiebes. In that memo, they say that a lockdown would be a very bad idea, not only because it would hit the economy very hard, but also because their fellow minister De Jonge would not have his business in order. That memo reads: we can do a lockdown, but after that, when it opens again, the virus will just grow up again, because the test policy is not "quipped enough." Those are fine words, but it is very hard language for: the basis is not in order. So I'd like to hear from the Cabinet the following. Was that a totally wrong assessment of these three ministers in the cabinet, or is there a truth in that? Has it improved or is the situation still as described by these three ministers? And what does that mean before January 19th and after? Mr. Chairman. Then our caregivers. We're really asking a lot of these people, and we've been asking a lot of them for a really long time. Last week I was allowed to visit the Erasmus MC. When you hear how absenteeism increases and how the pressure on health care providers increases, all this has to do with exhaustion combined with little perspective, causing people to fail. That's what we're really worried about. We would therefore like to know from the Cabinet what it is still willing to do in order to support healthcare professionals. It is well known that we believe they deserve an honest reward. We also believe that we cannot afford not to offer them, because we really need many more colleagues in healthcare. So we have to pull everything out of the closet to make that work more attractive. In addition, of course, to increase control and tackle bureaucracy, they must also receive a decent reward. But we would also like to know in concrete terms from the cabinet whether we are asking caregivers what they were really helped with. Is it an idea, for example, to ask Red Cross volunteers or perhaps Defence staff to join us? Not to take over care tasks because for that you need to be trained in health care but perhaps to support in shopping, cleaning or helping to change. I don't know, it's a specific question, but I'm curious what the cabinet is thinking. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister spoke fine words yesterday in the speech that we should do this together as a society, as one community. I think that's true. In a sense, he also called for solidarity. We can wholeheartedly endorse that, and we will give him that support. But what we have difficulty with is that if the Prime Minister calls for solidarity, we have in mind that it has been precisely that solidarity that has been put at serious risk by this Prime Minister over the last ten years. Take, for example, the cuts in healthcare, but also the further increase of the uncertainty of working people in the Netherlands. Or take the role of your own government, to name but a few. I think the Prime Minister should be aware that it is precisely this solidarity that he has put so much pressure on, that we are now asking of society. Finally, Mr President. That's what I started my story with: for a lot of people this means a lot. Many people will be uncertain about their future, and very specific about their income now. In an interruption it was just about that as well. I would ask the Cabinet to do more for all those people who now have to close their business from one day to the next and see their income evaporate completely, even though they had hoped to be able to make a little turnover in the coming weeks, with the Christmas period in mind, in order to make up for an already difficult year. Shouldn't we just say the following to each other? This is a terrible time, but if the cabinet says "we're going to do this together," then we should be able to agree today that no one in uncertainty needs to enter the Christmas period and no one in uncertainty about their income should enter the new year? Shouldn't that just mean that we say: of all those people who are now losing their income, of all those entrepreneurs who have to close down government, we are going to reimburse their expenses and we are going to support them 100%? I actually think that the cabinet should give that guarantee today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you. I think there is a need for a short suspension, from two to three minutes. No? Then let's move on! They're afraid to say it because I'm saying it out loud. Why don't we just suspend? For two minutes, then. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u85	I give the floor to Mr Asscher of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. I was supposed to go to De Vier Windstreken yesterday, a school in Amsterdam-Noord. That's the school where the documentary classes were made. Have you guys seen that documentary yet? It is highly recommended. This documentary shows in a very moving way, based on the lives of the children of that school, that all children actually have the same dreams for later, but that the chance to make your dreams come true is also hugely different. It is precisely those children and all the other children who desperately need their school, who are now going to pay for Black Friday, who now have to make up for the bargain hunt. The fish is paid expensively and so are the bargains. This is painful, poignant, as it is also painful for people who see the images of the holiday flights at Schiphol Airport from their close café or shop, where people seem to be displaced for not really necessary trips. Here we are, at the beginning of a blunt lockdown, at a point that we wanted to avoid and that the cabinet wanted to prevent. How did we end up here? That's because it's a rotten virus that nobody wanted. It's because a lot of people do their best, but some don't take it so closely with the rules. But it is also due to this cabinet's wandering policy, by hoping to be the father of thought for months, by a strategy that is messy and not clear, and by not curbing it, but heading for care capacity. It's been said so many times that if you're wrong for a second, you have a huge problem. And we do now. The care capacity is in danger of being flooded. The care workers can't take it anymore. There's a lot of absenteeism. Too many people get sick. Now that we're standing here, it's inevitable to intervene. That's true, so I support that, too. But that does mean we have to learn something from it. It can't be for nothing. It must not be the case that after this wretched period the cabinet says again: we know exactly what we are doing, we aim for that... No, the number of infections must remain low and there must be a plan that will bring us out again, a plan in which the vaccinations play a role, which includes rapid tests, so that we do not get back into this situation again. We can ask this cabinet after everything that has happened and after nine months in this crisis. Second. Does the cabinet actually have the priorities in order within the measures that are now being taken? Is the fundamental right to go to church more important to all of us than the fundamental right to go to school? Are we sure it's all done? It would have been tested at Schiphol Airport since the summer, to prevent new infections from arising. How does the cabinet support the closure of primary schools? Is that because it's a living anklet, a pretty picture of Rob Jetten, did I find, or is there more to it? That, of course, is not enough. Then the cabinet should also indicate what else is invented to appeal to employers, for example, to ensure that people can work at home. My question to the cabinet is not to leave it at that and to come up with a package of support for the children. We have seen large support packages for businesses, but come up with a support package for the children, which includes additional educational opportunities, additional activities, guidance, support, aid for the vulnerable. Look not only at the final exam students, but also at the group 8 students, whose future is at risk, because they would start on the Cito shortly after Christmas. Make a support package for those kids and show them that we're not abandoning this corona generation right now. Two: look after old and new and ask the OMT if there are any opportunities to reopen primary education and daycare. You can say it's only 13 days, but for those kids, every day counts. That is an obligation we must accept. I heard Dijkhoff say he's not against that. That's enough for now. Now let's agree that we're not gonna abandon these kids. If you are talking about aid to companies and workers, then we are also in a different situation than last week. Last week, Minister Wiebes said at the press conference that entrepreneurs who didn't make it with the support that was available, including catering entrepreneurs, should ask companies down the chain to help them. But in the meantime, the whole economy is being shut down, so it is no longer real to say to one entrepreneur: ask for help from the other. You will now have to be more generous in the compensation fixed costs, in the wage support, in the aid for lost turnover, to get through this, because every day this continues costs an incredible amount of jobs and an incredible amount of income. This is also a time to weigh it again. So my request to the cabinet would be: see what can improve in the support package, with the knowledge of today. Yes, that is shortly after the previous assessment of the aid package. But why is that necessary? Because we were standing here six days ago and the cabinet said it was not necessary to take new measures or to ask for new advice from the OMT. And six days later, the entire toolbox of Hugo de Jonge has been turned upside down, so we are now looking at everything on red. Finally, Mr President. This is not about what we are doing here but about the fact that we are now going on public holidays where for the first time many people are not all at the table, not because Dijkhoff's nephews are not here, but because people have died. It's been an incredibly bad year for a lot of people, with a lot of grief. I hope that we can work together to ensure that the coming year will be a year with better prospects, for health, for the economy, for the way in which we come out here, for the way in which we can overcome this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u88	Madam President. This is the last corona debate of this eventful year and it is also at a very moving moment, at the beginning of the lockdown. It's good to reflect and look back. We must conclude that this spring we were not prepared for a pandemic. We have to note that care is overloaded, that resources had been moved to distant countries. We see how much this requires from a government, from a cabinet, from entrepreneurs and from us as a society. Shouldn't we have done more? Shouldn't we have taken measures sooner? Colleagues ask that question and ask themselves that out loud. That is a legitimate question and at the same time suggests that a kind of creability that is not there in this world, in this life. Because in other countries with other measures and at other times things are going badly too, it is also going in the wrong direction. What I am also wondering is: how is it that some people's confidence, between parts of society and the government, is so low and that measures are being followed so badly? In this respect, the background to the Prime Minister's speech was significant. And those are sounds from parts of society where that trust is so low. It points out that it is very important to win the hearts and minds of the Dutch people for these measures, but also for vaccination later. Are all social media channels used, for example, to reach a wide range of target groups? Does it also underline not only the importance of informing us that this comes from one side and is it just telling us what other people should be doing, but also, above all, the importance of communication? That goes in two directions: dialogue, conversation, people need to be convinced. The measures now proposed are, unfortunately, inevitable, given the figures, the R-factor, the imminent rise and the overload of care. My group supports these measures. However, the question is: can the cabinet support why was chosen for five weeks? Why now and why five weeks? It is a good thing that the cabinet has an eye for vulnerable groups, that day-to-day spending remains open and that the visit to psychologist and psychiatrist remains physically possible, but my group also has questions about the handling of air traffic. It remains very bitter to see how many people stand in a row at Schiphol Airport. We are testing and we are asking for test results, but that is outside Schengen and that is international travel. Is it not possible to ask the same question within Schengen? Is the 1.5 meter maintained at Schiphol Airport? Shouldn't that be possible? If that is possible elsewhere, it should certainly be possible there. And an important question: where do we want to stand in mid-January? That is also the question I am asking the cabinet, because let us please use this period to get things in order so that when we open up again in mid-January, it is clear which picket posts the cabinet has slapped. So how do we make sure that we can actually contain it? We need to support the GGD to be ready for proper source and contact research. I also call a good testing infrastructure and vaccination. How's the Cabinet gonna do that? How do we ensure that the roadmap is not only useful for scaling up, but also for scaling down? We also need a regional approach, which turned out to be in the autumn. Tough, complicated, not manageable. That's gotta be doable by now. How do we make that happen? Then the schools. That's a hard point to digest. I was just saying to Mr Klaver in an interrupting debate: that is a bone in the throat. However, in view of the situation, it is ultimately acceptable to my group. Difficult, but acceptable. Because closing schools contributes to lowering the R. I'm referring to the British investigation. The government has looked into it and said that the R-factor is going down by 0.35 if we close schools. This is an international survey which compares 41 countries, and in some countries it falls to 50% of that R factor. So if that's so significant and so clear, then that can be justified. But then it is very important that, as in March, there is room for children to go to school, that children can find a safe place in school in a vulnerable situation. It is good that the cabinet gives the room for this, but encourages schools to do so and encourages municipalities to deal with it generously. Make sure that, maybe with social district teams, those kids are found and they get a safe place at school. What about free software and offering devices to poor families and families with many children? This has also been done in the spring, let us now work on it. Is it possibly an option? This is my last question on this point, before Mr Klaver asks me a strict question in order to be able to open up again, possibly earlier than those five weeks, if there is a much lower figure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr Segers was right to ask me if there is a moment for me when I think that these schools should be closed down. He's referring to the British investigation. This study also distinguishes between age groups with the highest risk of infection. But the most important thing. We'll send them on the OMT's advice. The OMT has in no way advised me, even during the last OMT meeting, to close the primary schools in my hands. I am quite prepared to express my full support for this, if it turns out that this is going to make a huge contribution to reducing the virus. Is Mr Segers perhaps prepared to ask the cabinet with me to ask the OMT to close the vote and the p.o.? This opinion does not address this issue. I'm really looking for a basis for why you would do that. It doesn't say that here. Perhaps we can get additional data for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u90	I have also looked more broadly, for example, at British research and the World Health Organisation. Then you see numbers that really show a significant decrease in that R-factor. At the same time, the cabinet's argument was indeed: yes, but with that we also keep parents at home. That sounded a lot like horse medicine. Maybe it's a horse medicine that works, but it did sound like a complicated argument. You can also call on parents to stay home. Just, I think there's a lot of research that shows that it has a real impact and has a direct impact on the reproduction number. Eventually, I'm looking at those outcomes. If it turns out that it does indeed lead to a reduction in the number of infections and infection, then it is a very painful price but ultimately a price that I am willing to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u91	Firstly, the studies, including those of the World Health Organization to which Mr Segers refers, also highlight the negative effects on the development of children. It is pointed out that the infection rates are so low for everyone under 10 years old that it is said that the contribution they make to the spread of the virus is very minimal. That is also a matter that is mentioned in it. In addition, following the closure of schools this spring, three studies have been carried out by the Cito, Oxford and the municipality of Amsterdam, which show how negative the consequences are for these children. Look, Mr Segers was right to speak to me: is there any possibility that you could support the closure of the schools? I say, on the basis of the OMT advice there is, I see no reason why you should do this now. Does Mr Segers agree with me that we should be able to discuss this with each other during this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u92	It's actually the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u93	I'm gonna ask it again, because there's no answer. The question is actually: are you prepared to ask the cabinet together to ask for additional information from the OMT about this debate? Because I don't see anywhere recommended to close the primary schools, and the OMT is the basis for every decision we make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr Klaver rightly draws the line at 10 years, but that means that it is also partly primary education. First of all, it is under 10 years of infection and transmission of the virus from a different order than over 10 years of age, but that is, in part, primary education. Secondly, of course, something has also been said about vulnerable children. The impact is indeed enormous. For vulnerable children, school must remain an open place. We should be able to invite these kids to just come to school and get education. This also applies, for example, to the 8th grade and to the final examination students. So that customization is possible. Think of practical education as well. An exception is made for this. Thirdly, there is a difference between the thirteen school days now and... I do not want to trivialize it, but I would like to mention just to show that it is of a different order than in the spring. In the spring it was months. Now it's 13 days of school. That's a difference. If Mr Klaver asks me if there is any openness in my mind to ask me again, please ask the OMT and offer unsolicited advice, so they have that space and to look very closely at that justification, I say: of course. That was my question to Mr Klaver, and that is a fair question to me. That openness is there. The figures must be on the table here in the debate. This is where we have to make the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u95	Many thanks for that answer, because I think that is really very important, for the support in society for the measures that are being taken. I therefore hope that the cabinet will ask the OMT to provide a solid basis for the decision to close primary schools, so that we can still weigh that up in this debate. We both do that with open sights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u96	In this crisis, we've been doing business for a long time. So it also happened that the cabinet was good at it and the Chamber wasn't. The Animal Party has called at the beginning for the closure of schools. The cabinet didn't want that. Now I think: we have learned; that price is too high. So that's one point for the cabinet. But now I do have a question for the Christian Union. I understand that the Christian Union Group also thinks it is a very difficult decision. I think you can't separate it from the context of the things that we still allow. Fortunately, the Christian Union also mentioned aviation. But why, for example, in the context of such a very difficult decision to close primary schools, are slaughterhouses still allowed to go crazy, even though they are proven fireplaces?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u97	It is also about the migrant workers who work there: working conditions and living conditions. This is primarily the responsibility of employers. They've already been addressed to that. A number of very bad situations have come to light; there has been intervention. Apart from the question of whether the slaughterhouses are closing or not, those migrant workers live there. They sometimes live so close to each other that it leads to all kinds of infections. In any case, this is primarily an employer's responsibility. If it fails, if there is any wrongdoing, he must pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u98	But this is too easy. Because if you don't watch, if you don't test, if you're not on top of it, you don't see how these vulnerable people are forced to work in the slaughterhouses, where the 1.5 meters cannot be respected. Of course, it's easy to say, "We can't hear anything." Yes, that's because you don't put your ear there, because you're not on top of it, because you leave it to the employers themselves, while it's a demonstrable fireplace; we know that. I find it irresponsible for various reasons, but also in the context of the heavy decision the Christian Union is defending here, namely that primary schools should be closed. I'm thinking do everything else first. Then you can still come to the conclusion that there is no other way. We would like to keep the schools open, but I do not see that this cabinet with the Christian Union is doing everything else you can to bring down the contamination pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u99	However, a balance will have to be struck at a time. It is clear that the Animal Party is not happy with the slaughterhouses, but they do supply food, a very large part of which says: that is important for us. If we say that food should simply remain available, so should legitimate food such as meat. Then it is a bit of an opportunity to say: now I am taking up this crisis in order to bring to the attention of the general public the objective that I have at all and to make a few remarks about it. It's food that belongs to the options. We live in a free country, and it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u100	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr Segers replied to a speech I did not hold. That's a lot of fun, but that wasn't my question. In fact, I think it is quite wrong for Mr Segers to say here: food must be made available. The cabinet has been working on reopening the markets in China for our pork. For many reasons, we should now scale down in slaughterhouses: to protect migrant workers, to reduce the risk of zoonoses. The cabinet has gone exactly the other way. Not because we are starving here, but just to be able to export to China. That's the honest story. Then please tell me, just tell me that you're gonna choose the economic interests and that you're gonna find it easier to close the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u102	It is still a legitimate economic activity. That's one. Two: where there are abuses, I would like to be at the forefront of fighting against them. Together with the SP Group, with Mr Marijnissen, we have submitted an initiative paper against abuses of labour migration. That is a very important point. What I saw at abattoirs, in the housing of migrant workers, I was extremely sorry. What was going on there was such irresponsible behavior on the part of employers that you need to intervene. I want to be on top of that. But that doesn't mean that you can put an entire sector aside. I think our paths are breaking up there, but maybe we can walk the first bit together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr Segers asked the cabinet how it was that part of the population did not have confidence. Then I would like to explore something with the Christian Union: should we not set an example ourselves? It struck me, therefore, that we saw on television that when colleagues were asked whether they would be inoculated, at least no one who was shown there said: I will let them do so. How are we going to ask the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u104	The question was asked to me, and I said at that time: yes, I would have it inoculated. I believe there are all kinds of places where people are going to be standing on top of them with cameras once more. I think that's a little overzealous. But if the vaccine has followed the path it normally has to follow and is fully approved, then I have confidence in those institutions and scientists who say: this protects us. And then it's an act that I don't do primarily for myself, but which I do mostly for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u105	I am glad that we are showing this at least, because those who came into the picture were all responding negatively. So I'm glad to hear this from the Christian Union. I believe that people in the Netherlands can rely on it and can also trust that the vaccine that will be available here really complies with all legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u106	Thank you, I suggest that Mr Segers continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u107	If I could throw in another autobiographical element? It was my parents who were the first generation in their church community to inoculate their children. Both my grandpa's were bowlers. Those bulbs were vaccinated against all kinds of diseases. Then my father said, "You take better care of the bulbs than you do of children." That was the reason to say: boys, I find it untenable, I take the precautions that are there. And that was a reason to have us inoculated. And at least that was the end of the resistance to vaccination in our family. So, against that background, I am inclined to express that confidence and say: this is a good thing; if that is brought to us by science, then I accept it in great gratitude. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the entrepreneurs. It is good that the aid should be extended. I'm happy about that. At the same time, it is also painful to see that a number of companies, a number of web stores, have turnover going through the roof, while others are extremely painful and sometimes the end of a family business. I believe that is what Mr Heerma was referring to. If I may throw in a wild thought, a suggestion. We have had a crisis levy and we have already had a solidarity levy once. It is so skewed that some companies are taking huge advantage of this time while others are getting the hang of it. Can we not organise forms of solidarity between companies? Finally, Madam President. This is a tough time. This is a dark time, the dark days before Christmas. You know: in the Christian tradition, we celebrate the arrival of light at Christmas, just in a very dark time. I hope that gives us courage. Especially with the arrival of the Christmas child, there has been infinite hope. Let's take courage from that, please. The light at the end of the tunnel is visible. The vaccine is coming. We've done the hardest part, but those last pieces are very heavy. Still, we're almost there. And I'm sure it's gonna be Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr President. That we should end this miserable year with a hard lockdown, no one here wanted. I would like to thank the Cabinet for all its efforts, even though we disagree on a number of points. We all see the figures, so no one can deny that it is necessary to take very tough measures, but it is acidic of course. We have seen thick queues in the large multinationals, which can have a bit of a hit, while small entrepreneurs in what the Prime Minister calls the 'dry catering', who simply had it well done, have been closed for weeks now. Local, self-employed entrepreneurs must now close their doors while the large multinationals have been able to cash for weeks. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures themselves. Fortunately, Mr Klaver has already mentioned it. The fact that schools have to close is a very serious decision. I would like to admit to the Cabinet that the Animal Party was wrong at the beginning of the crisis. We then insisted on closing the schools, and the cabinet would not. The cabinet was right. We have all learned that the price is very high. Too high. Vulnerable children should be able to go to school. All children have the right to go to school. In that context, the other choices were alienated. It may be necessary. It may be necessary that the schools should eventually close, but not if you have not first tried to reduce all the other things that are much less profound. Then it is surprising that aviation is still being dealt with with with velvet gloves. Then it is very surprising that the slaughterhouses are not closing. I understand people like to go to church. I would like to give it to everyone, but I think it is quite important to close down the schools, where children's rights are at stake: one is and the other is not. The Party for Animals therefore joins GroenLinks' plea. The price for closing the primary schools is too high. We call on the Cabinet to do everything else that can and leaves them lying around, and to leave the schools open. Mr. Chairman. We have heard the Prime Minister over the last few months, it was in September, I believe, talk about the intrinsic motivation that we need to have with each other in order to overcome this crisis, to ensure that we do not put each other at risk. I very much agree with that, but during this crisis the Animal Party has repeatedly pointed out that this intrinsic motivation of the government to protect public health in general is lacking. Then I think: yes, bad example does not follow. In the corona crisis, the cabinet has shown that, if it is very acute, it is taking measures to protect health, but if it is a little further away, if it is a little further in the future, then the cabinet always bows to short-term economic interests. We now see the consequences, for example on the ic's: there are resistant fungi among a quarter of the people who land on the ic's. Half those people die. We've been warned about that for ten years. An important cause is the scattering of mold warriors in agriculture, near the flower bulbs that Mr Segers was just talking about. The cabinet has been deaf to the warnings of scientists for ten years and does not even now come to a change by saying: we must do this differently. Because public health is threatened by the use of agricultural poison, by poor air quality, by an unhealthy food environment and you name it all. Where is the intrinsic motivation of the cabinet to ensure better basic health in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. A question to the US Secretary of State. We have pointed out that corona is not a black swan. It's a zoonoses. They're disruptive, but they don't just fly in. We're being warned about that, so we can see them coming. There are risks in the Dutch livestock sector. There are risks in Dutch trade policy, which directly contributes to deforestation. The motion was taken happily. The VWS Minister said: I come with a response before the end of the year. How's that going? Because we cannot afford a new pandemic created by the way we deal with animals and nature. Mr. Chairman. We're going into Christmas. I would like to thank everyone, and certainly the people in the cabinet, who have had a very difficult year because they had to cope with this crisis. So rest a little, but think yourself up, too. Zoonosis like corona is disruptive. It is not the only disruption that threatens, so we will have to prevent future pandemics. But we also know that the climate crisis will be even more disruptive if we do not resolve it. We propose that, after the ceremony, the cabinet make a proposal to organise a press conference at least once a month on tackling the climate crisis, because if we see disruption coming and we do not act now, then you have no right to ask people for difficult tasks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u110	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u111	Madam President. In these dark days before Christmas there are many people who sleep badly and lie awake. That may be true of care workers. That's how a nurse grabbed us yesterday: "I'm sure you'll support this, won't you? Let it be clear that care welcomes the measures." I noticed that many healthcare workers are concerned that they cannot provide the care they so badly want to provide to people. They are afraid that they will eventually have to sell no because of the large numbers. I would like to put a question to the government: what is the situation with the implementation of the motion that I tabled together with Mr Veldman of the VVD, which was adopted by the Chamber, in which the government is urged to urgently increase care capacity outside the hospital and to concentrate corona care in a number of hospitals? What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Mr. Chairman. The SGP says to that nurse and to the other people in our country: yes, it is unfortunately necessary to adopt stricter measures. The contagion rates are getting too fast. The rack in the care gets out. Tightening up is necessary, but how far do we go? The Netherlands is locked for five weeks. The lockdown's gonna chop it up. That hurts. Where Christmas holidays are normally synonymous with cozy hustle and bustle, streets and shops are empty. People were also awake last night from the measures announced yesterday. I'm thinking of a young entrepreneur I heard about late last night. He had just invested heavily in his company. 2020 should be a top year. Everyone said your plans are perfect. Now he's in big trouble with his family. He does not receive State aid; the reference year was last year. The bank says: yes, we can't stay busy; you'll have to pay off your loans sometime. That is only one example now. My question to the cabinet is: do you have an eye for the harrowing cases, for the small businessmen who are excluded from the arrangements and who are 'no' from the banks? Can there be a very close look at the holes in that? Mr. Chairman. Whoever didn't sleep well last night, I'm sure all the shopkeepers are. They worked hard to make their case coronaproof, and now, just before the holidays, they have to close the place down. I have a question about that. We see that a number of building markets and catering establishments require take-out services and ordering services and are made possible, but should it not be made possible for all shops to provide such a take-out service? How do we prevent bread robberies because grocery stores suddenly start stunting non-food items? You run into things right away. Think of certain shops that can sell baby stuff, while a shop that specializes in baby stuff has to close. How's that? Mr. Chairman. Then education. It is not for nothing that much has been said about this in this debate. It's a difficult dilemma. The hard lesson from spring was that school closure is very problematic for vulnerable children, due to problems at home, learning retardation or limitations. Instead of tailor-made work, the cabinet again opts for an overall school closure, including primary and special education. That's what makes a lot of emotions go away. We just got a letter from MIND, a platform for mental health. He says, "Don't do this; it really leads to mental problems." Would you like to reflect on that again? Would it not be a good thing if this measure were to continue, that special education and primary schools could be reopened immediately after Christmas holidays? Mr. Chairman. Many older people were awake last night. They look up against the coming dark period; the need for loneliness is so great. Fortunately, nursing homes remain open for visitors. But do the municipalities have enough focus on the problem of home-living elderly people? What role can voluntary organisations and diaconal initiatives play in this? Mr. Chairman. Over 2,000 years ago, it was night too. Those who did not sleep then were shepherds who kept watch over their flock. They were surprised by an angel who said they didn't have to fear, because Jesus was born. His arrival and proximity give joy and tranquillity, also perhaps................................................................................................................ We wish that inner peace and peace to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the partial lockdown, we pulled a big hammer out of the closet, the Prime Minister said a few weeks ago. It's not enough. The idea was that from the summer onwards we would dance with the virus and occasionally use the hammer. At the moment, we've deployed the best we can. But that current situation is hard for a lot of Dutch people. For those million Dutch who are dealing with delayed treatments and waiting for care. For entrepreneurs who have to watch their business fail without hope. For people who lose their jobs. It's good to learn from the past. The wretched message is that part of the suffering could have been avoided. The cabinet acted too late in a number of respects. OMT opinions were partly followed up. Unclear communication, which has been discussed in every debate. And vague advice, too. Polding among all stakeholders. The testing wasn't in order. The source and contact investigation wasn't in order either. It is also arbitrary: Black Friday, full potholes, long rows at Schiphol and mass gatherings at IKEA, while others in the country have to watch how to suffer and isolate themselves. Rutte's swaggering policy isn't working out very well. He hasn't been able to protect us enough from that virus. I appreciate his commitment, but the result is not good enough. Mr. Chairman. I have just said it in an interrupting debate with Mr Dijkhoff: I wonder if the cabinet is focusing on the right things. Because I was surprised to see that the cabinet has been asking the OMT for advice on two things in recent days: increasing alcohol sales and keeping shops open for longer. While the country is on fire, this cabinet is concerned with how we can ensure that people can buy beer and alcohol longer. And pay attention: the idea was that we would protect our vulnerable. That was the main objective. We do not succeed in this, because at the moment we see a huge contamination in the nursing homes, 600 in total. Apart from the visible vulnerable, there are also vulnerable who are invisible. Think of the people with flexible jobs, homeless people andzzp'ers. There was even the story of a teacher who told me she misses students because they are homeless and now have to take lessons from the car. They don't have a computer. They can't hook up. A lot of students have lost too. Mr. Chairman. The aid packages are being extended. That is very good, but the question is whether that is enough to save many entrepreneurs from bankruptcy. All those people with a restaurant, a shop, a gym or a taxi really deserve more help. I spoke to an entrepreneur in the market who doesn't get any support. The only thing he sold was things for the holidays, namely trollies. He said: there is no one who thinks of me, I can't go anywhere, there is no one who buys trollies for vacation, because hardly anyone goes on vacation. Mr. Chairman. Specific attention to the cleaners. I have received a letter on this, and I think my colleagues too. Some of the cleaners are not in permanent service and then the situation arises that in the same team one colleague is in permanent service and the other one is not, one gets a care bonus and the other one doesn't. What can the government do for this group of people? We often get urgent advice from the cabinet, but they are too widely interpreted in my opinion. We read again about conversations with employers to promote homework. But every time we have these conversations, we've been reading them for months, and the question is whether that works. There are also solutions provided by the OMT that are not being followed, because we are not seeing a significant reduction in mobility at the moment. We see that it doesn't happen that more people go home to work. Isn't there a positive view of people's behavior? I've drawn attention to that a few times. Is it taken into account that people don't show the behavior we ask of them? Eventually, it's a human who transfers the virus and not that virus itself. Now, I understand that behavioral scientists are being consulted, but are they also in the OMT? Yesterday at the press conference, the Prime Minister actually didn't say anything about the vaccine. Mr De Jonge tweeted that the vaccine will be our "ticket to freedom." I really think those are the wrong expectations. My conversations with scientists indicate that even if we have a vaccine, the corona pandemic is not resolved. The WHO warns that testing policy and surveillance should simply continue to be strict. The vaccine will hopefully reduce the pressure on the ic and on the care, but infections will continue to occur. I ask the Minister what this means for the Cabinet, for how we deal with the virus next year. Mr. Chairman. The citizens must stay at home massively. According to the figures 52% of the infections occur in the home setting. I filed a motion on October 14 to request a toolkit and an information campaign to prevent corona transmission at home. How's that going? How do people know what to do to prevent home contamination? Finally, Mr President. I am pleased that many Dutch Muslims have responded to the call not to celebrate the Sacrifice with others. I notice that we are now going to run the risk, with the relaxation around Christmas, that the Christmas holiday itself will lead to additional ic-recordings and hospitalizations. If I understand correctly from the OMT, that means 120 more ICU admissions and 700 hospitalizations as a result of that home visit. The question is, is it worth it to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS. No, Mr. Azarkan, don't talk to the minister. Mrs. Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u115	Mr. Chairman. Last night we received an e-mail from an 83-year-old lady from Amersfoort who had looked at Prime Minister Rutte with tears in her eyes. She wrote that she was so happy that after the first lockdown light shone on the horizon again. And yes, as a precaution, she keeps her distance from her children and grandchildren. But she's sad and scared of what's coming. She fears isolation. The dark days in her 83 years were rarely so dark. The blow of this new lockdown works many times harder than the first, because these people know what it means. Please, let us not forget them in the coming weeks. The numbers don't lie. Nearly 10,000 infections a day. If you know that 1% of them have to go to hospital and 0.35% end up in intensive care and that the corona patients stay on that ic for an average of 16 days, everyone understands that the figures are dramatic, especially for care and the flow. Are we on the blisters of Black Friday now? Because how does this minister explain that huge increase? How is he so surprised by that? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday there were a total of 1,026 people in intensive care. About half of them are corona patients. From 1 January there should be 1,700 ic-beds. Those beds are there, but there's no staff. How many beds can we really scale if we take that into account? Do we have enough beds in the next few weeks? If not, what then? We have all seen the images of the masses at Schiphol; it has been said here before. Traveling is urgently not recommended, but nobody else gets in the way. As far as we are concerned, that is no longer possible. Same goes for homework. The OMT advises to make stricter agreements about working at home. The Minister will discuss this with employers' organisations in order to repeat the urgent advice to work at home. But what's he thinking about? Keep repeating an urgent advice to "work at home unless" doesn't work. That's way too noncommittal. We've got to get rid of that noncommittality. It's not really true that students have to stay home and let their parents work at home, is it? That can't be the truth, can it? Mr. Chairman. I haven't heard from anyone about it, but I'd like to know what's going on with old and new. No cooperation, no maximum of two people; how are we going to maintain that? Don't we burden our police officers with an impossible assignment? I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. 50PLUS thanks the cabinet that was learned from the first lockdown. Now the nursing homes do not lock up massively and the daily spending remains open to support the caregivers, but it has just been mentioned as the number of infections in nursing homes is increasing. Are there any additional measures to be taken to combat these increasing infections? We understand that locking people in their rooms making them eat alone is a tragedy. How are we going to ensure that, under safe conditions, we can still organise a Merry Christmas celebration for these people? Mr. Chairman. Not only the virus but also the announced hard lockdown is going to hit people, companies, employees and self-employed hard. How does the cabinet quickly get the additional support and recovery package presented last week operational? This is now urgently needed, especially since an even larger group of entrepreneurs and their families are directly affected by their livelihoods. During the period around the holidays, many entrepreneurs achieve a large proportion of the annual turnover. How are we gonna compensate for that? How are entrepreneurs helped to cope with this heavy blow? Mr. Chairman. I have just asked in an interrupting debate with Mr Dijkhoff: what is essential? Does the deli stay open and my favorite chocolate shop? That is essential to me, but I can imagine that others think differently. If we're gonna get rid of packages, can we buy tickets, Christmas stamps and a State lottery ticket? Can the cabinet elaborate on this? How do you make the divorce? What's essential? Mr. Chairman. Is there another regime for homeless people at the moment, so that they are not sent out into the streets during the day? Are there any extra places? Then the school lockdown. During the first wave, many students were completely out of sight. Can we stop that now? Finally, Mr. Chairman. There are colleagues who have also mentioned it: Christmas is coming. Is there anything the cabinet can do towards Christmas for lonely elderly people? A call to older people's unions, to volunteers and neighbors: look at each other. Make sure it's a nice Christmas for everyone and no one gets forgotten. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the freedom of people in the Netherlands was reduced in an unprecedented way. The abuse of power is appalling. The bill is not paid by politicians, ministers or other administrators, but by people who have worked hard their whole lives and now lose everything for nothing. The social, cultural, economic and medical crisis has been further deepened by a cabinet that refuses to look at the facts. And what are the facts? The IFR is 23% worldwide and 0.7% in the Netherlands, similar to a heavy flu. Normalized over-death rates are not higher than in previous years. And there are 500 people with a positive PCR test on the ic. In this so-called corona pandemic a total of 9,000 people died in the Netherlands with corona. Of these, only 500 were under the age of 65. This cabinet sends on positive PCR tests and does not conduct additional clinical studies. All parameters of the coronadashboard are therefore debatable. The number of people with a positive PCR test, which is mistakenly called an infection, is correlated with the number of decreased tests and does not give any reason for drastic measures. Percentages and absolute numbers are used randomly. 130 people die a day from cancer and 100 people die a day from cardiovascular disease. The Prime Minister said yesterday that 60 people die from corona a day, but that's just not true. On the coronadashboard a number of 35 is mentioned and even that number is doubtful. Next, this cabinet takes measures that are demonstrably wrong, measures that destroy society. We have already talked about unhealthy mouth caps, asymptomatic PCR tests, the one-and-a-half meter nonsense and the useless closure of the catering and shops. So is the lack of preparation. The total apathy of scaling up the number of ic-beds is inexplicable and in relation to the collateral damage is now very culpable. And enough has been said about the closure of school today. Incomprehensible and incredibly bad. Mr. Chairman. The most appalling thing is the unwillingness to look at solutions that do not destroy society. The only solution the cabinet believes in is a vaccine, while there are countless solutions available. But this cabinet refuses to look at targeted protection for the elderly and vulnerable, for good ventilation in buildings, for potential medicines, such as ivermectin, which are boycotted by the government or perhaps the most realistic solution, namely to accept death as part of life. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister and his cabinet do not notice the consequences of the cross-border measures. They don't have a company that goes bankrupt. They don't have any employees to fire. They don't have a pension that they're gonna lose, not a house that needs to be auctioned off by the bank or kids that have to go to another school. They have just been able to enjoy their student time with physical education and human contact with others. They have a huge salary and glorify in their moment of power, determining that 2 million entrepreneurs lose everything and that Dutch people lose their freedom. Not because it's necessary, but because it's possible. Mr. Chairman. I myself am an entrepreneur, one of the few in this Chamber. I should like to express my shame at the actions of this cabinet. Shutting down the catering industry, where there are hardly any contaminations. Killing the fairgrounds that will never come back. The entertainment industry is closed by this cabinet, while a festival can be organized outside. Retailers and retailers are murdered and the cabinet pretends that with some support crumbs the place will be saved. Mr. Chairman. Many shops make up half of their turnover during the Christmas period. The time of this lockdown is therefore downright repulsive. Seasonal companies are still excluded because the reference periods are still not representative. The fireworks industry has legally bought fireworks, but is now stuck with a huge noose. Sport centres and social enterprises with adjacent restaurants are not supported because it is too difficult for the Hague bureaucrats to link up a few SBI codes. Christmas tree vendors gave away their Christmas trees for free crying yesterday just to get rid of them. And why shouldn't an order and take-out service be allowed in shops, such as in the catering industry? And why can't hairdressers just open regulated? Why are the rules completely illogical? I may invite my mother-in-law home to my six-person family, but I'm not allowed to visit my mother-in-law with that same family. And why do you get to sleep in a hotel, but can't room service be delivered? That is completely coronaproof to organize. Essential stores are allowed to sell non-essential items to their heart's content. Isn't that a little unfair for shops that normally sell these kinds of items? Mr. Chairman. The euthanasia of SMEs is a fact. As far as the Forum for Democracy is concerned, the cabinet has crossed a critical line. Without looking closely at the facts and figures, disproportionate measures are being taken that are catastrophic for large groups in society, for entrepreneurs, children, young people and students. They all pay a huge price for the failure of this cabinet. The contrast between the severity of the coronavirus and the dystopian cabinet measures is now so great that this cabinet has completely lost its credibility. Add to that the fearmongery that leads to the illusion of government protection. Protection from what? Against the corona virus or against this government? If we combine this with the lies about group immunity and the number of coronadods, there can only be one conclusion: The Netherlands is deliberately helped to the philistines by a cabinet that refuses to make a proper balance of interests and ignores the economic and medical collateral damage of the measures. This cabinet must be sent home as soon as possible and therefore, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, I will table a motion of censure against this cabinet in the second term. The Netherlands deserves better, and I therefore assume that the Dutch will vote their freedom back on 17 March in large numbers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u119	Madam President. The Lancet recently published a scientific report showing that the mortality rate would hardly be affected by a lockdown. According to The Lancet, the profits of fewer COVID-19 deaths would not outweigh the numbers dying from loneliness, drugs and drinking and so on. Dr. Matthias an der Heiden of the German Robert Koch Institute also warns against such negative consequences of a lockdown. In his view, there is not enough attention to that. International studies describing the reverse side of the corona measures should at least ensure that the cabinet has a vision of how these effects can be minimised. I'd like to hear more about that. Research by the RIVM shows that 50,000 healthy years of life have been lost due to delay of treatments. The Minister responded as follows. She states that the health damage of the delayed care is kept as low as possible and that it is therefore important to control the coronavirus and the infections together. But this looks like a tunnel vision, doesn't it? We want to know exactly what is going to happen to limit this delayed care. Madam President. Horeca entrepreneurs, hairdressers, SMEs: they want to deliver added value to their customers. They can't do that now. Companies and lives are ruined despite the support. What is the economic damage of all these measures? Minister Hoekstra has just spoken of a thunderous blow. Is there anything more to be said about that? Does the Prime Minister take sufficient account of the general interest? The measures are in favour of large companies. Can the Prime Minister make an appeal, for example to the Dutch people, to order messages and other essentials as much as possible from small businesses belonging to small and medium-sized enterprises? In a previous debate, the Prime Minister thankfully said that he is also taking vitamin D. We understand that this is very important. Can he ensure in the information that risk groups are made aware that a potential vitamin D deficiency also has adverse effects, especially on corona? Then I'm very curious about the corona app. We haven't heard much about that lately. How are the results? Then there is the lack of clarity that some of my colleagues have already mentioned. At the Primera store, you can pick up a package, but no magazines. And at department stores, you can buy sausage, but not winter mittens. Meals can be delivered by a restaurant, but room service is not allowed in a hotel room. That's gonna cause a lot of incomprehension. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u120	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mr. Chairman. The communication of this cabinet has been very critical since the start of the corona crisis. In the run-up to this hard lockdown, policy and communication are also moving in all directions. Why did individual rulers with or without the Prime Minister's knowledge leak the hard lockdown to the press on Monday morning, so that many people panicked and went shopping Christmas just as quickly and it seemed Black Monday and that while increasing the number of infections is partly due to overcrowded shopping streets on Black Friday a few weeks ago? How is it possible? Who in the cabinet undermines government policy all the time? Or was this a calculated incredibly stupid move? Are we going to see the results of leaking the cabinet in two weeks' time? Is the cabinet going to conduct an internal investigation? Why is the cabinet mopping with the crane open and keeping the Netherlands in the fog? And can the Prime Minister explain what this lockdown is sending with? No one has a glass ball, but what's the perspective? People have a right to know that. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna keep shopping for Christmas. The NOW scheme for entrepreneurs can be applied for longer. The cabinet has therefore opened the door, but in the next few weeks it should have done so in terms of turnover. Therefore, can a seasonal arrangement be added to the scheme so that the shops get Christmas and survive and the workers keep their jobs? Mr. Chairman. People are still being asked by their employer to come to work. They have no right to child care and the children are at home. I spoke to a working mother this morning who was asked by her employer to take vacation days. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? What can these workers do about this? I agree with the questions about closing primary schools and their impact on vulnerable children. Mr. Chairman. Then vaccinate. General practitioners are concerned about the consequences of the hard lockdown and the vaccination campaign. The minister mentioned January 4th. It is almost that, and preparations must now be made. What are the consequences for the vaccination campaign? Then I have a few more questions about the homeless and homeless. In the lockdown, extra funding is allocated to shelter, but is now in the picture how many homeless people need shelter and is that tightly regulated? Does everyone have a roof over their heads and is everyone safe? Is it an idea, like other European countries, to introduce an additional voucher system for homeless people, with vouchers that they can hand over to the shelter? And can the food banks for miniature government dinner vouchers be distributed for Christmas, so that minimums can still enjoy Christmas dinner and the local catering industry is also supported? Finally, Mr President. I'll keep asking. How many care workers have been billed the hard-earned health bonus for Christmas? How many more people are waiting? And is there any more information about the application of the healthcare bonus for healthcare professionals working from a personalized budget? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u122	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 45 minutes, so I shall suspend the sitting until 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u123	Mr President, could it be a suggestion to link the dinner break to that immediately? Then we don't have to suspend twice, but we can do it in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u124	Then why don't we suspend until 6:00? Or is that too long? Until 5:45, I hear. Okay, I'll suspend the meeting until 5:45, and then everyone must have eaten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u125	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister: I have not limited the number of interruptions, but I reserve the right to intervene when things get out of hand. I say that Mr Azarkan asked most of the questions in the first period, and you will know that before you say: why not me and the rest. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr. Chairman. The intention is that after me, if it were up to us, you will talk about the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport about testing, vaccination and vulnerable groups and the Minister for Medical Care about the care itself, the labour market and zoonoses. I'll talk about the other subjects myself. I think it would be a good idea to start with the question of what to do next. And then I also answer the question why until January 19, why a period of five weeks? The whole point is that on 12 January we will have to review it. Then we'll be sitting over a week after old and new. We hope, of course, that everyone will abide by all the rules in the Christmas season, and also in the old and new stages. But if that is not the case and the number of infections would increase, then it will be clear by 12 January. That's why we said we're going to see what's going on on 12 January. This will then lead to the adoption of phasing-out measures on 19 January and on 18 January in the case of education. In fact, what we were hoping to do in December would have gone better than we thought. We want to end up back to 3 ic shots a day, with the known 1,200 infections a day. That's 35 a week or 7 per 100,000. But we know that if we're in a descending leg and we're approaching that 3, you can look at that at about 10 ic-recordings. The expectation is, if it's all going well, that you'll be up against that around January 12th, but then everything will have to cooperate. That's what's gonna happen next time. Look, the longer-term perspective, we've talked about it more often... after all, it's a combination of testing and, above all, vaccinating. Both will be discussed by the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport in a moment. That is the longer-term perspective and there is also the exit perspective from it and what you would like to see on 12 January. Then you will have to look very carefully and talk carefully with the OMT about what you will do. You can't say you'll let go of everything. Then you will have to look very carefully at what can and cannot be done and how to ensure that you do not repeat the mistake of this summer. Against this background, I shall also be speaking later on about education, because I have, of course, heard questions about primary education, but that is not so easy. This is in response to the questions about what to do as of 12 January and why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u127	Was this a brief introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u128	No, I didn't have an introduction. This was the first question. Next I come to the support packages, education, shop closures and some other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u129	About those I.C. shots, about 10 or 3 or those 1,200 infections a day. I think a lot of people are wondering: we're gonna keep this up until January 19th and then? But above all: what does that depend on? Do I understand correctly that the Prime Minister says to wait until we're on three ICU shots a day, or is it the 10 or is it something in between? Can the Prime Minister clarify that? Where should we stand on 19 January, before the Prime Minister says that it is moving in the right direction and that we can relax? What are you aiming at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u130	No, I can't say. There really is the answer that Dijkhoff gave and that I have also given many times myself. It's always a mix of numbers. An important factor in this mix is the number of infections, the number of ic intakes and the health care situation. You're looking at all these numbers. It is a very wide palette and ultimately also the combination between it. You're also looking at what's possible at that point in time in terms of kicking out new infection sites, so you're on a level that you can really kick out emerging infection sites again. So you're looking at all that stuff. One of the numbers you're looking at and which I'm picking out right now isn't the only number, because you're looking at a connection, a mix............................................................................................................................................. In the end, you want to be vigilant at that level. Then you're on about three I.C. shots. That's 35 per 100,000 a week and 7 a day. 7 per day is 49 per week but ultimately you try to send on a weekly basis at about 35, up to 7 per day. But you don't have to be on it. As long as you're in that decline and it's heading in the right direction, you can, if you've got the trend right, also actually see what's possible in mid-December at 10 ic-recordings combined with all the other data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u131	We are a little concerned because the answer is not clear. I do not mean to say that it would be easy to give an answer on how to control this virus, but I do think that the cabinet should clarify what is being tested on 19 January whether or not we are going to relax. We know that there are also warnings, for example from economists who say: 'Watch out, maybe take the short pain now, even though it is very intense, but it will be more useful for the longer term.' They may even warn and say: be careful not to relax too quickly. So I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister if he can shed some light on it. It has been said so many times here in the Chamber that we are talking about extremely heavy measures for a lot of people. But if there is so little perspective, it will of course be even more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u132	The perspective is, of course, that we manage to reduce the number of infections per day. This translates into the infections per week and into the situation in the hospitals, the nursing departments and the intensive care departments. The goal, the strategy regarding the virus is maximum control. In addition, you send out what happens in hospitals and what happens to people with and vulnerable health and the elderly. You want to get your eyes back on the virus. To all these things we send. I'm trying to get a number out of it right now. I say immediately that this is not the only figure we are looking at, because we are doing it in conjunction with all the other figures. We've used that here before. That's the number of ic-recordings as a pars pro toto, but you also look at the toto and not just at the pars.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mrs. Marijnissen, after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u134	The Prime Minister did just say in his reply: we will aim to be able to control that virus later. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to tell us a little bit more about it, because of course one is connected with the other. Do we have the test policy and the source and contact research in such a way that, hopefully, if we get to that level as soon as possible after 19 January, we will be able to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yeah, we think so. The test policy has been greatly scaled up. If you look at the source and contact research, you can see that according to the last count, 7,700 people work at the GGDs, so you can also do full source and contact research far above the level of that 1,200 per day. So you can do more there. But here, too, the situation in hospitals is very important. How do you ensure that there is sufficient room in hospitals for the other procedures and operations that need to be carried out and that they are not suppressed by patients with corona? That is why that figure of 3 and that intermediate figure of 10 as part of a mix of numbers is so relevant. Because if you go to that 10 and you go down and you don't go down immediately, which of course you do, then you know that if people are lying there between 15 and 25 days, you're sitting on about 200 to 250 ic-beds filled with people with corona. That is a somewhat manageable number and more than half, 60%, lower than what we have now. So that's why we're saying this about those 10. That is what we said in December. If we had seen the numbers heading in the right direction earlier, you could have expanded there a little bit. Again, really in conjunction with the rest. That is also something we will discuss in detail with the OMT. How does it relate to the rest of the infections? What about the total number of infections? That is, of course, an extremely important figure. That's very high now, 90,000, and I'm thinking a little bit higher by now. How's the R number coming? You're looking at all these numbers. But once again, a declining number of ICIs, down to that 10 and down, is a very important figure in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u136	Speaking of ic's and hospitals, shocking news from Mr Kuipers is just jumping on the news. He says the engagements are being withdrawn, that he's already worried about next weekend and that it's going to go all wrong. The Prime Minister has had a nice speech yesterday, and I am sure he and many others will agree that this will be held in front of television. I think 8 or 9 million people have looked at that, even more than last time. Compliments for that. But why are you actually... It is, of course, partly due to your own cabinet policy. I therefore regret that you did not just keep an honest story yesterday towards those 8 million Dutch people. Why didn't you tell them that we need to take action and that they are far-reaching, once again, to a large extent do you even have our support here, but that you are also responsible for aborting care? Mr Kuipers says: we are in big trouble now, because we have too few people; I have to get people back from leave, because things are going completely wrong in the care. That is also because you, at least as Prime Minister of the last ten years, have broken down the concern. Why didn't you just tell that story straight in front of the people at home, because then they could've heard it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u137	Well, as a percentage of national income, the total expenditure on care has increased enormously. That is by far the fastest growing budget line in the last ten years. It was one of the fastest growing budget lines, if not the fastest growing budget lines, even before I was allowed to fill this fine office. This has to do with the fact that care naturally innovates and new things are possible. These costs are therefore increasing enormously. By now, we're at about 100 billion a year. This means that out of every €8 that we earn together in the Netherlands, €1 now goes to health care, in which 1.3 million people work. It's great that that happens. We have the best health care in the world. We belong to the absolute, absolute summit of Europe and of the world. So I really don't recognize what Mr Wilders is saying here. Moreover, I do not think it is right for the people who work in the care sector. I've said that before. I see you're willing to respond, but I'm sorry, Mr. Wilders, but I'm going to go on for a while, seriously, just as seriously between you and me. You talk more often about the breakdown in the care. That does not do justice, not even to the people who work there: all those nurses and all those doctors who work in front of their eyes every day, day in, day out, doing a great job. It is quite insulting to them too. They should be proud that they belong to and work for a sector that is counted among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u138	But they don't do that because of the VVD. They do so despite the VVD, because Mr Rutte has completely destroyed the concern. And he's gonna sit here and lie about all that, but that's what happened. And it's terrible that he's now blaming me over those people's backs to offend those people. Ú has offended the people. Ú has offended the care. What did you do? You've closed down five hospitals in the last few years. You've closed down 19 intensive care units. You've closed 25 emergency rooms. That's Mark Rutte's concern. Then don't tell me something's coming up! Yeah, no wonder something's coming up. In the last ten years, you have allowed 900,000 people into the Netherlands. You've opened the borders. Almost a million people have joined. Yes, of course there must be extra money to the care! But those dikes, Mr. Rutte, have raised you by 10 centimeters because more people have come in, but that's where a wave of a metre goes. That is, of course, totally inadequate. And then you can look around you, but those are the facts. You let half of Europe in. Then you say, "Yes, we spent a little more on care." I think so! Because a million people have joined us. You've closed down half the care. You're joking about that to the voter. You're just pretending we have the best care. That's not true. The problems in the care now, which are now being discussed, that the engagements are being withdrawn... This too was in the news today. You don't have this if you have a good care, do you? In fact, 50,000 human years, 50,000 years of life, have been lost, according to an investigation. And only 28% of people who have not received sufficient care have been counted, so probably hundreds of thousands of years of life have been lost this year alone, hundreds of thousands of years of life. And if you had taken care of it, Mr. Rutte, it wouldn't have happened. So please have an honest chat for the television in the future. Tell those people what you want. That's your own freedom. But also tell them that your party, the VVD, simply demolished the care because you're stingy and careless about that good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u139	It is really bullshit what Mr Wilders is saying here about health care. I am very proud of our concern, and so should Mr Wilders. But Mr Wilders has to tell the whole story. If he were to tell the whole story, he would also report that the whole world, Europe, America, South America, Asia, all of Africa, is facing this virus, which does not have a short-term healthcare appeal, but it creates a long-term burden on nursing departments and intensive care departments. It is a peak load of unprecedented magnitude, which goes on forever. For this reason, in our strategy of maximum control of the coronavirus, we are making every effort to ensure, in addition to protecting people with vulnerable health and the elderly, that health care can continue to function as well as possible for those who do not have corona. That's a hell of a job, because you're not dealing with a short peak here, but with a very long peak. Mr Wilders has just advocated keeping the schools open, keeping the shops open, reopening the cafés. It would be irresponsible to do that when we have such a high number of reproductions and such an enormous pressure on health care. You can't do it both at once. You can't and you can't argue that Mr Wilders is here. He says he stands for care; he thinks he is, but I insist that he doesn't; I think he talks very ugly about care and calls for all the measures to be taken to avoid care, so that he can also focus on others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u140	I don't talk ugly about care. I'm talking ugly about Prime Minister Rutte. I talk ugly about the VVD, because the VVD has demolished care in the Netherlands. You have added just enough money to give care to those 900,000 foreigners you have admitted. For the rest, you have ensured that, if there is a crisis like today, hundreds of thousands of years of life are lost. This year, 1 million people received late care, delayed care. A number of people still haven't gotten that kind of care. In the hospitals there are people who are increasingly ill because they have been receiving delayed care. Yesterday's report by the National Health Authority shows that this is because of this delayed care. You did that. I didn't do that. You should be ashamed that you have destroyed the care in the Netherlands, that you have closed down hospitals, that you have closed down emergency services, that you have closed down ic's. All the Dutch who are watching now know that you really do not close those care institutions if you are well ahead of the care. Finally, Mr President, the Prime Minister accused me that you cannot want both things and that the PVV wants to keep the schools and shops open. Firstly, I did not say at all that we want to keep the schools open. That's just a big lie. I didn't say that. Show me where I said that, because that's just not true. I hope you apologize for that. Secondly, the shops. Yes, Mr Rutte, today at Nieuwsuur an epidemiologist, Mr Olaf Dekkers, says: in science we do not know if it helps; closing the shops has a symbolic value. That's exactly what I'm talking about. You don't know what you're doing. You're just shooting. Mr De Jonge is pouring out his toolbox and cannot even indicate the impact of the measures. And epidemiologists, not just me as a politician, say it has symbolic value. So what are you doing? You make the Netherlands bankrupt, you lock the Netherlands, the catering companies, the shopkeepers and their employees go to hell because of your policy, and in the meantime you destroy the care. I'm not mad at the care. I'm mad at the VVD and Mark Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u141	You can't do both at once. Mr Wilders claims that he stands up for health care. I don't think he does. I don't think he's doing a good job of caring. He talks very negative about the care, but he chooses his own words and despite all those negative words, he thinks he stands up for the care. We saw that 80 more people were added to the nursing and ICU departments today. Yesterday there were 100, net; they're net increases, aren't they? So you see the number going up again and you see what that does to the people who work there. You cannot and cannot say that you stand up for care and refuse to accept difficult measures that are necessary to stop the rise and eventually turn it into a decrease. With this kind of huge number of infectious agents in the Netherlands, there are against the 100,000................................................................................................................................................................. You must ensure that the number of contacts is reduced throughout the Netherlands. That is the most important call I would like to repeat here tonight: we must all ensure that we reduce the number of contacts. Also included is that you can no longer have what we saw yesterday in the shopping streets in some major cities: rows for the shops, rows of people waiting to get in, crowded also in the shops. Well, that's irresponsible. Then I'm not saying that these people aren't all trying to stick to the 1.5 meters, but that does mean that in the sum total it's simply too much. And then it is irresponsible to argue in favour of not taking such a measure. I say this to Mr Wilders as leader of the largest opposition party, who also has a special responsibility there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u142	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u143	I won't repeat it all, except for one thing. Because the Prime Minister doesn't go into that. It's good for the people at home that I repeat it again. The conclusion is that I can't get an answer. And it's also annoying, of course, because it's true. What did you do? Every time, you don't respond to that. I'll ask you three times. During your reign, you have closed down 5 hospitals, 19 intensive care units and 25 emergency services in recent years. If that's what you've done, then you can't talk about it somehow. You don't want to tell me why you did that. Big fat cuts! Important hospitals, from IJsselmeer to here in The Hague, emergency places where people went because they had a heart attack or I know anything, intensive cares that we really need. You've closed 19 of them. You cannot insist that your party and yourself are doing well with care if you do not even have the courage to say anything about it and that this is 100% true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u144	In the time that I have been Prime Minister, healthcare spending has increased by many, many, many billions. They've gone up by many billions. There's no cuts in health care. The only thing we have to try to do with each other is to prevent the costs of care from rising more structurally than the growth of the economy. We all have to do that. Because if that's structural, then you end up with a problem. Then you'll either have to raise taxes and/or make sure you cut benefits on police, on defense. No one wants that either. That is a joint task. Mr Wilders also has this task. We have great care in the Netherlands. It is organised as efficiently as possible and of very high quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u145	We have actually seen a pattern since the summer that the cabinet always leaves or responds too lightly to increasing contagions. That was not the purpose of the cabinet, because the aim was to protect the vulnerable, to keep the ordinary care and to keep sight of the virus. But that gamble didn't work out right. You can see that in October, when it was very consciously chosen to do just enough while it was warned that one setback would already go wrong. And you saw it recently, when the Black Friday cabinet let it happen. My question to the Prime Minister is: if he sees where we stand now, with what blunt measures the virus should be stopped now, what lessons will he learn from it? In other words, what would he do differently next time we have completed this period and reduced the number of infections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u146	I do not agree with Mr Asscher. I have said before: there was one moment, that was in September when we were in a regional approach, and that is what I have often repeated here in the Chamber when we should have stepped up our intervention at that regional level. That was about half of September. After that we have always taken the measures which all the experts also said: you have to take them. You can see that the whole of Europe is facing rising figures faster than we expected on the basis of all the calculations, on the basis of all the expert advice. This happens in Belgium, in France, in Italy, in Spain, in Denmark, in the United Kingdom, and last weekend you will see the measures in Germany. That's also the trouble with this corona virus. So Mr Asscher was right, I have said that more often here, in mid-September, when we had those regional packages, we should use them more heavily. We are also going to weigh up the road map on that. All the measures we have taken since then, both on 13 October and 26 October and now on 14 December, have been taken on the basis of all the expert advice based on the very latest findings. I also said it here last week: we are on a T-split; we think, on the basis of the very latest information we have, that this could just happen. And a few days later, based on the latest figures that were there, we were confronted with the fact that the image was getting worse. It's possible with this virus. That's inevitable. And then you have to act as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u147	I didn't ask if the Prime Minister had acted on the basis of advice at the time. We must note that it did not work. We have to note that Germany is now taking action, but it is at the level of infection we were at in October. This puts us at much greater risk. There have just been reports of what is happening in intensive care. Germany is not at that level, and we are at that level. I do not doubt the good intentions, but the question remains: what lessons does the Prime Minister draw from the fact that we have not succeeded, that we are worse? What lessons does he draw from the fact that as far as the care capacity is concerned, it is not enough to bet on just enough each time to keep this virus under control? There's too little risk margin in it. What lessons does he take from that? And what other things is he gonna do? He noted that the opinions that had been given and the way in which the cabinet dealt with them did not help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u148	I would like to remind Mr Asscher that it is dangerous to make the comparison with other countries. Germany has over 4,000 people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u149	The Prime Minister just did that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u150	I was just answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u151	I didn't bring up those other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u152	Germany currently has over 4,000 people lying in intensive care. That's the ninefold of the Netherlands. There are all kinds of differences. Think for example of when you come to intensive care in one country and when you come to intensive care in the other country. You're gonna have to analyze all those numbers. But you can see throughout Europe in Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark, everywhere that the figures have risen in recent weeks. The cabinet has always said, on the basis of the latest insights from all the experts, that these are the measures we need to take. The cabinet has shared this with the Chamber and with the Netherlands each time. We had a debate here last Tuesday after the press conference. I said, "We're on a T-junction. Based on the figures we now have, the reproduction number of 1 and all other numbers, we think that we can just get through Christmas with the existing package." That was the announcement last week. When we received the messages from the Outbreak Management Team on Friday based on the latest calculations that the R was now much higher and that it was necessary to make difficult decisions the following days, we did so. We never hesitated not in March, not in October at the partial lockdown and also not last Sunday and Monday in the cabinet to take the difficult measures. We have to do it. But it's impossible to always be right on time with this virus. Sometimes you'll be too early and sometimes too late. That is the nature of this pandemic, which we must fight together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u153	I ask the Prime Minister what lessons he learns from the fact that he has not succeeded in preventing this blunt lockdown. He says, no, there are no lessons to learn. He refers to Germany and a number of other countries. Then he says to me: you should not compare with other countries. I can't do that. I note that the Netherlands is now entering a blunt lockdown, that jobs are being lost, that people are getting sick and that there is great misery. I know this Prime Minister didn't want that, but it didn't work out. My simple question is: what lessons does he draw from it? Look at the OMT's advice. The OMT warns: if you want to test travelers from mid-January, this may become difficult, because those same people have to help with vaccination. Then I expect this Prime Minister to say, "My lesson is to be on top of it. My lesson is, don't let the numbers go up again. My lesson is: faster and firmer intervention, because then you keep the number of infections lower." It is the last time I ask him this question: what lessons does he draw from the fact that we have come to this point and what will he do from 19 January to prevent it from happening again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u154	Every time you have to establish that you were too early, too late or on time and have done too much or too little, you have to learn lessons from it. It always is. So we must always ask ourselves, as is happening in many countries today, how the figures may eventually deteriorate more than we had assumed a few days before. That is an extremely relevant question. That cannot be said at the moment, by the way. There is currently no hard analysis as to why these figures have deteriorated so much in recent days. But it's a relevant question. What Mr Asscher said in his speech, at least, is the following. He knows I'm always willing to admit mistakes. I admitted the error of September and the errors in communication in August and September, so he will always be at the right place with me if I think he is right to criticise and he is right to see that mistakes have been made, because then I will always admit them. I sincerely do not believe that we are intervening too early or too late. On the basis of all the advice, this was what we could know and do. He has a right point when he says: retrospectively you always have to ask yourself what you and the experts might have seen before, so that you can learn from it next time. There's no way to give that answer right now. That is the permanent process of what was called the "lessons learned" in the summer. We are always working with all the experts to see if there are lessons to be learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u155	I am glad that the Prime Minister understood my question when I asked it in the third instance. Yeah, we need to establish that it didn't work out. So it's an obligation to learn from that and see why it didn't work out. 'Cause you want to keep it from happening again. That's what my question was about. If the Prime Minister says he can't say that yet, but he is prepared to do so, because you have to learn and protect people, my point would be: use the period of the next few weeks to also formulate what things we're going to do differently. This is about the confidence that, when we can hopefully relax again, we will not be able to find ourselves in this situation again. The Prime Minister says he's willing to do that. I'd like to hold him to that. But then I expect him to formulate and ask in a week or three. For he has been warned, not once but several times, by experts: it is not going well; you do not respond in time; the number of infections is increasing. If he says he's always willing to do it here, I expect him to do it. And otherwise I see him shaking no...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u156	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u157	Otherwise, the cabinet threatens to be hard learners, and we cannot afford that at all. I don't give a damn what you're prepared to do, but we can't afford the cabinet not to learn from the situation we've ended up in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u158	Always willing to admit mistakes, always willing to learn lessons. But what is not right... I do not think that is right to go to the Netherlands either. The Netherlands is also looking at Mr Asscher and at me, because it is not a question of party politics on these points, but of where we all stand. Mr Asscher must then keep me sharp in this division of roles. You're right. At least that would be my opinion; he is himself about it. But if the impression is given that this cabinet blindly missed all signals and at times when others shouted "you must now intervene" it has not done so: that is simply not true. We have always acted on the basis of those we have all appointed here as the experts on whose collective judgment we are going, the best we have in the Netherlands. We see in all countries that these experts are trying to advise as conscientiously as possible and do not always have it exactly right afterwards. You can't do that with a pandemic like that. That's just a fact. Of course, you always ask experts: let's learn lessons from that. But it is not the case that I am now going to promise Mr Asscher that we are going to waste a great deal of time in the coming weeks to formulate and send to him exactly all these lessons. That is a permanent process that the virologists and epidemiologists do in the OMT. But what he claims, that we have missed moments and all have missed advice, is simply not true. We did all the time what the experts told us to do. After we had shaken them, held them upside down and then asked them again, we always took the measure the experts said you should take now. And rightly so. Because from day one, I have maintained that together we can fight this crisis only if we do so on the compass of the experts, after which an administrative and political judgment always fits, but where you always stay as close as possible to the scientific advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u159	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u160	I fully agree that this is an opportunity for a genuine discussion about what can and should be done better. I believe that I will do the same, just as the Prime Minister does. But you can't hold on to the fact that there's no warning. The choice of the cabinet to control care capacity, to target care capacity in the strategy, is risky. I understand where it comes from, but it's risky. I warned against it, but outside experts warned against it. We have seen that, at least if you have to believe the reconstructions, there was a discussion in the cabinet in October about whether there should be no more action to prevent the figures from rising. So it's just not true that there were no indications that this was risky. I'm sorry, I regret that we're standing here now. I'll share that with the Prime Minister. Because we are in a situation where the lockdown is so blunt and the damage is so great; you should never want that. So my question was not about making a paper and sending it to me. That's not the question. The question is what lessons do we learn from this? How do you prevent the number of infections from re-emerging after this? What strategy do you choose? Do you dare choose dams? Do you dare choose to kick it out? Surely the Prime Minister should take the example I gave, warning the OMT that there will be another capacity problem by 15 January? Because then he knows that if it is not in order 15 January, we may lose sight of the virus again, just as it happened in the summer. And yes, the Prime Minister has based himself on experts, but there have also been serious warnings that the cabinet is heading in a risky direction here. My question is not to make a paper, but learn from it and make it clear how to prevent the number of infections from getting back on track. That's really in our best interest. If the Prime Minister thinks he's willing to always learn, he can just do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u161	This surprises me, because this is just as important. Mr Asscher is now saying: it is strange that the cabinet has sent on care capacity. That's what all the countries in the Western world do. All countries in the Western world have two main indicators. Can the care take it, in such a way that non-coronacare does not suffer from it? Secondly, what about the position of people with weak health and the elderly? That's what all European countries do. That's what most Asian countries do. Even Donald Trump's America does that, at least on paper. That is the strategy that is being followed everywhere. That is not vulnerable; that is a logical strategy. He's absolutely right. That's our strategy too. That you want to go back to a level where you can contain new outbreaks when they're there and control them. He's absolutely right about that. That's why you want to go back to that level of vigilance. That's the level of those 35 infections per 100,000 a week, the 7 a day, the 1,200 a day. Of course you want to go back there, so you can contain it as well as possible and stomp it out. That's what we've always said. That's part of the strategy. It is now too big to do so on that scale. That is why we must now take additional measures, first a partial lockdown and now this one. That's exactly how it is. Yes, there was discussion in the Cabinet in October, but that did not result in us not doing, on balance, whatever the experts advised us to do. After weighing, after administrative questions, after shaking again. We also did that on 13 October with a partial lockdown and at the beginning of November when we said: we want to speed up that brake road with a number of additional measures. That there was a lot of discussion about that in the cabinet, granted, that's right. I'm not ashamed of that. I don't think that's crazy in a crisis like this. I don't think it's a disaster that some of it comes out. It's part of the job. But it has not led to the failure to take the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u162	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u163	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to... That is the advantage of Mr Asscher; I have been able to answer a lot of questions. Then we get to the economy. Let me start with that, Mr. Chairman. Then I will go on to a number of sectors where special matters are involved. First, the support packages. I would like to remind you that a great deal has happened and that, with the support of the Chamber, we have invested a great deal of money in it as a cabinet. That was also necessary to lead the country through this crisis and, above all, our beautiful companies and the many people who work in them. This also led to a number of enlargements last week. I am not going to list them all, but I would like to mention one because it is now extra relevant. As employers, I would like to mention this here, if they do not use the NOW 2 scheme, then they can choose to start the period of turnover comparison, i.e. to determine the turnover loss, on 1 October, on 1 November or on 1 December. This means that if they choose to do so by 1 December, the turnover of December 2020 and January and February 2021 are compared with the turnover of 2019 divided by four. In short, this ensures that the entire period of the closure falls within the turnover comparison. That was already in the arrangement, a little hidden. It turned out to be so designed that unfortunately it already took this kind of misery into account. I would like to add something that is really new, also on the basis of what many of you have said about in the Chamber. In addition to the existing arrangements, we want to make a considerable additional effort in the non-food retail trade. They are being disproportionately hit hard, many of you have been appointed as a result of the announced closure on 14 December. They have bought stuff that they can no longer sell, also because this is often fashion and seasonal in many of these types of shops. This therefore leads to a loss of value of their stock which is not reimbursed within the current aid measures. To meet these entrepreneurs, the cabinet wants to set up a so-called stock payment for non-food retail trade. It's actually similar to what we did to the catering industry in October. Those entrepreneurs were then entitled, on top of the TVL, to a one-off subsidy for stock and adjustment costs. It is now also going to introduce the cabinet for the non-food retail trade. That's new. The Cabinet will inform you about this as soon as possible. We are trying to do so this week with a letter from the Ministers for Social Affairs, Finance and Economic Affairs. They are the most involved, because there are, of course, a number of technical issues behind them. Actually, we want to graft him as much as possible on what we did earlier in the catering industry and now for the non-food sector, which unfortunately has to close. It also breathes with it, just like it did with the catering industry, because that is a percentage of the turnover loss. That's new and additional to what we brought out yesterday. There were a few specific questions about travel expenses, work costs and the usual wage. My own party, the VVD, but also other parties have drawn attention to these three points in their contribution. In principle, these arrangements expire because they all had reason to stop once, but we are going to look very closely at how the economy is developing in the coming period. You're assuming there'll be another recovery after this lockdown. That's also foreseen. But if things are different in the first quarter of next year, we will come back to the Chamber with the question of what to do with travel expenses, working costs and the usual wage approach. Apart from that, I'd like to give a letter about the events. Mr Dijkhoff referred to this. The event sector has been with me and other members of the cabinet. It has made a proposal similar to the German proposal. Suppose in February you announce a big event with the hope that it will be possible again in June and that will not happen in June, how do you deal with it? They themselves called it a kind of guarantee fund. I'm not saying we're gonna do that. I'm not saying we're not gonna do it. Otherwise, I wouldn't be telling you this here. We're studying that. A letter will be sent as soon as possible about the guarantee fund, which is operating in Germany. As far as the start-ups are concerned, I should like to say, as a result of the Dijkhoff motion, that the Minister for Economic Affairs said at the time that this motion was an effort. It's complicated because it takes time to develop a scheme. It must also be notified in Brussels. So that really takes a while, but that's being worked on with man and power right now. Then there was also the question of what we do with the municipalities to support the retail trade, including the small retail trade. Mr Heerma referred to this. In fact, there were already bigger changes in the retail sector for corona, which is now invigorating, including online sales. At the same time, it is good to see in all the misery we have now, that the artisan grocery stores have proven to be sturdy and stable in recent years. I have also visited a number of these cases myself. Not necessarily to buy anything, but from my job. We are happy to see that people know how to find and appreciate the local shopkeepers. Like the supermarkets, they have increased their turnover this year. In the Retail Agenda, governments, municipalities, provinces and the Empire work together with the branches, the knowledge institutions and the real estate sector to keep the sector, but above all the shopping areas as such, economically healthy and vital. This also depends on the transformation of inner cities where this is necessary. 100 million has been set aside to work with municipalities and all parties on the necessary transformation. While I have the opportunity, I would also like to say to the Netherlands once again that we have beautiful supermarkets in the Netherlands. Yeah, we do. Beautiful supermarket chains. We're all proud of that. But what fantastic food shops we have, which are working incredibly hard to make the best offer and compete with the big supermarket chains! Without doing anything about the importance of the big supermarket chains, I say: if you have a cheese specialty shop nearby, a butcher shop, a wine shop, a liquor store, you name it, where there is not the standard offer, but where special things happen we all know those shops; you can see them in all the neighborhoods, from the Moroccan butcher here in the Schilderswijk to the wine specialty shop here at the Van Hoytemaplein! There you can buy Moroccan pancakes up to and including Italian wines. So not just go to those big supermarkets. Then there was the question: could you still organise a form of solidarity between companies? [[Sentence could not be parsed: We hadden vroeger een crisisheffing.]] That is a sympathetic thought, I say to Mr Segers, but we already have it. Because our tax system, which would be my position, works in such a way that taxes breathe with the economy, that companies that make profits pay corporate tax on profits and that companies that don't make profits don't pay corporate tax. So that is already a form of solidarity levy. Mr President, that is what I mean... No, one more question, about the cleaners. Mr Azarkan asked that question, but he disappeared, I see. If cleaners work as zzp'er, they can qualify for the Tozo if they are at risk of falling below the social minimum. And if they work on a flex contract and get into trouble with their necessary burdens, they can contact the municipality for customization through the so-called Temporary Support Necessary Costs, the TONK. There's 130 million for the next six months to help people in tight situations. That is not new, as is well known, but I would like to name it here in response to Mr Azarkan's question. That, Mr President, is what I am saying in response to all the questions about the economy. And for the process: after that, I have questions about education and the closure of shops and a few remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u164	Yes. I have Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u165	The Prime Minister's appeal to buy from a local self-employed entrepreneur is a matter for my heart, but my question is what the Prime Minister will do. And this is mainly about something that is very hard for SMEs: their shop closes and they immediately see advertisements from those soulless online all-sellers after the Prime Minister's speech. So what can we do to make sure that people if they buy something now will do that at those independent shops? They might also be able to deliver at home. Shouldn't there be a levy on the products of those very large companies that really only do everything online, in order to protect the self-employed from unfair competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u166	I was near Nijmegen a while ago, at a company that makes those baby towels. That is a company with, I believe, two people in service, working worldwide thanks to the Internet and all the opportunities offered by social media. I also know Akkerman here in the Passage, one of the oldest fountain shops in the Netherlands. They do some business in the shop, but they really have a beautiful website, where you can buy your beautiful, very special pens and filler pens worldwide. I get to advertise it, because that's such a small company that the NIS will forgive me if they broadcast it. And I don't have any stock in it! These are examples of very small companies doing great business worldwide via the web. Any single entrepreneur can now be multinational. Of course, it is true that Mrs Ouwehand has a point about the fact that there are also very large ones. I do not think it would be wise to decide now to impose all kinds of additional charges on the big ones here in the Netherlands, regardless of Europe. I really don't believe in that. What we need to do is to further stimulate innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, which is already massive. We must ensure, as I just outlined in reply to Mr Heerma's question, through the Retail Agenda, that all public authorities work together with the sector. And of course, we also need to talk about it with warmth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u167	I'm not saying it's easy, but you can do something with the combination of these two criteria. Are they companies that really only do everything online, which is at the expense of shops that have to close now, and are they really such big guys that it isn't that banner initiativer who sells everything online? Because it's just really bad. I like record stores. I see my record store posting on social media today: people, please order, then we'll bring it home. And on television, those soulless commercials are on display. I don't mention any other names, and those companies sell everything online. That's just unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u168	Yes. And a lot of junk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u169	And a lot of junk. So that's what I'm looking for. Is there anything we can do? Because I think we agree that we just want to give these independent entrepreneurs a little protection against the unfair competition of those guys who already do everything online.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u170	I would love to, but I think you have to acknowledge that companies that have turnover losses can now make use of all the arrangements. Those arrangements are breathtaking, and I have just added the communication on how we deal with these latest developments. But I don't think we should go so far as to impose additional charges on sales on the Internet. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr Segers, then Mr Van der Staaij, then Mrs Van Brenn and then Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u172	I hear the Prime Minister's response to the crisis charges. It was indeed a pretty wild thought, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u173	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u174	...the idea is that it's sanding and it's painful to see a number of companies become incredibly rich and a number of other companies are now falling over due to government measures. I have a bit of the same feeling as my colleague Ouwehand. Indeed, a bit of those soulless companies can go completely online and companies with quality, middlemen, are having a very difficult time. Could the cabinet look again at possibilities for ordering and picking up at such shops? If there is something more possible, if they can breathe a little more with it, then that last leftover is also... Because the support is not sufficient. It only helps to a certain extent. Could the cabinet take another step so that they can keep their heads above water during this period, when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u175	I fear no more than we said yesterday. Shops can of course deliver to home. You don't want everyone going to the store right now to pick it up there, because then you still have that whole crowd on the shopping street. I'm afraid I can't. But they can deliver at home. You can also make direct calls or make orders via the internet and have them delivered at home. I think we're really doing a lot about that. The fact that we are all talking about this with warmth is also very important. Don't underestimate that. Don't underestimate the Netherlands itself either. The Netherlands is smart, isn't it? I do not need to convince Mr Segers of that. I say more to all of us, including myself, that Dutch people are smart. They really do have the quality, the warmth and the craftsmanship that you get at specialty stores. I do not want to put away the Internet companies that work more massively here either, as if that were all a bunch of bullshit. Of course it isn't. There are also people behind it who are trying to do their best. And when they make profits, they, of course, also pay them back in the form of corporation tax on that profit. It is therefore not the case that they do not contribute to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u176	But still, Madam President. We are now seeing the shift of the shopping streets with bookshops that are now forced to close down, especially at bookshops, which I find really painful, because they are very shaky, to the blocks that cannot be dragged, to the vans that are tearing back and forth everywhere. That's where the pain is. Can the cabinet look at this again, because it is a shift that is simply not beautiful and is not fair at this time either. I would ask the Cabinet to look again at the quality issues that are currently very difficult. How can we somehow offer space to within the responsible rules, within the rules one step further...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u177	We can't change the rules... Sorry, excuse me. Let me say, then, that I am asking Mrs Keijzer, the Secretary of State, to look at this type of question in the light of the Retail Agenda that is under way. Can you do more there? But it has to be within the existing covid rules. I don't want to raise expectations either. I'm not gonna saddle her with an expectation she can't live up to. I'm gonna say right away, that's gonna be hard. But she may be able to bring all the parties together again and see what is possible. She can also use the creativity to the maximum, because that is what you really see in this sector. Take a look at Paagman in The Hague. Those types of bookshops are available throughout the Netherlands, in Hoogeveen and Zwolle, you name it. They're everywhere and we know them all in the cities where we live. They are all able to do a lot with great creativity via the Internet. That's not just for the big ones. It is being listened to by officials, so let me say that we are asking her to get all the parties together in the context of the Retail Agenda once again to see if we can do more there to transfer knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u178	Same thing. I would have called attention to this in my term. I assume that we are also discussing the regulation we have been sent in this way. Article 4a, 1 lists what is and is not permitted. It says: shops in DIY articles and libraries where only the collection of ordered or reserved items is involved; libraries are also mentioned there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u179	For picking up, picking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u180	Yeah, for picking up and picking up. In the case of DIY articles, there is indeed a choice. I get that, because you have to pick something. I agree with Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Segers that the Prime Minister has said: we are going to look at it. I can imagine that more questions will arise in the coming days, because these measures are also new. In my term I also mentioned the example that you can get a baby article in that store, but not in a separate specialty shop. That kind of thing raises all kinds of questions. Maybe they can be inventoried together for a while. Perhaps then there will be an interim addition or amendment at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u181	I just don't want to make that hope too big. No, of course, there was a discussion today about what percentage a store belongs to "food" or "non-food" and you name it. That kind of fine grinding will still take place, but I do not want to give the impression that this leads to very large adjustments. I really want to avoid making it possible for us to take everything on a large scale. I'd really be against that. Anyway, I understand literally that Mr van der Staaij is asking to act on these issues as bottlenecks that were not foreseen. Yes. Only, we'll keep trying to do that in a way that doesn't lead to more relocations. The whole aim was precisely to reduce the number of contacts, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u182	Agreed. I understand the idea that we want to limit the number of contacts, but at the same time there are also those other sides that are mentioned, such as the position of entrepreneurs and unintended effects, weird demarcations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u183	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u184	If such points are not necessarily postponed until the end of that period...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u185	No, no, no, that was today, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u186	...can be checked to see if any additions will be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u187	We had a discussion today about the HEMA and when a store is 30% or 70%. We were immediately on top of that today, especially Minister Grapperhaus of Justice. That will happen a few more times in the next few days, I think. At least that's not unthinkable, let me put it this way. That you can't predict everything exactly, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u188	I asked two questions that haven't been answered. One was that we are now really expecting a greater influx in the use of the aid package. How soon can all this be made operational? How long is the waiting time? We think a lot more people are gonna take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u189	You mean the NOW scheme? I will come back to that in second term. I did not hear that in the first term, so I would ask you to listen to Mrs Van Brenk and give her my answer in the second period. That's the lead time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u190	I had also asked for perhaps a little more depth on what is essential. The Prime Minister is advertising. I name my favourite chocolate shop: Kris Kringle, in the Garden in Utrecht. I invite you to take a look. Delicious, especially for Christmas. The point is: what is essential? Well, if you're gonna take that package away from the Primera, because that's your support point, can't you have some Christmas card?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u191	No, I'm really sorry. We can't do that, because that's going to compete unfairly with Bruna, who may not have a post office function. So I'm afraid I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u192	I would like to continue on the subject of Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. The Prime Minister has made a warm plea for the small middleman here, and that is very good. I believe, however, that there is not enough follow-up to the answer to that question. I understand that you can't pick up anywhere, because then those shopping streets are full again, but there was such a warm plea for that little middleman. I do not want to take over the word "soulless," but those big Internet companies, especially those from across the ocean, are at least rootless in Dutch society. Those are not the companies that, like those middlemen, keep the local sports associations and volunteering going. This was already going on for corona. We need to tackle this crisis in order not to drop it, but to support it. Then I find the commitment towards Mr Van der Staaij really too lean. If the Prime Minister chooses these middlemen so clearly, then the Retail Agenda should actually be used to address these municipalities to support the local middle class and to attract the supermarkets. Then I would like to have a concrete commitment when we hear back on this, because the crucial period for these companies that the Prime Minister is going to advertise here is not five weeks away, but it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u193	Yeah, that's what I was gonna say when I said we're gonna use the Retail Agenda for that conversation. I think Mr Heerma and I agree. As far as timing is concerned, I really want to hear from Mrs Keijzer about how quickly that can be done. I will come back to that in second term, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u195	Then I'll have a little official check-up when she can sit with them. It's supposed to be all tomorrow, because you have to do it before Christmas. That was the point of economics. Then I'll get into education. A lot has been said about that, but not much has been asked of me. Maybe a few things about that. The question was whether you could open primary education sooner than after those five weeks. I'm really reluctant about that. I also explained why we have those five weeks. That's because you want to see what the effect of New Year's Eve is. Before you see that New Year's effect, you're already in January. Some have asked for primary education to be opened a week earlier. Then you have to have a clear view of the effect of New Year's Eve. You probably don't have that yet. We cannot do this as a matter of urgency, also because of the procedures that you cannot use in accordance with the law, only under very urgent circumstances to reduce danger. That's what's going on right now. That's an article in the temporary law we're using right now. So we can't just do that. So we have to do that through a front and so on. That means we're really excited about that. I am therefore extremely reluctant to make a commitment about this to Jetten, Klaver and others. Mr. Chairman. That was actually about education. There have been a lot of discussions about it, but I do not think there have been any questions to me about education. I shall come back to delays and such, but no further questions have been asked about the general closure. Maybe I can do the other questions about education right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u196	Yeah, I was just about to suggest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u197	Mr Heerma and Mr Jetten rightly asked about the risk of educational disadvantages. There's a lot of research going on that you're trying to map learning disadvantages. By the way, that image is not yet complete. All efforts in education are aimed at catching up and preventing further delays. Almost 300 million has been invested for the catching-up and support programmes that allow schools to provide additional support. In the event of drop-out, the educational disadvantage among pupils is, of course, re-emerging. This means that we need to make a commitment to this. For this reason, 210 million extra has already been made available for schools of p.o. up to and including MBO, so they can attract staff and so on. Distance learning raises the question of the equipment needed for this. Mr Segers and others asked. This is primarily a responsibility of the school authorities. Once again, it will require a lot of schools to organise distance education. With subsidies from OCW, the cooperative SIVON has provided more than 15,000 devices to schools. A further 3 million has been made available by the Cabinet for this purpose. School boards can apply to SIVON for this. The procurement procedure shall be completed as soon as possible thereafter. Then there was a question about special education and primary schools. The SGP actually asked the same question as D66 and other parties: couldn't it be sooner? That is what my previous answer is for. Then Mr Asscher said: why the churches and the schools? Let me get this straight. Ferd Grapperhaus, who is particularly charged with this, has almost permanent conversations with the church societies. The vast majority of church societies comply with the rules that apply elsewhere, but excesses are not excluded. Churches have a special constitutional position in the Netherlands, as we all know. Most churches act extremely responsibly and do most of their work remotely. Then there's the question about emergency care. Now that primary schools and childcare are closed by the morning, I say to Mr Heerma, another exception has been made for vulnerable children, and also for children of parents with crucial professions, in fact quite similar to what we did in March and April. I think you can say now that that will still be very hard work for everyone; no misunderstanding about this: because of the experiences of this spring, childcare organisations, host parents and schools are now better prepared for it because they have already had that experience once. But it's still gonna be awful hard work running things in the right direction. In most cases, the children concerned are better represented by schools, childcare organisations and municipalities. I think that is very important when it comes to the children who come from vulnerable groups or who have parents with crucial professions. Then there was also a question about home working parents and the calamities fund. That question will be answered by Mrs Van Ark shortly. Mr. Chairman. Those were all the questions I wrote down about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u198	Mr Klaver stood before you mentioned that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u199	I have asked for support for this rather rigorous decision. I also asked if the OMT could be asked for further support. I went all the way back to April to review all the OMT's advice. Can the Prime Minister tell me when the OMT has advised me to close the primary schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u200	What they said in the last OMT opinion is that if a broad package is chosen, and that is what the OMT would prefer, as it said the day before yesterday, then physical school closure could be part of it. They are opposed to the fact that schools close if not other measures are taken, but as part of a larger package they say that they can very well imagine that. That does indeed cover all sectors of education. I would point out that in primary education alone, for example, you talk about 1.5 million children. That means very, very, very many movements around the schools, parents delivering and retrieving children, etc. et cetera et cetera. So that's a lot of moves. Also, of course, teachers who run into each other. So if you say that we are now massively limiting the number of contacts in the Netherlands, it is unfortunately impossible to exclude primary education from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u201	I really don't understand this. We're willing to do anything. I hope that this has become clear in recent months. I'm asking for the justification. Where does the OMT provide the numerical justification that this is necessary? Everything I read from the government's main advisors is about secondary education, everything! And if anything is said about primary education, it is actually said that the contribution to the number of infections is very, very, very limited. And this afternoon. The chairman of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics, member of the OMT, says: turn back this decision, I am overwhelmed by the closure of primary education, do not do this. So once again, I would like to see a backup of the OMT because that is what we are going on about why it is necessary to close down primary education. Because all the opinions so far are on secondary education and not on primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u202	That is a subject that I addressed yesterday in my TV speech and that is that unfortunately we no longer have the luxury, given the huge number of infectious diseases in the Netherlands, the high number of infections and the rapid rising pressure in the care, to ask us by measure what the precise effect of that one measure is. It is now the sum total of all these measures that should ensure that we reduce the number of contact moments and movements in the Netherlands. We simply need to have less contact with people, especially outside our own household, and within our own household we must immediately distance ourselves if there is only a beginning of a cold, let alone if you have any further complaints. This also means that education is not closed because there are a lot of infections there now. It's also one of the last sectors you want to close down. As far as I am concerned, if there is room for action again, it is also the first sector you want to reopen, and in that sector, primary education is the first sector you want to open again. There's no discussion about that. If we agree, I agree, but it is a sector in which 2.5 million children, primary schools and secondary schools go to school every day, Monday through Friday. About 1.5 million children in primary education and 1 million children in secondary education. And all the teaching staff. Those are all travel movements. That is why you cannot say: that is the contribution of a measure. Unfortunately, it does not work that way now because of the large numbers and scale of the problem. The OMT also says in the opinion: but it must be part of a wider package; then physical school closure could also be part of it. Also against the background of the advice and the huge problem we now have in the Netherlands, the cabinet thinks that you can't take the risk and let that large number of trips continue every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u203	The OMT has always talked about high school when it comes to closure. So my question to the cabinet is to check with the OMT. Did they mean secondary education and primary education? As far as all these movements are concerned, I get a "déjà vu" feeling. When it came to libraries, we were standing here and I said to the Prime Minister, "Travel movements? Like you're going to the library in Barneveld." Primary schools have an excellent local function. Secondary schools have a regional function. There you see much more and larger travel movements. I'm the father of three children. If I'm not working, my life is made up of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u204	I see you driving around town a lot with that bowl. That's where the kids are. Then you'll get to that school and you'll see other parents, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u205	So my life, when I'm not working, is made up of those kids and their boyfriends. I see how schools are not just organizing this school, because I've been looking at a lot of schools lately. It's tossing your kid out of that bowl and out. The most important thing is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u206	Be nice, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u207	We can joke about it... I'm very serious about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u208	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u209	I'm not worried about my kids. I think that's true of a lot of people's children here. But I have three tests here. I got one from Oxford. I have an investigation from the Cito. I have an investigation here from Amsterdam. In it they show what the consequences of the lockdown have been, especially for children who are lagging behind. And to decide to close those primary schools very easily is not the right choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u210	What do you mean, "easy"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u211	Easy? I'll tell you why. At Schiphol Airport there is no strong intervention...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u212	I'll be right there at Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u213	... in slaughterhouses there is no strong intervention, in churches there are fewer interventions than this spring and primary schools still have to close down. This is not based on scientific advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u214	But this is really too easy. We are currently in a very difficult, even dangerous phase of this pandemic crisis. I know that Mr Klaver is aware of that, so we do not need to convince each other; we both feel that way. There is a risk that the number of infections is too high and there is a risk that this will lead to the postponement of other medical interventions in our hospitals and to consequences for care of the elderly and so on. We all share that. And the only way I'm gonna say it again, as I did yesterday in my TV speech to get this problem under control, is that we're massively reducing the number of movements and contact moments. That includes this large number of movements. One and a half million children between 4 and 12, and even younger children who go to childcare, who go from home to school to childcare and back, and parents and teachers: that is too much right now. That's why we're saying this. We have two weeks of Christmas vacation, so the schools would be closed anyway. This week's a few days. If they can do distance learning, that's fantastic. If that doesn't work, we'll understand. But in January, it's two weeks longer at a distance. And we sincerely hope that it is possible to take the 19th... As far as we are concerned, it is also a priority if nothing else is possible. I can't guarantee it's the 19th. But if anything can happen, the schools naturally go first and the primary schools all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u215	That's what you said. Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u216	There was no intervention when it was about Black Friday. There was no intervention when it went completely wrong in the slaughterhouses. There's no interference when it comes to Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u217	I'll be at Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u218	About the kids we're talking about right now, these elementary school students, you can say, well, it's only two weeks. But for a lot of kids, that's too long. In view of what we need to do for future generations, I think it is of the utmost importance that we do not deprive these children of two weeks of school. The backwardness of children is great. Then you can say: we are going to try carefully to see who the children with the most disadvantages are. But it's almost impossible to do that. But again, the most important thing for me is this. If not the Prime Minister, but the OMT, the scientists, were to advise that it would be necessary for primary schools to be closed down because otherwise things would go completely wrong, then I fully support it. Then I will explain to the Prime Minister in the Netherlands why it is necessary to close primary schools. But the OMT doesn't recommend it, and the Prime Minister is not prepared to ask the OMT to pronounce it again. If these scientists were to say this outright, I'd be totally behind it. They don't, and with that, this decision is built on quicksand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u219	No, it's not, because the Outbreak Management Team doesn't have the luxury of mapping out what exactly the individual contribution of each measure is, because of the huge problem we are facing right now and what we are looking at with each other. This also applies to the discussion I had with Mr Wilders about the catering industry. The catering industry also does everything it can to do it nicely. Our primary schools are fantastic. But it's added up a lot of moves. This is exactly the problem I outlined in my TV speech yesterday. My problem is not that a limited number of people in the Netherlands do not follow the rules. Yeah, of course that's my problem, too. But the problem is that the vast majority of the people who do comply with the rules at the moment, while keeping to the rules as best they can, make a lot of movements, which are also allowed and not advised not to make them, to the theatre, albeit in small numbers, to the Efteling or to school, or to all important things, such as the shop. What we need to do now is really the point where we stand. Then the Outbreak Management Team says: those schools are very important, but if you would only do so, so if they were closed outside other measures to be the only one, then we are against it, because for that the importance of education is too great. They say you can do a lot of other things to reduce the spread among adults. But if a wide package is introduced, physical school closure may be appropriate. And I assure you, we've weighed that up. It hasn't been an easy decision. That's not easy. We really talked about that intensively. Unfortunately, we can't afford not to do this school lockdown right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u220	Really concluding on this point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u221	Mr President, I really want to conclude. I really read this advice from the OMT differently, and I'm not alone. Also a member of the OMT, the president of the association of pediatricians, says to be surprised by the decision of the cabinet to close the primary schools. All kinds of sectors are mentioned here, whether it is about amusement parks, shops or retail. It's said to close, stop it. Schools are called much more cumbersome; they do not go into that directly. Once again, since April, I have not seen in any of the opinions that primary education would be a problem. There is one very big difference from all the other sectors you mention. I think it is terrible for the retail trade; I think it is terrible what it does to the entrepreneurs. But this is about children, sometimes in very vulnerable positions. I think we should do everything we can to keep primary schools open. I'm not convinced of the basis. And the worst part is... If the Prime Minister wants to convince me, I'll be happy to explain it with him. He has to ask the OMT for a firmer basis. As soon as they say they have to do so, I am going to support it 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u222	But they can't give them now either. It's simply a sum sum. That's exactly what I tried to say in my story yesterday. One sector says: but what am I actually contributing? The other sector says: I've organized it so well. And it always is. I never criticize that. I have no criticism of shops, schools, restaurants and cafés in the Netherlands. Everyone tries to be conscientious, but it's in the sum total. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u223	First of all, a big compliment to all the teachers who changed everything yesterday to have a beautiful end-of-year celebration with their students today. Students went to school sadly because they know that school isn't in the next few weeks. It's the teachers who haven't had lunch for months to avoid contact moments. It is the teachers who do not allow parents on the school square; children must be dropped off outside the school square in order to avoid contact between teachers and parents. It is the teachers who know exactly which children grow up in a vulnerable position in a classroom, because the parents do not have or do not have time to help them in home education. It is the teachers who know that you can give group 3 or 4 maybe 40 minutes of fun online education, but that after that all attention is away from the children. These people are worried about what the school lockdown means until January 18th. The Prime Minister has just said a few times: we cannot judge sooner than mid-January. I think that's really unwise. We should not get into the situation that, after five weeks of lockdown, we will decide to throw the whole country open at once, and then we will see again weeks later that that was a little too much of the good. I have argued in favour, and others in the Chamber have done so, to do the reopening step by step after this lockdown. Fortunately, I hear the Prime Minister say that the government's priority is also in education, and in primary education. I would therefore like to ask him again, as Mr Asscher asked in the first term: look at what the lockdown is doing in the next few weeks, and if the figures go in the right direction, then judge whether the schools can open a week earlier, i.e. 11 January instead of 18 January. Because for those kids, every day counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u224	I don't want to say no to that, but I don't want to raise hope either. I'll warn you about this. Old and new is with old and new, so on December 31st and January 1st. Yeah, we agree on that. I can even see Mr Asscher nodding. Before you know the effect of old and new on the infections, you're really back in January. In order to be able to open primary schools on 11 January, i.e. primary education, the OMT must come forward with a positive opinion before the first week of January and therefore a decision must be taken before 3 January. Then you have no idea what old and new has done. That must then be incorporated into a ministerial arrangement, which is after a week. Because it's a scaling down, you can't use the emergency procedure. That's what I'm warning you about. Let's just say, hugo, right? We are looking at the situation at the beginning of January. If then the sun has shined and everything suddenly goes very much better, you can say: we don't know exactly what the effect of old and new is, but let's take the risk, because all the other figures are very good. Then you have a different situation. But if we're not sure how things are going at the beginning of January, we're not gonna promise here that we're gonna do it. We agree on that, don't we? Of course, if everything is going well from the end of December/beginning of January, then you would... I don't want to be the strict family father here, because I want these children to be able to go back to school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u225	I also understand that the Prime Minister does not give firm guarantees here. That's not the situation we're in right now. But in the first days of January we may not be able to say what old and new has done, but then we have the first two, two and a half weeks of this heavy lockdown on it. Hopefully that will have led to an improvement in the figures by the beginning of January. Moreover, we know that these children up to 12 years old are not really a very serious danger and that teachers and school leaders have taken a lot of measures to prevent these contact moments between adults. So understand that the Prime Minister does not make any firm guarantees here, but once again the call: look what is possible, so that primary education is really the first sector to get wind of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u226	Either way, it's the first sector. Education as a whole is the first sector, and within it primary education. Do you think it's gonna work out a week earlier? Pfft, that would be fantastic. So we're gonna take a look at it. But don't get mad when we say it's really too insecure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u227	It is sad that we are now in the situation in which we are, but I agree with the Prime Minister that we now have no choice but to reduce those contacts. The question, as Jetten and I put it earlier, is: look on time, shortly after old and new ones, there we agree on whether it is going so well that these primary schools can be opened up again in the interests of the children. Now I actually hear the Prime Minister say 'that can't be' or 'that is complicated by its own covid legislation'. But that was not the purpose of the legislation. So if a procedural argument is being used against the best interests of those kids now, I think that's crazy. So if the virus, the number of infections, makes it necessary for the schools to stay closed, so be it. Then that is terrible, and then I ask the Cabinet to do more for those children than it already does, in a support package. But if those figures are going in the right direction, I would find a follow-up based on that legislation really insane. Then we'll have to reschedule now. Because then that law will work against the interests he's for. That law is intended to correct the cabinet if freedoms are too quickly restricted or if they set aside fundamental rights. It is not intended to prolong the limitation of children's fundamental right to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u228	Okay. Once, of course. But the law that we then made seems to say that only in very urgent circumstances can direct action be taken to reduce danger. Anyway, we're gonna take another look at it. I'll take that challenge. So you can't use the law to scale down measures. That's the legal advice I'm getting. Mr Asscher is actually saying here: go here in the interests of the country against the law. I hear Mr Asscher now saying that the Chamber is the boss. Yes, the room is the boss, but I can handle the room myself... well, we'll take this challenge, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u229	Then I suggest you move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u230	I hear Mr Asscher say that 'a more flexible posture' is to be adopted here in the interests of primary education. Of course I can't. So that in itself is another one we can look at. I promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u231	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u232	Mr President, two things very briefly. My first point is about travel. I must inform you that today, unfortunately, we have had to decide to make the travel advice for Aruba and Bonaire orange, as for all the other Caribbean islands. Not because of the situation there, but because of the big problems in the Netherlands we cannot currently have people travelling to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Unfortunately. The other parts were already orange for epidemiological reasons or because the islands didn't want us. Curaçao was orange because of the high number of infections. I say to Mrs Agema that Saba and Statia were orange because they didn't want us. But unfortunately, I have to say now that Aruba and Bonaire are set on orange. That is not because the infections are not going well there, but that is because we really want to implement the number of travel restrictions here in this particular phase of the lockdown, so in those five weeks. Secondly, you know by now that for non-EU nationals flying in from non-Schengen countries, a negative PCR test must be provided. We also want to introduce this for travel within Schengen. We're gonna try that soon. That's really gonna take some research. I am not going to mention a month here, but we want to do so as soon as possible. This is currently being worked on by the Ministries of Infrastructure and Water State and Justice and Security. They'll come back to you soon. This should probably be regulated in a law amendment to the Public Health Act. That's what it takes to get it settled permanently. In the end, you have to take care of a law change, but for flying, it's probably possible without a law change. It's being investigated now. Then it could be much faster than we initially thought. So you are talking about air traffic within Schengen, the obligation that now applies from non-Schengen countries to non-EU nationals. Finally, the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State once again talks with the airlines to point out the negative travel advice. I would like to say to the Netherlands once again: in the next few weeks, if you are going to go on skiing or to fly when you have nothing else to look for, like an urgent family visit or whatever, then that is just antisocial. You just don't have to do that right now. For a reason, there is a negative travel advice. What else could you do? That question has been asked. A flight ban is possible and you can never completely rule it out, but that is an incredibly drastic measure. No country in the European Union is doing that at the moment. It also has major undesirable consequences for freight transport, as it is often combined with passenger transport. We have already made agreements with Dutch airlines not to offer package trips to orange areas. We'll see what we can do. There is not much different than my appeal to the Netherlands, in which I appeal to everyone's decency, and the fact that the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State is once again talking to the companies to remind them of the negative travel advice for non-necessary travel. The only escalation you have after that, unless someone comes up with something more creative, is the flight ban. We would then be the only ones in the European Union, with all the consequences for freight transport. There are also mouth caps and you name it, so we should not decide lightly. I'm terribly sorry, but there's not much in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u233	Do you have any questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u234	I'm done with this. Finally, a few other things very quickly. For maintaining with old and new we hope with the ban on the sale and possession of fireworks to reduce the pressure on care by fireworks accidents. Germany and Belgium have also reduced the fireworks. That, of course, contributes greatly. With regard to the group size of up to two, if not residing at the same address, the police will of course also maintain it. The priority is, of course, in excesses. You can't maintain everything. Why outside two? This, too, ultimately has everything to do with reducing the number of potential infections and ensuring that in this very serious situation the number of contacts with them is reduced. I agree with Mr Segers on the commitment to dialogue. We talk to a lot of target groups. I do that myself, but I am sure all the trade ministers will do so much more. So that is the instrument that we are putting in place. That is the normal functioning of our politicians in society, of which we are of course also lock, stock and barrel. By the way, it is important that the municipalities do the same. I know that they do so on a large scale. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u235	Good. I see Mr Heerma, Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u236	Oh, I now have an answer to Mrs Van Brenk's question as to how long entrepreneurs will have to wait for the NOW to be paid out. I've got that in my pocket by now. The UWV cannot guarantee fast payout. This can happen occasionally, but so far it has always been possible to do so within seven to fourteen days of application. With the NOW 1, when there was a huge influx of applications, the UWV managed to do this within seven to fourteen days. I'm going to cross this question before after the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u237	Now, Mrs Ouwehand. The interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u238	At least I've had all the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u239	Yeah, I know. The answers are sometimes too long, but the questions must be really short and so must the comments. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u240	I saw other colleagues stand up when it was about aviation, so that leaves me a question. All I'm saying is I'm a flight ban team. This also helps with climate goals. My question is: why are the slaughterhouses not closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u241	The slaughterhouses are with Mrs. Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u242	I want to know about the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u243	Then you'll get it in the second term. Then I'm gonna start by listening to her answer. Then I'm gonna repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u244	Then it's obvious. Mr Heerma and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u245	Mrs. Ouwehand here goes from soulless online salesmen to team flight ban. About the flying. I think it is very good that the Prime Minister indicates that something seems to be being arranged for the Schengen countries in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u246	Looks like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u247	Only, he didn't tell us when we'd hear about it. That is my first question: when will we hear about this? For this also applies to the fact that in five weeks' time it will be useless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u248	I'm gonna say "beginning of January." It's almost Christmas now. I'll get back to you. I'll double-check it, because it's not with me. It's with IenW and JenV. So I'm gonna ask you for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u249	Then there's my second question. I find it difficult for the Prime Minister to say that there is a flight ban and until then we can't do anything; if the Chamber wants to do otherwise, it has to be creative. But before that, he indicated that a conversation will take place. The use of that conversation must be "you will have to prevent this and you will have to take action on it, otherwise we will end up with that flight ban" instead of having to be creative?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u250	Yeah, that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u251	At what time will we get back what comes out of it and what is going to be done to prevent us from getting out of that flight ban scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u252	I will come back to Mr Heerma on the timing when Mrs Keijzer spoke about the Retail Agenda. I will come back to Mr Heerma on the question: when can you also regulate for the Schengen countries what is arranged for the non-Schengen countries? And I will come back to Mr Heerma because I am not doing it myself and I want to make sure that I do not promise anything that the ministers cannot deliver on when that conversation with the airlines took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u253	Also on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u254	Sorry, Mr. Heerma has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u255	And what they can do to prevent them from coming up with such rigorous measures. It's not just about the conversation, it's about the content of the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u256	But I would like to ask Mr Heerma, because politically that is relevant: the stick behind the door is the flight ban. At least, that's what I heard him say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u257	I have already referred in my first term to the fact that yesterday the Minister of Health said on television that in the end you will end up with a flight ban. That is also what the Prime Minister has just said. But he also indicates that you're actually trying to prevent that. Then he sticks to it: in fact, we have no instruments at all to prevent that. My questions are aimed at making that difficult for me. There's going to be a conversation with the airlines and there's going to be conversations with Schiphol, because I think what you can do to prevent it should be looked at. Then you need a stick behind the door, but that conversation should be focused on: how are you going to prevent it and what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u258	Just give me a minute, because I don't want to sell any bullshit. I fully agree with what Mr Heerma is saying here, but let's say that it has not been possible with the airlines so far, and that too little has been done to reduce the number of flight movements. Then my information at this time is going to double-check that out of a flight ban there is no hard measure. I'd like to have said that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u259	I would like to know a little harder, because I am not convinced of that. You can do all kinds of things to discourage, to spread and to prevent horrible images of accumulation. I do not believe that the reality is to accept that things are going wrong, or else a flight ban. I just don't see that. If it is properly sorted out and there is convincing communication coming to the Chamber in which it is completely explained, I want to accept it, but I find it just too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u260	This is a good one, but we're gonna figure it out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u261	Let me finish on this point, because, to be honest, I also find the answer unsatisfactory. Of course, you don't want airlines to offer all kinds of flights to destinations with negative travel advice. The Prime Minister rightly does the broadcasting to Dutch people to make only necessary trips and not to travel for holidays, winter sports, sun holidays and so on. However, after the debate on 28 October, this Chamber already adopted the Van Weyenberg/Veldman motion, which has the operative part: asks the government to make a negative corona test conditional on entering the Netherlands from a country with a negative travel advice. 28 October 2020 this Chamber already asked for a negative test when travelling to the Netherlands. Germany has been doing it for a long time now and has large test locations at airports. Italy has been doing it for a long time and has large test locations at airports. Why has the Dutch cabinet not succeeded since 28 October, while KLM and Schiphol are also asking for it? My second question is: is this also going to apply to Dutch people travelling back, not only to people from the Schengen area, but also to Dutch people? Because last summer it was among other festive young people who came from Spain by plane and brought that virus back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u262	I'd like to take it one step at a time. By the way, step by step in haste, because I share the urgency. We have now settled it for non-EU nationals for non-Schengen countries. We want to extend it to travel within Schengen, as I have just said. We want to do that as soon as possible, I even think we can do it very quickly without any legislative change. I cannot answer Mr Jetten's other questions with certainty now, and I would be standing here freewheeling. So I'm gonna take it with me in the news.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u263	Okay. Then I have Mr Klaver and then Mr Seegers. Mr Klaver will be the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u264	I'm gonna go back to what's still possible. We also have the travel advice. By turning countries on red, it becomes virtually impossible to ensure that journey. That's what inhibits it. Is it, therefore, considered to turn countries that we see go on holiday trips on red?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u265	No. This really goes against the whole system, against how we are trying throughout Europe to work on travel advice in a coordinated way. I'd think this was really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u266	Those travel advices aren't even right now. Belgium has all of Spain on red, for example. I understand that we are trying to look at it in a coordinated way, but it is a competence of the Member States, of the Netherlands. On the contrary, we have had a lot of problems with this in previous phases, when the whole Chamber said: it is a bit unclear; all these different countries have different views. Well, let's use that to our advantage now. This is an instrument that you can use and which goes far less than a flight ban, but which can make sure that people don't get on that plane. So is the Prime Minister prepared to consider this after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u267	No, I'm really against that. Because then you really destroy the whole system of travel advice. You really shouldn't do that. Really unwise. Don't. We have a system of travel advice. That's very precise. I find it really unwise to use it so politically now and say 'it does not come out of us that people are travelling from that country or to that country' when there is no direct epidemiological situation in that country. We are already putting countries on red if it is too dangerous there, we did so in March and April, if it was necessary, but we would do so on the basis of the argument we are talking about now. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u268	Just now, the Prime Minister said he couldn't look very closely at all the measures. He said that the primary education sector does not necessarily contribute a great deal individually, but that we must do everything we can to ensure that the number of infections stops and that therefore primary education is closed. There's a little bit of evidence missing. Now I say: we can ensure that those countries are turned red for a number of weeks. That's gonna make sure fewer people travel. The Prime Minister says: primary education up to that point can be closed for a few weeks, but it is not possible to move away from the structure of travel advice. I really don't get it. I don't understand. Otherwise, we're gonna fight for a no-fly zone. Also fine, but I would choose another option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u269	You can only break something once. The travel advice system can only be broken once. I think it's really unwise, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u270	Yes. This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u271	I have two more points. This is my last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u272	We don't agree. That's possible, isn't it? Listen. Of course you have to do everything. So I promised Mr Heerma that I would go and see what is possible with the airlines and what you can do if that leads to too little restriction. Sure. I would also like to assure Mr Klaver that we will also look again at the system of travel advice. I absolutely want to promise him that. I'm not gonna throw his suggestion in the trash. But I don't think it's wise. Why isn't it wise? Because we have a system of travel advice. We are trying to coordinate this as closely as possible in Europe, because coordination is relevant there. That helps. If you use that system for such a political reason, you'll destroy it. That's not why I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u273	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u274	But I'm repeating myself three times now. I am prepared to weigh it up, say to Mr Klaver in the spirit of compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u275	I welcome that, let me say first of all. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now saying that he is prepared to look at the travel advice and see if it is possible to turn it on red. It's about what's gonna happen next week, two weeks, Christmas break. It is therefore important for the Prime Minister to return to this debate. Once again, the Prime Minister can say: we do not agree on this. We don't agree on this. But if you do say rücksichtslos that primary education should be closed, but do not dare to intervene on the travel advice, I really think that is the wrong priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u276	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u277	No. The advice is clear: do not travel abroad unless it is really necessary. That is the advice to the whole of the Netherlands. What we are talking about now is how can you limit it to the maximum if people do this anyway? That is the commitment I made. That conversation will take place with the airlines. We'll map out exactly what you can do next. I have already said that we will certainly not reject the idea of looking at the travel advice in advance. But I can't put that kind of timing on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u278	It is with pain and difficulty that the schools close. Colleagues have asked questions about churches, with sometimes the suggestion as if they were some sort of fairs. I know from the second hand that that is not the case. We are sitting here with more people and closer together than in a church where a few people meet. But yet I also know from the second hand that there are sometimes scenes on Schiphol Airport, then it's about flying again and people are really close together and it's so busy that it's just shocking. We see pictures coming along that are just shocking, also in the light of what we do with education, for example. At least you can maintain that five feet. Is that gonna be maintained? In any case, it does not seem to maintain anything in the photographs we see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u279	Sure. Those were yesterday's photos. I found that one very worrying, too. First of all, let me say that this 1.5 meter distance applies to everyone everywhere. The only place where it really doesn't work is in public transport, which we have recognised with each other earlier this year, but that distance of 1.5 meters applies to everyone, including at airports. Schiphol has taken measures to this end. There is a maximum occupancy of the security bestaffing. There is a maximum bet of security lanes. There's passenger assistance. People on the work floor have been deployed to actively address travellers to adhere to the 1.5 metres. What happened with the photos that we saw, so I understand, is that there was a peak moment in which one did not stick to that 1.5 meter. Then the use of a non-medical mouth cap is also mandatory. A protocol has now been drawn up by Schiphol. An opinion has also been given on that protocol by RIVM. And we are further in conversation with Schiphol to keep these situations, photos and images, which also irritate me terribly, to a minimum if not to bring them down to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u280	It's not just a picture from yesterday, but it's happened a lot before. We see it all coming over on social media. There's inconvenience left in the room. We are prepared, with pain and difficulty and to a greater or lesser extent, to take a very painful measure in education. And this is not just from yesterday; this has been going on for much longer. Mr Jetten just referred to a motion on a negative test as a condition for entry. That's been going on for a while. There is some inconvenience, namely that there is a lot of space for flying and that there is a lot of space not to stand in a row within 1.5 meters and to go drooming for a desk. There really needs to be more action, especially in the light of the measures that are now being taken elsewhere in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u281	I very much agree with you. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u282	I have a question about education that had not yet been discussed. An exception has been made at the closure of schools for practical educational activities, which is also included in the ministerial scheme................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I also understand from coverage today that it is unclear what that means for special education and secondary special education. Can we be more clear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u283	Excuse me, I could've taken it with me right away. We ensure that customization remains possible for students in a vulnerable position. This means that schools are allowed to decide which students are involved. So these students continue to receive physical education, just like they did in March-April. An important part of pupils in special education actually comes almost q.q. Eligible. This also applies, of course, to children of parents with crucial professions. I've already mentioned that. Then, of course, there is the well-known exception in secondary education for the exam year, students taking school exams and students taking practical courses. But especially students in a vulnerable position, especially pupils in special education, are often eligible in practice to continue to receive physical education. That's actually similar to March-April. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I'm through all the questions. So I will come back to a few points that Mr Heerma asked me to make. The answer's coming. I am going to find out about this right now, so that I have a robust answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u284	Thank you. We're gonna wait a little while about the cleaning. Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u285	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister of all matters has already dealt with a number of questions, so I do not really have so many questions left. I'm sure you don't mind. First of all, we go to the questions about vaccination, about testing and about vulnerable people. First of all, the questions about vaccination. Last week we debated the vaccination strategy that we sent to the Chamber a few weeks ago. The main line is first vaccinate the vulnerable and then the people who take care of them. That is the priority target group. I promised to inform you before Christmas about exactly how we're gonna put that puzzle. I intend to do that early next week. With the first delivery of BioNTech/Pfizer, we will inoculate the staff in nursing care, disability care, community care and Wmo support. The exact date of delivery is a bit of a moving image. That also depends, of course, on the decision on admission. With the next vaccine after that, the Moderna vaccine, we will inoculate the residents of the nursing homes and the disability care institutions. I explained last week that the planning of this vaccination campaign is a complex puzzle, of which we are actually given a new piece of puzzles every day, so that we can take another step. The latest piece of the puzzle in that series is the announcement by the EEA that it may be able to adopt its opinion earlier than the 29th date mentioned, namely 21 December. That is what the 29th meeting is going to be, because it is going to be according to the schedule of meetings. So it's not quite certain it's going to be the 21st, but it's conceivable. This helps, because a lot needs to be done after the EEA has approved it. A lot has to be done before vaccination can actually start. This can, for a large part, be parallel. We try to switch that as much as possible in parallel, but it also has to be done in order. This concerns the European Commission's authorisation decision. It concerns the actual delivery, which follows the European Commission's authorisation decision. This is a Health Council opinion that clearly identifies the target group. It concerns the vaccination directive, which lists the effects, the adverse reactions and the contraindications. The latter are particularly important, because they have everything to do with completing the IT system, testing it, and educating people. The registration and registration system should really contain a number of scripts in which the contraindications are well included. Those scripts are needed for the people who schedule an appointment. Those scripts are needed for the puncture locations. Those scripts are also needed for the RIVM's who then inform the professionals who have questions when pricking. In addition, a number of other steps need to be taken. Everything is aimed at getting started as quickly as possible but also as quickly as is justified. Work is done 24/7, but vaccinations do not start at a week earlier, but at a careful and safe course. Carefulness makes an important contribution to the willingness to vaccination. Again, at the beginning of next week, I'd like to inform your room about the schedule. At present, the EEA notification is being reviewed to see if it gives rise to a change of planning. Well, we're looking at the significance of that to planning. Mr Dijkhoff asked whether the cabinet could indicate whether progress had been made in preparing the vaccines and, in particular, whether MBO students could help in administering the vaccinations. Of course, implementing parties have suitable staff. This is one of the reasons for working with different implementation parties, both at the institutions as well as at the public health services. Because of the specific properties of BioNTech/Pfizer, we have chosen to move to central locations to prick the care staff and ask the GGD to do the job. You know that this means that the GGD must take full action earlier than planned. The first tranche, the first run, which the GGD has to do is currently in preparation. This concerns a large group of caregivers, who for the first amount of supplied vaccines... Two shots. So these are about 225,000 care workers who can be pricked. They come from the group of staff from the nursing homes, the disability care institutions and home care. Two shots in six weeks, because you have to leave three weeks between the first and second shots. That's 75,000 vaccinations a week and the GGD has calculated that 350 pricks are needed for that. The GGD has also indicated that it does not see any problem in this regard. In addition, there is a lot of offer. Mr Dijkhoff referred to the MBO students, but also doctors' assistants are present. The GGD itself obviously has a lot of staff that is used to pricking, also from other corners of the organization. In the locations and the staff, the GGD directors see no major problem, so they have confirmed me several times. Furthermore, it was agreed with the Defence Department that 1,000 soldiers would be there who could be called up quickly for additional assistance in coordination and support and in pricking if necessary. Then, Chairman, the registration lists for the care staff. Mr Heerma asked for that. The process of summoning care workers is going to look like this. The employers invite by letter. That invitation can only be issued when the latest information on contraindications is available, i.e. only after EEA authorisation and after the advice of the Health Council. There is therefore a certain order, because at the time of the invitation, the people who are invited should also be able to inform themselves about any side effects and contraindications. Employers then distribute the agreements of their own staff. If the whole organisation is punctured in the same week, this leads to additional absenteeism throughout the organisation, which in turn can lead to the continuity of care. The distribution of agreements is therefore also necessary. Next, two appointments are scheduled directly through the national call centre, as a two-week cycle is required. I would also like to propose that you be informed about the registration process next week. Mr Segers asked about GGD support and a good infrastructure for vaccinations. How's the cabinet gonna support that? I have already indicated that the GD's have informed us that they do not see the biggest problem within the organisation with the staff or the locations. The biggest bottleneck in the speed of planning is getting the IT system done on time. That's the login and registration system. It should include scripts that are related to information that is only released when the EEA authorisation has been granted and have also been advised by the Health Council. This order means that the system can only be completely completed and that the training of the people working in the call centres can only then be completed. That is not a long education, not at all, but it is a factor that you have to take into account in time and in the order of things. That's supported to the maximum. The health services have indicated that they do not have any concerns with regard to the staff. In addition, we have, of course, put Defence in place to provide additional support if necessary. What role does the DOD play? I think I've answered that with this. By the way, DOD has a number of roles. They started a few months ago with logistical support on the planning side and vaccination execution. That's the support for the RIVM. In addition, the KMar is a partner in the agreements made about security in the logistics process. Furthermore, as I said, the agreement was made with the Defense Department to be able to call in 1,000 people very quickly in order to provide coordination and support and possibly prick if necessary. In addition, a request was made for support in the preparation of the distribution for the BES and the CAS. This is about transport and possible storage and about support in the execution. Mr Azarkan said that with a vaccine the pandemic is obviously not completely resolved. That's right. Contaminations continue to occur, at least for the time being. And vaccination is going to take time anyway, because deliveries will always be spread over time and we currently do not know which vaccines will eventually be approved and which deliveries will take place when. We always get delivery schedules, but you can only really build on them when the EEA has given its authorisation advice and the European Commission has taken its decision on admission. So we know that vaccination will just take a serious time. That is why it is good that we do a number of things at the same time. One is to take the measures we have taken, because in any case we will have to take measures with each other to control the virus. In addition, we will, of course, get to work as quickly as possible with as smart a vaccination strategy as possible. In doing so, we first protect the vulnerable people and the people who care for them, because they are most affected by the virus. If you are an end in that and you have also scaled up the test capacity in such a way that you can test high-frequency, risk-oriented, you are expected to be able to leave behind some of the most restrictive measures with that combination during the first half of next year. When that moment will be, has very to do with the level of contamination. Of course, we'll be advised by the OMT on that. That will not be until the beginning of next year, but the combination of vaccination, measures and tests should ultimately lead to the way out of this crisis. Mr President, that brings me to the end... No, one more thing, one more question. That is Mrs Kooten-Arissen's question as to the consequences of the hard lockdown on the vaccination campaign. None! The vaccination will continue. By the way, all other vaccinations continue. They are excluded from the lockdown measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u286	Did you answer all questions about tests with this? Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u287	It would be nice if we could reduce or abolish the measures in the course of next year after those vaccines, but this depends on whether the people who have been vaccinated can no longer infect other people. I asked the Minister the same question last week. Because the whole program falls or stands with that. I think that was your reply from last week. It can even work counterproductive if it doesn't turn out to be. Now I understand that it is not even clear whether the EEA can already look at that. There are also virologists who say that the EMA can't see it, because you can't see it until the vaccine is used. I would therefore like to ask whether you have any idea when we know that. Because that's what the whole operation is really about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u288	It'll take a while. I would like to make one nuanced remark about the standing or falling of the entire operation. As I understand it and have been explained by the experts, people are also more contagious when they are sick and develop a higher viral load. When people can't get sick themselves, they don't develop that higher viral load and they're at least less contagious. But the virus may still be in the throat and with that the infection has not been completely stopped. That's how you see it. It is not the case that the infection remains at a similar level. That's the first thing. Two. As I understand it, it is only possible to see it over time. It is not even very possible to say clearly when that can be seen. I expect that we will be the first to learn that from England, because they just started there earlier. So it doesn't have so much to do with the EEA verification, because you can't actually see it until after use in real life for a period of time. I do not have any indication of this at the moment, but I will ask you to do so and I will return to that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u289	I'd love to. The Minister is right: if you do not get sick, the viral load is less. Yet, if you lift the restrictions and we hope that will happen soon, you can still stand next to someone and cough that person in the face, and then you don't have to be very sick to be able to carry that over. You're right to say that England knows this first. That's what the Minister will come back to. But then my question is whether that is a month or two months or three months. Scientists should be able to give some more information about that, right? Can you send it to the chamber? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u290	Can you give us an indication of the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u291	I can come back to that in writing next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u292	Fine. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u293	Finally, a word about vaccination. Is this gonna be an annual ritual?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u294	That too is not yet exactly known, but the expectation is that it will be protective for a while. Of course, we haven't been able to try it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u295	The optimistic messages from the EEA and the optimistic messages from the Minister are that there can be a quick start. My concern is about the coincidence of the appeal to the GGD when testing, which should help us not to get new infections after the lockdown, as well as the vaccination program. The same employees or at least some of the same employees are employed for this purpose. How far is the Minister planning to train people to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u296	The GGD has indicated that it will work with this principle and not expect the use of vaccination to the detriment of the same people in the test streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u297	The OMT warns about this when testing travellers. We have just seen the debate with the Prime Minister, where it became clear that we no longer want travellers to come back and enter society untested. Isn't the OMT's warning justified? That would be great news. Or are measures being taken to be ready in time? I do not want us to swim in a bottleneck again unexpectedly, which results in less or less vaccination or less testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u298	The same questions you ask, of course, I also ask the GD three times a day. The GGD confirms time and time again that when it comes to manning that first run, people are not so worried. It's all over the country about 20 to 25 locations. It's about 350 pricks. The preparation of these locations is not the biggest logistical task for the GGD, but in particular the IT and registration systems. There is the orderality of the EEA authorisation and the advice of the Health Council, determining contraindications, building scripts and testing the IT system in practice. That's where the biggest concern lies about the time span of the operation. I have the understanding with the GGD about this: yes, we are doing this as soon as possible, we are working 24/7. The people who work on this don't have Christmas this year. I'm incredibly grateful to them for wanting to do that. And at the same time, we're not going to make accidents for a week on the precision of that. When it comes to testing, I understand the GGD's warning so much, I think, but then I should read it more accurately. We're still looking at that. I have indicated that I want to test the incoming passengers by mid-January on day five after entry. This can potentially make considerable use of the test capacity. That should be possible, if you look at the figures now, because considerable overcapacity has been created, and much more in January. But whether or not that is possible also depends on the way in which the infection rate will develop. There is actually the most important risk of doing so or not. There is already an execution test, but then the answer was that it should be possible. I asked you to do it again before we give a final go. I even think that this can only be said at the beginning of January, because then it will be clear what the outcome of the validation test and the antigen test will be. If you could put that in the test streets, the capacity problem is not the issue anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u299	Two brief questions, Mr. Chairman. One builds on Mr Asscher's question, because I have the same concern. Is it not a good idea to give an overview of capacity, testing, vaccination, source and contact research before the first debate in January? It's all coming together now. If we can then debate this, it may be reassuring, because I have the same concern or will succeed. We hope with that hammer we can get the numbers down and keep them down. Then, of course, that source and contact research, with all other efforts, is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u300	I'd love to. There is now a strong capacity. It's really impressive what was put there. I'm going to ask if the RIVM, the executive director on the vaccination, and the GGD would like to give a technical briefing in combination prior to the first debate in January. I will inform you about the state of execution next week anyway, because I think we can say more about the planning, so you will be served earlier than in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u301	Thank you for that. Then there's my second question. The call is: stay home as much as possible, don't go out. As a result, people at volunteer organizations say, "You know what, I'm staying home." At the same time, the VWS Minister said that he would like people to make a small gesture and show that people are not alone, looking at each other. Is there room for charity, is there room for someone to see? That, too, would help if the Minister, with a call, showed with word and gesture that there was room for that, also in a lockdown. That would help those volunteer organisations, who are now dealing with people who say, "You know what, I'm out of the game."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u302	Absolutely. I will come back to that in a moment when it comes to vulnerable people and what can be done, including in the context of loneliness. This was my block of vaccination. I'm holding an iron order, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u303	Okay, but while I'm here, I'd like to take this subject up. It would help if the minister really pushed, because it's a little critical. We only have two weeks left before Christmas. So if it could get a push from the Ministry, that would really help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u304	I very much agree. I'm about to let you know how I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u305	Just a quick question. The Minister just mentioned all the registration systems that should be in order for the vaccination campaign. A lot of people want to know if your patient files or anywhere else record that you've been vaccinated. You hear more and more that other countries want to demand that you have been vaccinated against corona as a requirement for entry. How can you show that as an individual in an easy way to others when that question is asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u306	It's actually two different things. The registration that is now being developed is a central register of RIVM, which can only be accessed by RIVM, and possibly at some point also by the people themselves, but for the time being only by RIVM. A link must now be built in with the recording systems of the various pickers. Whether that is the GPs or the GGD: those who actually prick should be able to link their registration system, i.e. their EPD or a variant thereof, to the national register in a safe way. Now it's about what exactly you register and how call scripts are put together. That is the short-term problem. Once that works, there has to be a central proof or a registration of vaccination somewhere, but the purpose of that national system is: what if a certain batch of a given vaccine shows a lot of side effects, how are you going to make sure you track down those people as soon as possible? If we are here to determine the measures and ask the OMT and the RIVM to model what measures are necessary given the accumulated immunity in the population as such and above that the vaccination rate in the population, then you need a current picture of the vaccination rate. That's why you need a central register. In short, there are a number of other reasons why we are currently building the central register. Prior to being able to answer the question you are asking, I have promised, I believe, Mr Van der Staaij, that we ask the Ethics Committee and the Health Council for an opinion on how to deal with a sign of vaccination in society, and that we can and may apply differences between people who have been and have not been vaccinated. The international dimension also plays a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u307	Good. Then you will now move on to the next topic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u308	Testing? Sure. A number of questions have been asked, among others by Mrs Marijnissen. In short: later, if we have managed to bring down the level of infection very much, are we ready to take it back up with tests and source and contact research? The answer is yes. We now have a huge test capacity, and also a huge source and contact research capacity. However, I would like to make a number of comments. I think the belief is too great that no more measures are needed if we are to test a lot. Not with you, but in society you hear that sometimes these or genes say that. Sometimes Slovakia is looked at in a resounding way. That's where they tested on a large scale. By the way, they did that in the situation of a lockdown. The interesting thing is that they had a heavy lockdown and a population-wide screening test, and as a result you have to see the graphs that we have followed the same line seamlessly. We had a partial lockdown, they had a complete one. They had full tests, we didn't. In the meantime, the infections have contracted just as much as here. A country like Luxembourg tests eight times as much. In the past period it has also been widely tested, just after the summer. But the second wave is twice as high there as in the Netherlands. Germany has had its tests in order for some time, but also there the infections just increase. In short, the idea that you can prevent measures or even a lockdown, if you have a good test and your source and contact research, has unfortunately not been true a number of times. Not only in the Netherlands, but also outside. I also have high expectations of testing and tracing, but I do not think you can separate it from remaining necessary measures. We are doing everything we can to increase the test capacity very significantly. I have sent you a letter on several occasions, and we have debated it several times here. We are now on our way to taking 10 million tests a month from March. That's a dot on the horizon we've set. We want to do this by building a great deal of capacity by rail, centrally organized, so by the GGDs organised with a lot of help from Defence and a lot of help from VNO-NCW. That has really given a huge acceleration in building capacity. Thus we are way ahead of what we had planned before, already 115 000 a day and in January 130,000 a day, being the capacity that is ready. And we'll build it up in a minute. In addition, through the second track, we are building the test capacity with the employers. D66 has asked how companies can proceed with rapid testing. We have set up a window where they can go from 21 December, so my goal, or at least where they can go at the end of December. December 21st was my intention. I do not know whether this will be possible until the date, but at least they will be able to get there at the end of December. In any case, we support employers' initiatives. VNO-NCW will also help organise a number of pilots and will also support the further roll-out and scaling-up of employers' initiatives to set up their own test streets. We are happy to help with the provision of the equipment and also to clarify the requirements that such a test street has to meet. Importantly, all validation studies on antigen tests have been completed or completed. They're ahead of the OMT, and we want the OMT to put a "go" on them to asymptoms. As soon as we can use antigen tests at asymptomates, it becomes really interesting for an employer to set up his own capacity to test his employees several times a week on entry to help keep that virus under control and thus reduce the extent to which you have lost people to quarantine or disease. Because of course all employers suffer from absenteeism. We are already doing this in the healthcare sector, for example. A lot of antigen testing is already being used there. By the way, antigen tests must always be reconfiled by PCR in the care. That has just to do with the reliability at this time of antigen testing. But if that could go off, that could be a great help. A third line that I believe very strongly in is home testing. If we really want to go to a situation where people test at a low-threshold frequency, it will eventually go through home tests. At the moment there is no validated test for that, but we are doing a lot of work, including Jan Kluytmans and his research group. I really believe in that most. That should be able to take a huge flight, for example via video-interactive guidance, so a video-guided take-off at home. If you then have proof of "this was the last result of the test I took," that could be a great help. How exactly we want to choose this application, we honestly do not know yet. But it's very likely, I'm sure. Then you asked about the Troika memo. I didn't read that until you pointed it out, because so much is being sent around these days. For the Wob applications from many angles and holes we have made an inventory. On VWS alone, we have come to, I believe, 800,000 documents. So there's another document being written. There was no date on that memo, but I understand this memo is October 25th. It says: This requires, among other things, testing policies and source and contact research which at present does not seem sufficiently detailed. Well, yeah, maybe it was. Although that was just over, because at the end of October we already had the greatest scarcity. But we did have a few short months at the time. So I don't see the excitement of that sentence myself, but it might be with memos: when they're public, the shine goes off. Then I guess I've had the questions about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u309	The Minister reacts somewhat laconically, if I may put it this way, on the part of three esteemed colleagues, I presume, from his cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u310	Absolutely. Highly esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u311	That's what I thought. But the explanation of that memo isn't easy. I'd like to talk to the Minister about that. The Minister's three colleagues say that such a lockdown that has now been chosen does not make sense because we are not sufficiently equipped. They also draw the conclusion that the virus will then rise again. That is a term that I believe the Prime Minister has launched here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u312	I would like to say that I myself launched it first, but I stopped using that word because the word does not seem to exist. But now the mp has taken over. That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u313	That's right; that's why. However, the meaning is clear, namely that we can go into a lockdown, for which we now choose, only after that the virus will boil up again or wink up the virus again or whatever you want to call it. But if three renowned and esteemed colleagues of this minister come up with such a note, which says so, then surely it is not strange that the Chamber should give an account of what that is about? From the Prime Minister we understood that it had indeed been on the table once in the Catshuis meeting. The Prime Minister said it had not been discussed, but it had been a table. Well, since the dividend memos, we know we have to be careful when it's not discussed but we've been on the table. But the main thing is that the Minister is actually saying: those three colleagues were completely wrong and there is nonsense in those notes about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u314	No, of course I would never put it that way. Look, apparently the note was on the table, but I didn't read it at the time. That didn't happen. You can't work through every pile of paper. That's one. Two. In fact, that passage in that memo is based on the same premise that if you do a lot of tests and a lot of source and contact research, then there is no chance of a next wave and you actually don't have to take any more measures. That's not true. It is true that if you do a large-scale test and do that in a risk-oriented way, that can help and that can then have a rather inhibiting effect, if the follow-up is also well organized, i.e. if the people then, if they are tested positive, actually sit with the ass on the couch. That's what needs to happen, so your BCO must be in good shape. If I look now at where we stand, we have organised an enormous overcapacity. There are 115,000 tests a day. Last week, on average, around 70,000 were taken. So that's a lot more than it was. But there's a lot more capacity. So that's good news. Two is that 7,700 FTE of BCO capacity is now available. We have now divided the BCO into levels 1, 2, 3 and 4. That's the intensity of the BCO. You can do 3,000 full BCOs, 9,000 level 2-BCOs, 14,000 level 3-BCOs and 27,000 lean BCOs. If you're through that, you can bet this capacity, if it's just about instructing and calling test results, even up to 55,000. We're just gonna keep training. There's a huge army standing by. In international terms, too, this is simply a very strong capacity. So if I look at where we stand now, I think we've got something very impressive set up together. I'm going to say it again: I think the GD deserves an insane compliment for what they've done in the past few months. Suppose you then think: but then we might also be able to avoid the third wave, and then perhaps we won't have to take any more action, if we use it very intensively. Then I think: the lesson from Luxembourg is that it is not. There it was: eight times as many tests, twice as high a wave. The lesson from Slovakia is that it is not: a large-scale test experiment, but our partial lockdown was as effective in effect as their complete lockdown and their large-scale test experiment. In the meantime they are in the same upswing, unfortunately, I say as the Netherlands. If only that were the trick of putting measures behind you in the end. It's not that. There's a inhibition effect, if you do it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u315	I certainly agree with the Minister that the GD deserves a compliment. Especially when you know that they have been given a lot more tasks in recent years and not more money, and so there has been de facto cuts on the GGD's, they are indeed doing very well. However, I think that the Minister is too easily ignoring the point that, if we are to get out of this lockdown, hopefully on 19 January, we will have to make sure that we manage to control the virus. He cannot deny that the testing and the research of sources and contacts are the basis of this. I heard the Minister say that capacity is now available for 3,000 full source and contact investigations. I assume that's a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u316	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u317	To be honest, I don't think that's so much. That actually means we shouldn't be at that level of infection, otherwise we could lose sight of the virus again, if we can't keep an eye on it properly. Because we can all think of it: at the moment of some relaxation, the number of infections may also increase. The Minister must agree with us that we must do better than we have done, because the draconian measures we are dealing with today have otherwise been for nothing and we may end up in a new lockdown in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u318	So one more time: that 7,700 FTE is an astronomical number. Once again, with just testing and tracking, you're not gonna avoid a third wave, but it's gonna help. Because if you do the testing and tracing very well, there's an inhibiting effect of that. How do you do the very best? By simultaneously taking measures that keep the level of infection low. If you do that, tests and source and contact research are effective. That has to do with the numbers, but also with the leakage that is always there. There are always asymptoms in between, people always slip through the source and contact research that you just didn't get. The higher the level of contamination, the more BCOs you have to do and the greater the leakage you can expect from the system of testing and tracing. So you have to do both. You need to take measures that keep the level of infection low. Then the testing and the source and contact research are effective, especially if you do this on a large scale and risk-oriented basis. In addition, you have to do access tests, because access tests also help to make events possible again, et cetera. We talked about that. We agree with that. So that's what we're gonna start with. In short, I do not think that we disagree very much, but I would like to emphasise that a considerable capacity has been built up. Well, that's a good thing to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u319	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u320	Then I'm done testing and tracking and going to vulnerable people. I shall begin with Mrs Van Brenn's question about the nursing homes. As Mrs Van Brenn rightly said, they are indeed not locked. That is the lesson we learned from the first wave. At the same time, you have to worry about high occupancy rates, because people in nursing homes are just as vulnerable. We know that the virus can enter in two ways: through staff and through visitors. So we need to do everything we can to keep the virus out of the door. That's just not easy. You can see that the number of infected sites is fully correlated with the level of infection in a particular region. Everything has been done: taking hygiene measures, instructing staff properly, introducing cohort care, large-scale testing in case of an outbreak. This is how we try to prevent further spread. Everything is organized for psychological assistance and support. There's a lot of support. I honestly do not know what additional support measures we could take, but I would also add that I am prepared to take any additional support measures. Because I think we should do everything we can to support our nursing homes. It's not for nothing that they line up in front of the vaccination. Then I'll go to Mr. Krol. Then I come to Mr Segers' questions. Mr Krol, Mr Heerma, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Brenk have all asked what the measures will mean in the coming days for loneliness. With all the measures we have taken, we have had stomach pains over the past weekend, on many fronts. What does it do to entrepreneurs? What does it do with schools and our kids? But certainly also: what does it do to our elderly people who live at home or who live in a nursing home and what does it do to other people who are vulnerable and lonely? Especially at this time they feel more lonely, now that the dark days are dawning. With all the sweet, cozy Christmas commercials they think: I would have liked to, but that doesn't apply to me. For people who are already lonely, Christmas is not a pleasant time; not at all. That extra attention to loneliness is always there at this time. We have chosen to combine all the initiatives that exist around the approach of loneliness and around Christmas, from the churches, for example, and from our own approach One against loneliness, where a very broad national coalition is behind a number of voluntary organisations, such as the Stichting Present and the Foundation Humanitas, under the heading "A small gesture can make a difference." I think that was on the initiative of Mr Segers. You can also see that on a small gesture.now. That's where all the volunteer initiatives have been brought together. That should bring with it a mass of small gestures. We cannot solve loneliness with each other, but we can lighten or break through one's loneliness, we can all do that by making a small gesture. And that is the task these organizations have given themselves: to make a massive movement of it on the way to Christmas. I would very much like to invite you to participate in this. At least I'm gonna love doing that myself. You can report to one of the organizations and ask: where can I help? That's just great. We all have social media coverage. That way we can carry on that action and that movement. I would therefore very much like to invite you to do so. Mr Krol asked: what else is happening to promote this approach? Municipalities support with their local coalitions all projects that combat this loneliness. More than 200 municipalities have now joined the approach One against loneliness. This is often about very practical things, such as a shopping service for people, etc. Tomorrow, as a result of the Asscher motion, I have an appointment with, I believe, 200 municipalities which share with us and with each other what they have all taken in social support initiatives. That was the suggestion in the Asscher motion: see what municipalities are doing, see how you can come up with them to share that type of experience, how you can carry it forward and how you can perhaps further support it. Ask also the question to municipalities how we can help them to do even more together in social support for people. So that's gonna take place tomorrow. That has already been postponed a number of times, because there was a debate in between. Then you've got it! But tomorrow is really the time for us to talk. I mentioned the action "A small gesture can make a difference." We have the national campaigns on TV and radio. If it's okay, you've taken note of it. And if you haven't taken notice of that, you haven't watched a lot of TV lately and you haven't listened to a lot of radio. We now have a lot of listening and helplines. They're working overtime these days, too. In addition, we also monitor the social effects of the lockdown. This is done by the behavioral unit of the RIVM. That is actually an important part of the answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question. He asked: what do municipalities actually do for elderly people living at home; do we have enough of them in our sights? Municipalities have many eyes and ears in the neighborhood. Some have a telephone corona support, some even have a special corona neighbourhood team. And, as I said, tomorrow I will be snorkeling up all those initiatives taken by the various municipalities on this point. The continuity of care and support is also an important issue. That really was the lesson of the first wave. In that first wave, the lockdown was immediately translated into "o by a lot of health care workers, but now I have to do my ggz support only image-calling" or "then I must also be reluctant to get over the floor as a district nurse." The other way around is at least so true, that people themselves said: the neighborhood nurse who goes door to door; rather not for a moment, because you don't know if he takes the virus under the arm. Well, we shouldn't have that anymore. That is why the message has really been to all healthcare institutions: daily spending must continue as much as possible, activities for vulnerable people and the most vulnerable people in the neighbourhoods must continue as much as possible, and please also let the community care and domestic support continue as much as possible, because it is important to keep an eye on each other and to ensure that this attention for each other and that eye for each other does not deteriorate. That message stays the same. That is also an answer to Mr Segers' question. Those were the questions of the various members on how to deal with loneliness. Then there are the other vulnerable groups: young people, homeless people and people with psychological problems. There was a question from Mr Klaver about that. For our young people, Mr Blokhuis announced his plan last week, together with municipalities. The cabinet makes 58.5 million available to municipalities to offer young people and young adults more perspective in the corona time. This is, of course, important in the coming weeks. Mr Heerma said: start with this and do not wait until all plans have been made in January; start with it as soon as possible. That's what's happening. For homeless and homeless people and the people with ggz problems, having and keeping structure is of great importance. Here, too, daily spending continues for that reason and also continues the outpatient care and day care of clients in the ggz during the lockdown. That's really an improvement on the first wave. In addition, for all homeless people, including those who are not normally entitled to do so, night care is open for the duration of the lockdown. Secretary of State Blokhuis remains in consultation with the parties to see what is then additional needed for this group. As directors of VWS, we remain in talks with parties at all to see what is additional for vulnerable groups. I had already mentioned that tomorrow there will be a meeting with municipalities following the Asscher motion, in which we can share all these types of initiatives from municipalities. Mrs. Van Brenk asked if there were any extra places for homeless people. Yes, municipalities have been called again to offer all homeless people a place for the night and to realize enough places where people can go during the day, given the general advice to stay home. Of course, you'd have to have a house. The Ministry of VWS today published a new directive including this. Municipalities are now implementing these places in good consultation with VWS and with the reception institutions. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked whether there are now in the picture how many homeless people there are and whether it would be an idea to introduce vouchers. The CBS will come next spring with a new estimate of the number of homeless. Municipalities normally offer shelter to homeless people who are entitled to it in accordance with the 2015 Wmo: not self-reliant, but a valid residence permit. If a person comes forward, the municipality checks whether the host institution is entitled to care. So they don't need a voucher for that. In this lockdown period, as has been said, non-righteous persons are also taken care of. They also report to the municipality or the host institution and therefore do not need a voucher. A voucher is not then necessary for food distribution either. In fact, all the municipalities have made all kinds of arrangements for this. That was the last block again, Mr. Chairman. It can go fast, can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u321	Well, I love it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u322	Also considerably shorter than the Prime Minister, I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u323	That's what I was going to say at the end, but you're not done. I'm keeping track of it all exactly. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u324	Compliments to the cabinet and to Secretary of State Blokhuis, who is indeed working hard with the municipalities to realize those extra places in the nightcare for homeless people. This lockdown is going to take place in the winter months, so it's even more important than in the spring that nightcare is there. But during this debate it was announced that the COA did not have the coulance regime that it had in the spring. Refugees and asylum seekers who do not have a view of their stay in the Netherlands are now being thrown into the street by the COA not in the reception locations. Where cities work hard to provide night care for the homeless, refugees are thus thrown out. That seems very undesirable to me during this lockdown, so I ask the cabinet to apply the same coulance scheme to the COA during the five weeks of lockdown this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u325	I'm a simple man: I can only do one thing at a time. So I didn't read that message because I was standing here. So maybe it's okay if I take a second look at how we could handle this and check with JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u326	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u327	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u328	The Prime Minister has spoken for over an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u329	Yeah? That might be good. Are you paying attention? Yeah? Talked for over an hour and a half, yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u330	And you spoke for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u331	That's the way it can be!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u332	Yeah, that's right. It's in the Acts. Gross, huh? Net I keep to myself. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have received a number of questions from your Chamber in the area of regular care and the staff in the care. I have also received a number of questions about zoonoses, fungi and slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u334	I understand you have a new wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u335	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the signals that came out of the contribution of your Members of Parliament. Those are the signals that also reach us from the hospitals. I can say from the patients' side as well as from the employees' side that sometimes it is about heartbreaking signals. The IGJ and the NZa, the regulators in the care that deal with quality, accessibility and safety, have also taken the signals to the head and put them in a letter. They indicated that there are current risks to the situation in the care sector. They have a clear picture of that. It's about three components. On the one hand, it is about increasing covid care itself. Of course we see it in the infection rates, which are then followed by hospitalizations, which are then followed by occupation in intensive care. It is a serious concern for the patient, but also for the employees in the care. Where a nurse normally has one patient in his care in intensive care, the circumstances at present sometimes require two or even more patients to take care of them. Regular care is also under pressure. Many of you have referred to that. This concern, which continues, is also more serious concern. We can all continue with the care that is really needed. Next, we also have to deal with the situation that many health care workers, Mrs Marijnissen, said'slow down the hoofs', and that is how it feels, indeed, almost collapsed under the pressure. In short, the rack is out. You made that very clear. Employees in the care sector have also indicated this, as have the directors and supervisors in the care sector. I do not think we can and should ignore that signal. It is an important carrier of our intervention, especially because what we are doing now will only give relief in a few weeks' time. This has to do with the lead time of the contagion rates through hospital admissions to the ICU admissions, as I had already indicated. Which means we don't have time to waste. Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol referred to this issue, also in relation to the report published today by RIVM and the NZa. Mr Wilders also referred to this in his speech. RIVM today provided an initial estimate of the health effects of the first wave of covid infections. This is the situation of this spring. I can tell you that I was shocked, because it is a huge number. It is a loss of at least 50,000 healthy years of life in medical-specialist care. It is perhaps a good thing to point out here that it is not 50,000 deaths, but the loss of healthy years of life. It may well be that in reality it is a higher loss, because care in nursing, home care, ggz and general practitioners was not delivered or later. We see that RIVM, apart from calculations of skin cancer, has not yet been able to make calculations for oncology. This has been an important consideration to come to the lockdown. We want to reduce contamination, not only because it is impossible to do otherwise for covid care, but also because it has too long and too much impact on many sectors and therefore on the health of people who do not have covid contamination. We did learn some lessons from the first wave of infections. Unlike in spring, we want to reduce regular care as little as possible and we want to leave regular care outside the lockdown measures. The current lockdown excludes contact professions with a care background, so that people can allow access to regular care as much as possible. I should also like to refer to the draft resolution on the capacity of the ic's and the clinical beds. I will come to that later, in response to Mrs Van Brenn's question. And, of course, I would like to draw attention to the temporary policy framework for ensuring acute care, which we have talked about before in this Chamber. I would also like to stress here that it is not the people in the care that are responsible. It is not a reproach to the people in the care that we have come into this situation. In fact, I think it's for them that we're doing this because they're really committed. Mr Van der Staaij asked about his motion to increase care capacity outside the hospital and to concentrate corona care in a number of hospitals. That motion had two parts: drawing up a plan for corona care per region, but also examining the possibilities for that care outside the hospital. As far as that last part is concerned, together with the GGD's, I have developed a national plan for care capacity outside the hospital. These include 300 places that need to be available immediately, 550 additional places that need to be put into service in 72 hours and 1,202 places that can be realized within two weeks. The GHOR regions keep their finger on the pulse every week. The question they made on 9 December, which is the most recent one, shows that there are 706 places occupied of the 1,276 available places. The conclusion I draw from this is that there is enough capacity available at the moment. With the exception of the Rotterdam-Rijnmond crisis region, it is still possible for each region to scale up further in capacity. Further scaling up is a decision of the Director of Public Health. But here too, I say in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, human capacity is the biggest bottleneck. In all regions, therefore, we are looking creatively for the use of temporary employees. On the other part of your motion, I stated in the letter of 8 December that I asked the National Network of Acute Care to draw up a plan. That plan is in the final phase. Once I have received the results, I will share it with your Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u336	I hear a lot of numbers and a lot of technique, but I do not really hear that the Minister realizes that there are just people of flesh and blood behind those figures. You can say that you're very shocked by those 50,000 years of life and that this isn't about killing, but yes, it doesn't make it much better. It is 50,000 years of life, by the way only 50,000 for the 28% of the medical-specialist care that has been studied, so those 50,000 years of life can just become 200,000 years of life. This means that people, a lot of people, five, ten, fifteen years, maybe a few years, live shorter lives. That's what it means for people's lives. This means that a lot of people may have died of it this year. Again, not these numbers, but a lot of people. That means you just didn't get the hang of things this year. People are affected by that. People have lost someone. People who have had a serious disease indeed, as far as cancer is concerned, only the figures concerning melanoma, skin cancer have been taken into account, for the rest nothing has been noticed that treatments have been postponed, treatments for cancer and other treatments. I have mentioned examples of this in recent months. People just see the quality of their lives and life expectancy deteriorating. Those aren't numbers; they're flesh and blood people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u337	Yes. I hate it, too. That's what I reported. Behind all these numbers, I say that to Mr Wilders, there are people. People who, for example, have had a delay in surgery and suffer from pain and who sometimes also have a lower quality of life in the longer term. In previous debates, I have already indicated that if there has been a previous death, there has been irreparable suffering. I think it is very important to draw lessons from this. I would like to point out that this is about the loss of healthy years of life. So it may also be that, although people do not live shorter lives, they must learn to live with more pain. That's terrible, too. We must learn from this because we have seen in the first wave that all care has fallen out of our hands in order to provide covid care. That is also apparent from the number of non-references that this summer was 850,000 and now it is 1.1 million. That indicates that although we are dealing with large numbers now, behind which people are all in pain and with stories, we have managed to keep more of that regular care going. I think that has been a very important lesson that RIVM and the NZa are now zooming in together, namely that we do not want this. For the cabinet, it is also a very important pillar of the measures we have now taken, because we see that this is the most important thing: covid care, but also care for people in regular care. It has to be able to get through, because behind every number is a human being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u338	I'm glad you said that. This could not, of course, have been avoided to a large extent if we had had our care in order. You can't predict a virus completely and prevent an extreme situation altogether. I don't want to say that here either. But look at a country like Germany. Look at the capacity in the hospitals. Look at the capacity in Germany at the ic's. Again, there too people die and there they are now in a lockdown, but there they have been able to prevent this kind of numbers. There is the scaled-down concern of a totally different order, if it is already present, than we have in the Netherlands. So the lesson, Madam Secretary, should not be alone: for that we now have that lockdown. You should also dare to look back and say: care would have been less scaled if we had had our care in order, if we had more capacity for crisis situations, more ic capacity in the beginning, but especially if we had more care staff and less part-time staff. If there were just more care staff, that care would be less scaled down. How many times have I discussed this with you and the rest of the Chamber? Then those 1.1 million people were...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u339	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u340	No, Madam President, this is important. There are 50,000 people, years of life... They're just people who live less, shorter lives. That might be the worst, apart from all the dead, what happened this year. Then you must also have the courage to look back: what do we learn as a cabinet when it comes to quality and investment in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u341	Perhaps just for the sake of completeness: these are people who have less healthy years of life. So it's not necessarily the case, I would have liked to say, that people live shorter lives. Of course, there are also people who have died, which is truly irreparable suffering. I think Mr Wilders is right. That's why we asked for this report that you want to learn from that first wave. Then we didn't know about the virus, the hospitals were flooded and it was "covid care and nothing else." At least this summer, learning has also resulted in the fact that care itself has said: we are going to scale it up. That facilitated VWS. This report gives colour, figures, quantitative information I know that Mr Wilders appreciates it because you really have to let those lessons get to you. But if you look at how our health care is organized, then we leave a lot to the professionals in how they want to organize themselves. In this second wave, we have also asked the doctors: do you now consider how we can help people well, where the criterion is that there are no lost years of life and that there is no irreparable health damage. But also a comparison with another country, such as Germany, is only partly true because their organisation of care is very different. I know that Mr Wilders has said a number of times: a number of emergency rooms have been closed and hospitals have been closed. But if you look at the size of the Netherlands and the numbers of healthcare organisations we have, then it should be possible for everyone to get as close as possible good care. And yes, there are issues. We too look in the mirror. That is one of the reasons why we have laid down the charcoal sketch for acute care. There's a lot of unrest about that because that's what people feel like: are things going to close? But we just want to see each other in the mirror again. How do we get the care that is needed close, and perhaps concentrated if it is absolutely necessary? For example, we look at and learn on all fronts in the mirror, but perhaps the most important lesson for this wave is that we need to scale down regular care as little as possible, because it can really lead to great suffering and health damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u342	Finally, I fear you have learned very little. Again, I don't assume evil intentions from anyone, and certainly not from you, but I don't think you've learned that much. Because if at the beginning of this year you had your care in order, had more staff, had more capacity, then these figures would have been... Fifty thousand years of life have been lost. Again, it is only 28%; in reality, there may be hundreds of thousands. That's terrible news. I'm not saying "not," but that would have happened less. You say "closer to the people," but your charcoal sketch ultimately means that in the future you will simply remove the hospitals and the nursing homes. That's what that charcoal sketch means. Closer to the people is VVD language for closing hospitals, because you will do less. Well, then you didn't learn the lesson after all. I find that extremely regrettable, not for me or for you, but for all those people. All those 50,000, 100,000, 150,000 years that people live less healthy; you can't be serious, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u343	We have organized the care, for example intensive care, in the Netherlands to the content of the care, to places where it is needed, with the occupation that is needed. Then you look over the years how much there is. It's the doctors who say you shouldn't just put beds and people down, because then people stand there when there's no patient. From the care organisation, the healthcare professionals themselves, are very committed to this. At the beginning of this year it was a surprise for the whole world. That's when we were heading in the fog. That is why we now want to learn, learn, and why we have said in this wave: regular care needs to be scaled down as little as possible and what is scaled down must be medically justified. That is why we also say to people: if you have a complaint, please contact the GP. Because let it be a medical consideration as much as possible. I think that what the healthcare regulators say from the signs from the care is also important, namely: now we need to reduce the levels of infection; we need to intervene now. It's a shaky balance, they said. It may still be possible, but if these contamination rates do not fall, the quality, accessibility and safety of care will be at stake. That is a huge motivation for me to work on it, no matter how difficult the measures are. Mr. Chairman. I come to the staff in the care, because there is still a lot to be said about that. Mrs Marijnissen did the same. It also sounded in many contributions. Something has really changed compared to the situation at the beginning of the year. As Ernst Kuipers put it yesterday: in the first wave you started with zero covid patients and with a normal situation in the hospitals; now we have an increase with the starting point of full hospitals and overtired care workers. You can also see it in the spread. That's where the rack's off, too. At first you had a region where you could still go, but now it's just as bad everywhere. So there are no more quiet regions. That has a lot of consequences for the people in care. Mrs Marijnissen illustrated that. I recognize that, too. You hear from people how spicy it is to have to move patients, or that they have to change every time they start helping another patient. You feel responsible for people. If they need to be transported, it feels a little like your patient needs to leave. If you have to work so hard, there is indeed the risk that the candle will burn both ways. We received from the supervisor the signal that the average absenteeism is currently 8%, which is a substantial number, but that it also rises to 20% in a number of departments. Then it's almost impossible to do. Mrs Marijnissen asked, apart from the discussions we have had and still have on how we give hands and feet to the appreciation, how we now support people. That is a very important question. That's a primary need when you see the situation like that. She referred to deployment from the Red Cross and Defense. They are already being used a lot in practice. That runs through the regular crisis structures, even since the first wave. I am very grateful and grateful to the people of the Red Cross and Defence for that. From the Red Cross they jump in on non-medical tasks. They have a civilian network under the name Ready2Help ready. DOD's working from a central location again. Currently there are around 150 military care providers active in the UMC Utrecht at the clinical cohort departments and at the ic. It is not just about doctors and nurses, but also about support staff. Those people are able to really relieve the nurses. And of course, I've referred to it more often than not. We have extra hands for care and the National Care Class, and we try to relieve the HR departments. We have also strengthened the initiatives in the care sector with the budget of EUR 80 million for the temporary paid corona jobs. In this way we can achieve about 5,000 full-time jobs in healthcare or 10,000 half-time jobs. Mr Wilders would rather not see half-time jobs, but we can create about 10,000. A letter was also sent to the Chamber. There is also extra attention to psychic support from different angles. But there is, of course, a limit to this too. I also just gave the example of the nurse on the ic who normally works one-on-one, so with one nurse on one patient, and now with one nurse on 2.4 patients. That is possible because there is support, but of course you have to do certain tasks yourself. So that's also the border on it. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen asked about the bonuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u344	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen had to go to the interrogation committee, which is why she is absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u345	Okay. I shall, of course, answer her question. She asked how many bonuses have already been paid. The adadium is: if the application is submitted in a timely and complete manner, it shall be assessed as soon as possible. At present, this applies to a large number of applications. There is still a small proportion of the applications for evaluation ahead and I expect that around 97% of the applications will have been assessed and paid out by the end of this week. As of 15 December, a total of EUR 2 billion has been transferred to institutions for their employees and to third parties, as I say in the direction of Mr Azarkan. This amounts to about 1.1 million people who have received or will receive this money in the short term through their employer or client.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u346	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u347	I have a few short questions, but more in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u348	Also from Mrs. Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u349	No, not from Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u350	Okay. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u351	The Minister lists what is happening to support caregivers. That is necessary, but my question was, of course, what the cabinet is going to do in the next few weeks. This room has recess after this week. We're three weeks in recess, but we also know, now that we're here together tonight, that it's going to be three hell weeks for the caregivers. It's been a really tough time, but it's getting a lot heavier. My question is therefore specific: what is the cabinet going to do next? We have made some suggestions for this ourselves, but for us it is especially important that we also ask care providers: what is the most helping you now? So what are we going to do extra in the next few weeks to support those caregivers to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u352	I would like to say to Mrs Marijnissen that I am going to ask this concretely from the people in the care, in the discussions that I have periodically and very regularly with the representatives of the profession and with the employees' representatives. I think that's important. In any case, I myself have the impression that there has been a huge demand to restore the situation to a level that reduces the risks of infection and thus also relieves the situation in the care sector. Of course, I haven't talked to all the people in the care department in the last few days, but it's felt like a huge support that we're doing this. People are very much aware of the weight of the package. But I think a lot of people in the healthcare sector really have the feeling that they really do, but I also ask Mrs Marijnissen, because she also speaks to a lot of people in the care that the Netherlands is now shoulder-to-shoulder with the people in the care. That is, I think, something we can do in concrete terms, but I am also very willing to discuss with the representation what more we can possibly do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u353	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u354	Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma asked how we could support home-working parents and whether, for example, calamity leave could be used for this purpose. I have only taken up this question with the questions about the labour market, because many people are also concerned about these questions. I think Mr Heerma was very illustrative of the concerns of home-working parents. This question, of course, lies partly in the policy area of my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs, but I do have some knowledge of it. There is, of course, a great responsibility on the part of the employer. Employers are responsible for making agreements in consultation with the employee and for making workers work at home as much as possible. There is a lot of information available on the various national sports. There are also campaigns with VNO. There are websites such as slimwerkgeven.nl and hoewerkennederland.nl. But I have not yet been able to study the proposals of the Foundation for Working Parents, a foundation I know well. I would therefore like to ask Mr Heerma if I can pass this question on to my colleague from SZW. In the direction of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who also asked the question whether an employer should demand that someone should be allowed to take vacation days if homework fails... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I have a tickle in my throat. It's a tickle. If homework does not succeed, it is actually the intention to allow employer and employee to do so in consultation. Here too, agreements may have been made about this in the collective agreement, but I refer people to the information on national government.nl. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions about zoonoses and fungi. I had a discussion on this with Mrs Van Esch last week. At that time, I undertook to inform the Chamber of the latest state of affairs. I'm going to do that with the Minister of LNV soon, so I'm going to respond to that. But I'm also going to go into this a little bit now, because I think that's okay. For patients with a weakened immune system, infection with that fungus is a major problem, especially if a fungus is resistant. Following Mrs Van Esch's question last week, we contacted the expertise centre fungal infections and we have indeed received new information there. Preliminary analyses show that COVID-19 patients on ic with aspergillus............................................................................................................................................................. It is then specifically 51% of the people versus one third of the people without the fungus. At the moment we are investigating how best to deal with this fungal infection in COVID-19 patients. I think that's necessary, too. However, it is true that the occupational groups have prepared a preliminary treatment advice. It says that COVID-19 patients on the ic do not need to be treated standard against the fungi, but that they do need to be examined at low threshold. If signs of this fungus are found, treatment should also be started. I also had an exchange of views with Mrs Van Esch on the underlying issue of the azoles last week. These are widely used in medicines, cosmetics, wallpaper adhesives and plant protection products. It is really important to see which application leads to which resistance. Then you come to certain hotspots where resistant forms are present in relatively large quantities. This is particularly true when it comes to commercial composting. Let me look in the direction of Mr Segers. It's all about flower bulbs, isn't it? The garbage from flower bulbs is such a hotspot. That's the kind of hotspot we're gonna do. This form of waste disposal and storage will therefore be terminated as soon as possible. In the first quarter of 2021, the Ctgb amends the legal usage requirement, which will speed up waste disposal, to be precise: within two weeks. During storage, the waste must be covered. This brings to an end the development of resistance in those waste heaps. In anticipation of the change in the use requirement, the sector already works in a different way with these waste heaps. In addition, the Ministry of IenW is doing research on wood and green waste, as these are often the subject areas where different ministries work together. Those are two hotspots that emerged from earlier research. We have also brought the problem of azoles to the attention of the European Commission, because the authorisation of plant protection products is a European matter. Mrs Ouwehand asked if it was an intrinsic motivation of the cabinet to ensure better basic health. It referred to ten years of warnings of the danger of fungi, agricultural poison and air quality. I have just said something about a specific fungus, of course, but I hope it is also an illustration of the intrinsic motivation we feel for good basic health. The motto of VWS is: The Netherlands healthy and sound. We work on this with other departments, with IenW, but also with LNV for agriculture. I have just referred to the fungi, but we are also doing research into livestock farming and the health of local residents. There is also a specific follow-up study on goat farms. A lot is being done about air quality. Together with the colleagues of LNV and IenW we are also working on reducing the emissions of particulate matter and on the Clean Air Agreement. That goes even wider, because in my previous job as Secretary of State for Social Affairs I also received the advice of the Health Council, which often go to several ministries. I would like to say that environmental quality has improved, but I will be on Mrs Ouwehand's team right away, when I say that improvements are certainly possible and necessary, and we are also working on that. There is a commitment from the government regarding the handling of animals and nature, in view of the developments and impact of zoonoses on humans, animals and society. The cabinet has said that we want to look forward to that. You will receive the letter with the plan of approach from us as soon as possible. I've even heard it's in my bag, so I hope to get it to you before Christmas. And then Mrs Ouwehand's question as to why the abattoirs are open. That has to do with being part of the food chain. That is what Mr Segers said very specifically, I think. They are essential, but there is also an obligation for the administrator to comply with the duty of care. Workers must be able to keep their distance and protocols have been drawn up to give effect to this duty of care. Of course, if it really does go wrong, it must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u355	Mrs Ouwehand, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u356	It sounds a bit like there's nothing going on, but this was the block about the problems that the Minister of Medical Care caused to the Minister of Health. Agricultural poison leads to health problems, the risk of zoonoses is not adequately mitigated, but I am glad that the cabinet will come up with a plan before Christmas and also the slaughterhouses. I really have a question for the Minister. We saw they were fireplaces, and then everyone would be tested. That was reduced to risk-oriented testing. Each time we ask how much has been tested and then the cabinet turns around a bit. Then it is very relevant: why leave the slaughterhouses open, if you do take other drastic measures, when they can prove to be a fireplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u357	I sure as hell ain't gonna say nothing's going on. In fact, I have once again been in this Chamber with three directors, from LNV, VWS and SZW, because there was an exchange of views with the Chamber. Well, that wasn't for nothing. Several presidents of security regions have also intervened, and that was not for nothing either. The reason why they are not closed is because they are part of the wide food chain, which has been identified as crucial. But, of course, the necessary has happened since we got those signals here. There is the Cooperation Platform for Migrant Workers and COVID-19, which monitors preventively and repressively the slaughterhouses. We haven't seen any cluster outbreaks lately. In this sense, there is no reason to close abattoirs and no generic measure is provided for, but action is taken if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u358	But each time the cabinet does not answer the question of how many samples have been carried out. I understand you're saying you didn't detect any contagion. Yeah, if you don't check in that sector where vulnerable migrant workers work, you're pretty sure something could be going on and people wouldn't dare to report it. I am not satisfied with the answer: we have not seen it. No, you didn't look. And then the cabinet lobbied China to open up the market to Dutch pork, and I am really sorry about that. It is not a crucial sector because otherwise we are starving, but it is just exports. I am curious about the letter on zoonoses, but if you want to keep that machinery of intensive livestock farming going at all costs, there will be problems not only with the corona contamination now, but with zoonoses threats later. I wonder when that quarter's gonna fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u359	I do not have the most up-to-date state of affairs on the situation in slaughterhouses. If Mrs Ouwehand appreciates it, I can see if I can do it for the second term, or if I need a little more time. With regard to the other point made by Mrs Ouwehand, I think the following is important. In the end, we have to abide by the law. That law is there for a reason. It is weighted and also serves several interests. There is an interest in the economy. There is an interest in animal welfare. There are a lot of interests. Last week, in this Chamber, I also said that public health is of the utmost importance. That is why the VWS Ministry takes the lead when there are issues involving, among other things, public health. In zoonoses, VWS takes control. Well, that's important. If those conditions are met, there are laws that we abide by. If things happen within those laws, I'm not gonna change anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u360	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term on the side of the Chamber. I'll find out who needs it. I am going to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to close shops, since they have maintained the cabinet's corona measures well all this time, there is no evidence of a significant proportion of contamination in shops and therefore closure is disproportionate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-802]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u362	If that motion doesn't make it, then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to compensate shops which have to close 100% of the costs through the NOW and TVL as long as they are not allowed to open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber as a matter of urgency the amendment of law which allows a full-time bonus to be granted to an approved motion for a resolution for health care workers, as the absence of sickness due to corona increases to 8% and even 20%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-803]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-804]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u363	Mr. Chairman. Then limit it to two people. Inside, I can imagine, but not outside, given the small chance of infection. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to release the restriction to two persons in the outdoor air, as the risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is very low,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to eliminate as much administrative burden as possible in our nursing homes and disability institutions, as care workers have lost 35% of their time, while the absence of disease due to corona is considerable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-805]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-806]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u364	Mr. Chairman. I have already said in an interrupting debate that the spread of small drops and the total absence of emphasis on ventilation can lead to very unpleasant consequences, including the number of infections, especially in this winter time. However, I would like the Minister of Health to comment on this in his second term. Especially if people have to stay at home, at least give them the advice to do something about ventilation, because a window might not open when it's cold. It's incredibly important. To support that, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to give the express advice to ensure continuous ventilation in indoor spaces, see the research of the Delft University of Technology, because Corona is not able to cope with this and in this way more infections can be prevented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-807]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u365	I'd like to thank the Cabinet for the answer. In the second term, I will receive answers from the Prime Minister about both the local middle class and the discussion that a large part of the Chamber had with the Prime Minister about Schiphol. In support, I'd like to file this motion in advance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is urgent not to travel abroad and not to book trips for the period up to and including mid-March 2021;]] [[noting, however, that the images of crowds at Schiphol Airport show that such urgent advice on joint responsibility has not been spent on everyone;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities for minimising the number of non-necessary flights from Schiphol Airport and, if necessary, to take additional measures to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-808]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u366	I still see the shock there in that field about this great motion by the coalition groups. So that's good. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the comprehensive response and once again understanding and support of my group for these tough measures that are needed, given the high levels of contagion and the possible pressure on care. I am pleased that the cabinet has also outlined the perspective on what we are going to do with vaccines, quick tests and test areas in 2021 to get out of this lockdown in a sensible way. I have two motions. The first one is about schools. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the context of the lockdown, primary education should also be switched to digital education;]] [[Whereas primary education is crucial for a good start-up of children and the emergence of backwardness through digital education should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[Whereas the closure of primary and childcare education raises problems for home-working parents;]] [[calls on the cabinet to assess early January whether primary education and childcare can be physically opened up before 18 January, for example Monday 11 January,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-809]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u367	In addition to the motion that Pieter Heerma just filed a motion from me and colleague Dijkhoff about flying. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an increasing number of European countries make a negative corona test conditional on entry from countries subject to negative travel advice, irrespective of their origin or nationality;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for travellers from risk areas to enter the Netherlands without knowing whether they are carrying the virus;]] [[calls on the Government to make the presentation of a negative corona test conditional as soon as possible on the entry into the Netherlands by residents of the European Economic Area, including the Dutch, if they travel from a country subject to a negative travel advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-810]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u368	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u369	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u370	Mr. Chairman. My group will discuss at the group meeting what to do with Mr Heerma's motion... No, it's excellent, it's great. I am happy to see how the coalition is getting involved in this, because it is really important to take firmer steps. So my compliments on that. Mr. Chairman. I'm very concerned about the chaos at the Foreign Office right now. I have just had a very strong debate with the Prime Minister about the fact that it is impossible to change travel advice and that this is a major danger because it would turn the whole system upside down. And less than ten minutes later, the news that the State Department is turning the whole world to orange. Of course, I'm very happy about that. I think the Foreign Ministry is doing the right thing, but I am curious how the Prime Minister can appreciate this. Seriously, what I was concerned about was the use of the instrument. The travel advice is indeed a way to steer on travel. Orange is a way to do that. The further step on the escalator ladder is red. I would, however, like the Prime Minister to comment on the travel advice as a means of sending it further. The most important part of my contribution was about the schools. I still think it is unwise for primary education to be closed down. That is what we discussed with each other. I would really like to ask the cabinet and the Prime Minister to ask the OMT for an opinion on this and to ask why it is so important to close the primary schools. I really think that's missing. Taking such an important decision to close primary schools with all the consequences for children, without proper advice, is really rude to me. I don't think that's really possible. Therefore, once again my question to come up with a better basis for the OMT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u371	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The measures are far-reaching for many people. We will co-sign a motion by Mr Asscher calling for the aid packages to be adapted accordingly. I think that's the least we can do right now to give people a little more security at this time, at least in terms of income. We must not allow people in that uncertainty to enter the new year. We really think that everything should be put into this. Our second point is our concern about the caregivers. We're going to take firm action now. The emergency brake is being pulled. That has proved inevitable. But we all know that these measures are not going to be effective for a while, and we can see that the pressure on care is actually already untenable. So we know that in the next few weeks, when we're recessed, it's gonna get even higher. There's gonna be more pressure on our caregivers. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the second corona wave care workers feel less supported than in the first wave and the absence of disease is becoming more and more widespread;]] [[declares that we must make every effort to support our caregivers, who are taking care of corona patients and other care, day and night;]] [[calls on the Government to identify as soon as possible with healthcare providers what could now help them and, for example, whether the deployment of Red Cross volunteers and/or Defence staff in support of healthcare providers could relieve them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-811]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has decided to close down childcare and schools;]] [[Whereas this means that children are lagging behind and children with vulnerable backgrounds can be seriously affected;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the current support package for children with additional concrete plans to counter educational disadvantages, keep children fit and healthy, ensure that all children remain in view and support vulnerable children and their parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the lockdown there is considerable damage to the economy, entrepreneurs, self-employed and countless people losing their jobs;]] [[Whereas these new far-reaching measures have not yet been taken into account in the new aid packages;]] [[calls on the government to consider extending the economic aid packages and to inform the House of Representatives before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-812]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Krol and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-813]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u374	Finally, Mr President. We are at the beginning of a very difficult period: the lockdown. We would have liked to have prevented it. In the debate on this with the Prime Minister, he said that sometimes I am too late and sometimes I am too early. I can give you five examples of where the cabinet was late. I would also ask the Prime Minister to give a few examples of where he was too early. If he fails to do so, I would ask him to learn the lessons of what happened now, to ensure that we do not end up in this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u375	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u376	Madam President. I thank the cabinet members for their answers. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment that he will come forward with an overview of the capacity in terms of source and contact research, testing and vaccination, for the debate in January. Thanks for the encouragement to participate in the action A small gesture. Yes, we all can. I hope to do the same myself, so also a warm encouragement on my part. Thank you for the Prime Minister's commitment to look again very closely at the honourable middle class, the shopkeepers who are struggling, versus the blockboxes on which we all have some mixed feelings. Finally. An important element in this debate was the debate on schools. I have debated this with Mr Klaver, among others. We are making a somewhat different assessment in the final sense, because with pain in the heart we do support the measures. At the same time, we both want to avoid learning disadvantages. We have to do what we can to actually prevent that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extended school closure is the most vulnerable to the most vulnerable pupils;]] [[noting that the government made an exception for children in a vulnerable position when closing schools and childcare;]] [[considers that as many children as possible in a vulnerable position should be given the opportunity to receive physical education or care;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with municipalities, to make maximum efforts to reach as many vulnerable families and children as possible in a vulnerable position as possible, together with childcare organisations, schools, social neighbourhood teams and civil society organisations, so that children most in need actually go to school or care;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the application period for laptops and tablets and to monitor whether there is sufficient budget to meet all applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-814]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u377	Mr President, thank you. It is good that the coalition also wants to limit the number of flight movements. In case the Prime Minister says "I can't do all that," I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government does not claim to have any instruments to reduce the number of flight movements outside a flight ban;]] [[calls on the Government to impose a temporary flight ban with the exception of repatriation flights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-815]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u378	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the local bookshop to buy an animal-friendly cookbook for Mr Dijkhoff; I promised. Maybe I'll buy a picture for other colleagues as well. Any requests are welcome. But of course, that's not gonna make it. "The kettle of flute," I hear the Prime Minister say. Well, who knows? I'm gonna do my best. Because we really need to protect the independent local shopkeepers from the unfair competition of what the chairman of the SME Netherlands called "Alibaba and the seven robbers." I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that SMEs who are largely dependent on a physical shop had already been severely affected by the corona measures and are now facing forced temporary closure;]] [[Whereas large internet stores that have benefited greatly from the corona measures now benefit from the lockdown at the expense of local, small retailers, such as bookshops and record stores;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward very soon with a proposal for a solidarity tax for large Internet stores benefiting local or small retailers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Van Dijk Committee urgently advised the government, following the Q-fever epidemic, to apply the precautionary principle in future as regards animal diseases which are also dangerous to humans, the so-called zoonoses;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear in its approach to the Chamber how appropriate legal instruments will be provided to act under the precautionary principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-816]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-817]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u379	Finally, Mr President. If we don't learn from this crisis, we're going to have a lot to do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas measures against corona are fully aimed at combating the virus after the virus has struck hard;]] [[points out that policies should be aimed at preventing crises rather than combating them afterwards;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a press conference on the climate crisis at least once a month from 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-818]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u380	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u381	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u382	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. When I heard Mrs Ouwehand say that she was going to buy a book for Mr Dijkhoff, I thought: it is quite complicated to do it with that local entrepreneur. It would be special if she wanted to buy a bottle of drink for Mr Dijkhoff and that would work. What does that even say? Should we not, as in Berlin, also have an exception for'spirited Tanks', as it is called there? Do we not have too much vision that the basic necessities of life concern the body? People also have a ghost, and that also requires things. Thank you for that inspiring thought, Mrs. Ouwehand, which you gave me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u383	I see Mrs Ouwehand has something to say in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u384	I see warm support from the SGP for making an exception for the sale of animal-friendly cookbooks. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u385	If you have read the regulation correctly, you know that there is already an exception for animal specialties. So I think there's some animal books out there. That is an additional argument to look a little more lightly at the regular bookshops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u386	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u387	I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks have temporarily deferred repayment and interest due to the impact of the coronavirus entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas this temporary delay has often expired, which poses major problems for small and medium-sized enterprises;]] [[calls on the government to remain in consultation with banks to consider whether this second lockdown, in a way that is responsible for the bank and the entrepreneur, can be temporarily delayed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-819]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer and for the commitment. I think they will have much less time in the coming weeks than most of us here, because they are trying to combat the corona virus as effectively as possible. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that until November 2020 the Tax Administration/Applications temporarily did not send any payment reminders and reminders to citizens and businesses to address the major corona crisis;]] [[noting that in letters to citizens and companies, the Tax Administration/Applications states that the cabinet carefully gives more space to society and the economy and that the Tax Administration joins and therefore sends back payment reminders and reminders;]] [[Whereas postponing the sending of payment reminders and reminders would bear witness to human measure and empathy;]] [[Calls on the Government to postpone once again the sending of payment reminders and reminders from the Tax Administration/Applications until the end of the current lockdown, starting on 15 December 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u389	Well, that backup was a little skinny. But just enough. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of the COVID-19 vaccine will lead to a reduction in ic and hospital admissions, but contamination will still take place;]] [[Whereas COOVID-19 may be of an endemic and long-term nature;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a strategy to deal with the long-term presence of the virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-821]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u390	And finally, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that contamination in the home setting is very likely to occur if a person in the household is infected with the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas rapid testing is now also being carried out in asymptomatic people;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the testing of all individuals from the same household for COVID-19, regardless of their symptomatic status, when an infectious person is detected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-822]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u391	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for presiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u392	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk. But I see Mr Jetten first at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u393	Mr President, I apologize. I was just reminded that I did not read the very last version when I tabled the Jetten/Dijkhoff motion. So if I could make a little change to that? Can I do that at the clerk's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u394	Yeah, that's good. You can tell the clerk that now or during the suspension. Then Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas responsibility for home work is now more clearly placed on the employee, but the obligation to care lies with the employer;]] [[Whereas home working should become the norm as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to take the necessary concrete regulatory measures to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-823]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to the message from RTL News and a signal from FNV Winkelstraat that I have just received, that the Wibra will open tomorrow, because they are selling candy and animal food. The rest of the store is covered with plastic. This does not seem to me to fall within the definition of an essential shop. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on that. There was also a response to the Prime Minister's remark that the NOW was settled in two weeks' time. In Haarlem that seems to be at least 12 weeks. People are worried that their case will be bankrupt, so maybe that can be looked at from the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. I would like to finish by thanking all those professionals for their unwavering commitment, because they will soon have to work with Christmas and old and new. I want to thank them, because where would we be without their good care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u397	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u398	Mr. Chairman. The measures taken by the cabinet go so far and the medical and economic collateral damage is so great that there is only one motion in place and that is a motion of censure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the Cabinet has declared a hard lockdown until 19 January 2021;]] [[Whereas this lockdown is disproportionate and the social, cultural, medical and economic collateral damage does not outweigh the possible positive effects of a hard lockdown;]] [[Whereas, because of this lockdown, large groups in society will have to pay a disproportionately high price and this is not the first time that these groups have been affected by the measures taken by this cabinet;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-824]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u399	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u400	Thank you. I shall now turn to Mr Krol. Perhaps in between, Mr. Van Haga and other colleagues. It is customary to vote immediately on a motion of censure, but we are going to vote on Thursday. Then we'll take this motion with us. Is everyone okay with that? Then that's what we'll do. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u401	I think that was also Mr Dijkhoff's motion, which we have almost all supported, so it seems logical to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u402	That was about roll-call votes, but that's okay. We're going to vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u403	Okay. I'm fine with voting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u404	Yeah, that's good. Thank you. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet. Although I do not always agree with the approach in parts, I have great admiration for the commitment of everyone who tries to master this pandemic. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas vitamin D increases resistance and could therefore act as a protection against the corona virus;]] [[calls on the government to call on the population to be tested for a possible vitamin D deficiency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-825]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u406	Madam President. We are on the eve of special Christmas. It's gonna be a Christmas we won't forget. The turn of the year will also be very different than we had hoped. I wish everyone all the best. Let us hope that the moment when we will be able to evaluate the approach, hopefully already next year, approaches very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u407	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who has taken part in the interrogation committee and is now present in the Chamber for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u408	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas clear crisis communication is vital to maintain support for the corona measures in society and is crucial in the fight against the corona virus;]] [[noting that Cabinet information is continuously leaked before the start of press conferences on the corona measures;]] [[Considering that overcrowded shopping streets on Black Friday are identified as one of the causes of rapidly rising contamination rates and increasing pressure on care, leading to a hard lockdown;]] [[noting that the early leak of cabinet information caused a "Black Monday" on the morning of the hard lockdown;]] [[calls on the Government to have the National Criminal Court investigate the leak of cabinet information on the corona policy and to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-826]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u409	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u410	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. 25 motions have been tabled. I'm looking at the Prime Minister. He wants to be consulted. How long do you think it's gonna take? Okay. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 9:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u411	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u412	Mr. Chairman. There were a few questions about timing. First of all, I spoke to Mrs Keijzer for a moment. She's having a talk with the retail sector tomorrow about the issues we've been discussing here. It shall certify the results of the proceedings to the Court. Then there is the expectation of Schengen. The question was whether what can be done outside Schengen could also be done within Schengen: how should this be done? I am not saying when it happens, but mention the letter stating when it happens and what the procedures are for it. I told you, we want that as soon as possible. That's probably possible without a law amendment. That letter from Hugo de Jonge, Ferd Grapperhaus and chief contractor Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, about that process, is expected this week. It may have to go through the cabinet. It won't be till Friday. Otherwise, it'll come sooner. Then there's the conversation with the airlines. That's also about Schiphol, about the hustle and bustle at Schiphol. I will not repeat the word, but we all have what we mean by that very clearly. I can add the travel advice to that, with a little more enthusiasm now that we have seen the reports on Foreign Affairs. There seems to be more possible than I thought. That conversation is scheduled this week, on Wednesdays or Thursdays. It's scheduled now. Then there will also be a report to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In the media, the message that I would have called for to buy from local bookshops will appear. That's true, but it's digital and not physical, because those bookshops are closed. The impression has existed that I said: go to the bookstore. Yeah, digital, but not literally. But the rest of my words stand proud. I'm not going into specific chain stores. I can't do that. However, in general terms, I would say to Mrs Van Brenk that an important exception to closing shops to the public applies to shops in the food sector. They are therefore shops selling food and drink. I mean supermarkets, department stores, butchers, bakeries and shops for fruit and vegetables. Determining is what a store is primarily aimed at. The rule of thumb is: more than 70% turnover. You saw that in the letter from Grapperhaus. It has to be about food. In such a case, non-food may be sold to a limited extent. If it is not mainly food, but there is a large section of food, the rule of thumb is more than 30% of the population, then that function may remain open, but nothing else may be sold. In all other cases there is no food shop and the store cannot open with this exception. This goes into the situation of 15 December, so we are aware that a store has made a few adjustments quickly. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 802 by Mr Wilders, with reference to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 803 by Mr Wilders. I would point out that the package is breathing. We're not compensating for the full hundred percent. Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 805 by Mr Wilders. This necessarily involves the strictest possible package of coherent measures, which significantly reduces contacts. That is why I also advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 808 by Mr Heerma. In short, judge Room. The motion in part No. 809 by Mr Jetten gets judgment Chamber, but with the remark I also mentioned in the debate, namely that it should really be possible. It has to do with old and new whether it is possible, as Mr Asscher suggested, to deviate from the procedures. We're gonna map that out. So I'm not gonna promise anything about this. The effort is to see if it's possible. But let us not now think that primary school will open on 11 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u413	That was the motion in part No. 810. Or was it the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u414	That was the motion in part No. 809. Then we get the motion in part no. 810 by Mr Jetten and Mr Dijkhoff. I already told you the letter about the trial is coming this week. The bet is to do it as soon as possible. I have to say, however, that we cannot logically exclude Dutch people. That's really important. You might want to see if a fine or refusal of airline access is possible. That needs to be worked out. I have already said in reply to Mr Heerma that we expect further information from the three ministers concerned this week. The motion therefore receives a ruling from the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 813. With reference to the debate and the comprehensive package that was discussed last week, this motion has really been discouraged. Of course, we will continue to monitor the case properly. The motion in part No. 815 is about the temporary flight ban. I have already mentioned the importance of aviation for necessary passenger transport, but also for freight transport. This is disproportionate. It is an ultimatum stick behind the door, we have said before, but this motion has been dissuaded. So the motion in part No. 815, temporary flight ban: dissuade. The motion in part No. 816 is about solidarity taxation. With reference to what was discussed in the debate, I would like to advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 818: once a month a press conference on climate change. It's getting tight. So every two weeks, at the request of Mr Krol, we have a press conference by Mr De Jonge and myself, and then every month we have a press conference by Mr Wiebes and me, with perhaps once in a while, when it is very big, a speech from the Tower. I don't think we should. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 818. The motion in part No. 819: Short judgment Chamber. Fortunately, the banks seem to be doing the same. Then the motion to part No. 820 by Mr Azarkan. This is a sympathetic thought. We're gonna figure it out even more, so I'm gonna take a little hit on the arm. But I think it's possible, so judge Room. With a small reservation on the precise possibilities, but roughly judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 823 by Mrs Van Brenn. This is going too far again. There's an urgent advice to work at home. This has also been discussed with social partners. It cannot oblige, but an urgent appeal. Against that background, motion No. 823 dissuade. The motion in part No. 824 does not ask for my judgment. The motion in part No. 826 I would advise against. There's no indication who leaked this. I advise motion no. 826. Mr. Chairman. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u415	Then I'm going to... Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen, are you holding the motion? No discussion of the motions, because no one has intervened on any motion. Unless you're holding her or moving in? Well, let's go. It's okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u416	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u417	After all, you have been the least interrupting this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u418	Exactly. I hear the Prime Minister saying it's not clear who leaked. That's the problem. That should be investigated. I understand that there has been an internal investigation, but that has not worked. That's why I'm asking the government to launch an independent investigation into the leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u419	I'm against that, Mr. Chairman. I find that disproportionate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u420	Mrs. Van Kooten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u421	With all due respect, all measures will be leaked before there are press conferences. That's standard. Everything's on the street before the Chamber is informed. Everything is already on the streets before the citizens are properly informed in this crisis. This undermines policy, which undermines citizens' confidence in politics and undermines the Parliament's information position. So I'm asking the Prime Minister to ask the National Police to initiate an independent investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u422	I read it. I understand very well the annoyance about the leak. In this respect, I fully agree with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. There's no discussion about that. But we are not talking here about the annoyance of the leak and about the fact that leaks are sometimes really harmful, not only for politics but also for society. Leaks shouldn't be allowed to happen. But I don't think a detective investigation is appropriate here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u423	Okay, then we'll go to the U.S. Secretary. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u424	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the motion in part No. 806. It calls on the government to eliminate as much administrative burden as possible in our nursing homes and disabled institutions. I would like to point out that a motion for a resolution has already been adopted in the note consultation on long-term care in order to make the removal of the administrative burden that has been put into effect during the corona crisis structural. In addition, the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg is, of course, committed to a structural reduction in administrative burdens. Nevertheless, in that context, I could leave the judgment to the Chamber. Well, I thought that was agile and not much ideological either. That seems to be good in the market these days. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 807. Mr Wilders is constantly calling for attention to ventilation. That's real policy support. So I would also like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 814. That is a motion by Mr Segers. He's asking the Cabinet to do two things. First of all, it calls for consultation with municipalities to do everything in their power to help vulnerable children. That part of the operative part I'd like to leave to your discretion. The second part of the operative part asks to extend the application period for laptops and tablets and to monitor whether there is sufficient budget. I suspect there could be a budgetary consequence of that. That is why I would ask Mr Segers to accept that I suspend the cabinet's judgment, because I am going to ask Mr Slob if he will take it in writing. The ruling of the cabinet follows prior to the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u425	That's Thursday. We're going to vote next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u426	That's a rap note for colleague Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u427	I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u428	In the Azarkan motion in part No. 821 is asked to develop a strategy in case the virus becomes endemic and long-term. I actually want to focus on getting the virus out of the country and out of the world first. So let's put all the effort into that first. If that does not work, we will indeed have to prepare for a more prolonged presence of this nasty virus, but at least I am going to discourage this motion. The Azarkan motion in part No. 822 calls on the government to promote the testing of all individuals from the same household for COVID-19, regardless of their symptomatic status. It's already happening. We just do that, namely since 1 December, because those people from the same household come out from source and contact research and from the app. That is why this motion is really superfluous. I advise against this motion. Then there's the motion in part No. 812. Excuse me, I skipped it. It belongs to Mr Asscher and a large number of other signatories. It invites the government to provide the current support package for children with additional concrete plans to counter educational disadvantages. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I would like to say that we are already doing an incredible amount of work to help vulnerable children, even with a great deal of additional budgetary resources. Nevertheless, I leave the judgment to the Chamber, because we are happy to get to work on it. Then there was D66's question as to whether the evacuation from the asylum shelter of the COA could be suspended. The corona crisis and also the second wave have no suspensive effect on asylum procedures, so that cannot be promised. You must also have the debate with Mr Broekers-Knol, I think. But we can't just suspend the proceedings because of having a second wave. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u429	A brief question from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u430	In the first lockdown, the COA applied a coulance scheme. So people weren't thrown out during that lockdown. It would be very strange to do so during a lockdown in the winter. There is no longer a debate with Secretary of State Broekers-Knol. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he would still like to discuss this with her. It would be bad if we were to provide shelter for homeless people in the cities, but in the meantime put people on the street at the COA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u431	It's complicated to me anyway. Perhaps it would be a good idea if I asked Mr Broekers-Knol to come back to this in writing. If asylum seekers are rejected, they no longer have the right to receive asylum. If they cooperate on departure, they'll be transferred to a departure location. In the extreme case, they can be taken into custody. However, it seems complicated to me to suspend the expulsion of rejected asylum seekers in general. I don't think that's a good idea. Nevertheless, I will ask Mr Broekers-Knol whether she will come back to this in writing in the direction of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u432	Thank you. We'll wait a little longer. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u433	Thank you, Mr President. I've got four motions. There is a motion by Mr Wilders on a legislative amendment to the full-time bonus. I indicated in general consultation on 12 November that I would submit this to the Human Rights College and indeed consider a legislative amendment afterwards. I agree with him that it is important to reduce absenteeism. So I'd like to ask him to hold the motion until I get the response of the Human Rights College.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u434	Mr. Wilders, it's the motion in part no. 804, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u435	That's good, Mr. Chairman, as long as it doesn't last forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u436	At the request of Mr Wilders, I propose his motion (25295, No. 804). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u437	The Marijnissen motion in part No. 811 expresses its commitment to support care and calls on the government to carry out an inventory. We are already talking on many fronts, including with the Red Cross and Defence, whose capacity of course is not infinite either, about medical support. But I read this motion in such a way that the Chamber wishes to pronounce that it would like to support the people in the care. I'm sure I'd like to do that inventory. With that, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 817 is about the legal instruments. The precautionary principle is already part of the Animal Health and Welfare Act, so there is already a legal toolbox. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u438	Okay. I'm gonna wait a little longer, because I think you've got some more motions. Or was this the only one? No? Brief question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u439	But we have seen in the mink situation that the law used does not provide the basis for action on the basis of the precautionary principle. I'm warning the Cabinet, make sure that's in order. I think that's a simple question. If it's in order enough, we'd love to hear it, but we haven't seen that in the mink situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u440	Of course, I cannot give a very comprehensive treatise on this animal health and welfare law. Here is a motion on the precautionary principle. There are, of course, a number of possibilities for the public authorities, but also a number of guarantees that we have to meet. That led me to the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u441	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u442	The Krol motion is about testing for vitamin D deficiency. We all see the importance of sufficient vitamins for health. I want to stress that everyone needs to get enough vitamins. That should be well-known knowledge. Mass testing for vitamin D deficiency doesn't make any sense to me. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u443	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u444	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Thursday. I would like to thank the MPs, the Prime Minister, the Minister of the United States and the Minister for Medical Care, but above all the messengers, the stenography service, but also our gesture interpreters, who have really translated and interpreted this whole debate. Thank you very much.
