ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u1	The issue now is the examination of legislative proposal 35210-VI, Amendment of the budget statements of the Ministry of Justice and Security for the year 2019 (change related to the Spring Note). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to the First Chamber. It is special to welcome you here as former President. I inform Members that, in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then put it on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Nanninga. I understand Mrs. Nanninga has waived her term. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to welcome Mrs Broekers-Knol to the First Chamber, this time for the first time as Secretary of State in a plenary debate, here in the beautiful Knight's Room. Welcome! Nice to see you again. I would also like to express my thanks to Mr Sietse Fritsma, who has been working hard in the Lower House as spokesman for Immigration and Asylum for the PVV since 2006 until last year to combat mass immigration. Thank you for the wonderful cooperation on this portfolio. I would therefore also like to start by quoting briefly Mr Fritsma. In 2007 he published a booklet with the unfortunately still current title The immigration disaster of the Netherlands. Fritsma states, and I quote: "Private organisations dealing with migrants, such as the Netherlands Refugee Service, should also be examined more critically than has been the case so far. Few people know, for example, that this foundation is largely dedicated to foreigners other than refugees and asylum seekers. In this way, we are helping massively people who want to settle here in the context of family formation and reunification. Even criminal migrants who rightly threaten to be expelled are frequently helped. The name RefugeeWork The Netherlands is therefore downright misleading. The name AliensWork would be more appropriate for this foundation, because people really help anyone who wants to get or keep a Dutch residence permit." End of quote. And that brings me to the actuality of today's bill. RefugeeWork The Netherlands receives a grant of around €10 million per year from the Ministry of Security and Justice in this context. To the questions put by the PVV on the proposal before us, the Secretary of State replied as follows, and I quote: "In the context of the improved asylum procedure, it is stipulated that Refugee Work will provide the Netherlands with the first information on the asylum procedure. They are often the first to see asylum seekers. They are also seen as an independent organisation as a more neutral party." End of quote. What do you mean, a more neutral party? How does this neutral nature relate to the fanatical asylum activism that refugees work at the same time towards the same Secretary of State? Currently, RefugeeWork Netherlands is co-organising an action network to bring so-called refugee children from Greece to the Netherlands. I quote the pamphlet on the Homepage of RefugeeWork: "Massal call to cabinet for reception refugee children from Greece. More than 100 (former) politicians, aid organisations, scientists, doctors, representatives of churches and mosques, municipalities and prominent people together call on the cabinet to evacuate single children from the Greek refugee camps. Never before has the call for shelter of single refugee children in the Netherlands been so great." End of quote. Part of the lobby is to pressure city council members with moral blackmail to support motions to bring so-called single children to the Netherlands. Initially, only orphans were mentioned in a letter of fire, but the group has already expanded. Often these children have been sent to Greece as a forward mail. Once they are accepted as asylum seekers in the EU, they are entitled to family life through Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and are still coming to families in this direction. For example, the asylum industry, in which asylum activists and foreign lawyers are driven by the Refugee Work grant factory. And that's where the cabinet keeps pumping millions every year. In his pamphlet, RefugeeWerk Nederland goes even further. I quote: "Unacceptable refusal. Germany, Luxembourg, France, Portugal, Ireland, Finland, Croatia, Lithuania, Belgium, Norway and Bulgaria take responsibility for a total of 1,600 children and respond to Greece's distress call to create a safe escape for 2,500 refugee children. Leaders of the RefugeeWork coalition The Netherlands, Stichting Vluchteling and Defence for Children urge the cabinet to follow the example of the other EU Member States. Time is running out and the situation is urgent, as stated in the joint statement published on Thursday. "It is unacceptable for the Secretary of State to insist that the solution lies in Greece. The Netherlands, show solidarity with Greece and countries such as Germany and Luxembourg which already receive some of the children." End of quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u4	I would like to object to the words of Mr Van Hattem. Refugee Work does good work for refugees. It's not alien work. They are doing work that we have legally agreed with all of us that they would do. Then what you just said about the call. The only thing that Refugee Work asks, together with other organisations that is a very legitimate question is to respond to the request made by Greece, because there the camps are overcrowded with refugees, to let some of the procedural work that has to be done be taken over by the Netherlands. That is quite different from what Mr Van Hattem is saying. I just want to say that for a moment, including for the Acts. Refugee Work is refugee work. It's not a foreigner's job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u5	I note something quite different from what Mrs Vos says. RefugeeWork The Netherlands is indeed working, as a driver of an action network, to bring so-called refugee children, single refugee children, to the Netherlands. We see that in all the municipal councils of the Netherlands motions are submitted, among others by the Labour Party, to bring these children to Dutch municipalities and to press the State Secretary to do so. RefugeeWork The Netherlands itself has a pamphlet on its website to do so. That's just activism. That has nothing to do with the implementation of public service obligations. It is activism and meanwhile the same government, the same state government, continues to feed the hand of Refugee Work to make this activism possible, because that is part of their activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u6	This isn't activism. That is simply the implementation of the Refugee Convention that we all signed in the 1950s. There was a reason for that. I would also like Mr Van Hattem to take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u7	Then I would like Mrs Vos to take note that in all these municipal councils she knows well, I think such motions are being tabled in order to make this possible. I'm on the city council myself, and I've faced such a motion. They demanded, among other things by the PvdA, that these municipalities should press the Secretary of State to take those children in. And this pamphlet is literally on the website of Refugee Work. You can say that it is not, but this has nothing to do with the Refugee Convention. This is just activism. This has nothing to do with the tasks that should be done in the context of asylum policy. RefugeeWork is an activist organisation, by distributing pamphlets of this kind and by allowing left-wing parties to adopt these kinds of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u8	Mrs. Fox, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u9	As long as there is an international legal order and as long as we have signed the Refugee Convention, it is not activism. Then this is just doing what we all agreed and I am glad that a large majority in the Netherlands still thinks this is very reasonable and supports this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u10	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u11	Then I have to say that the PvdA is dealing here with state activism, even worse. Mr. Chairman. It is to be commended that the Secretary of State has not given in to this terrible rage. We urge her not to give in to this either. In the meantime, RefugeesWork has announced that there is an unacceptable refusal by this Secretary of State, the same organisation which it defines as an independent organisation and a more neutral party. Can the Secretary of State explain what is neutral about the activist practices of RefugeeWork Netherlands? Would it not be much more purer to have these tasks carried out by the government itself or at least by organisations which do not also deal with asylum activism? Is the Secretary of State prepared to stop all subsidies to Refugee Work? Please respond to these points. Besides that. In our written questions we have asked for copies of all grant applications, grant decisions and possible rejections of Refugee Work Netherlands over the past ten years. The Secretary of State has only provided a table of amounts, i.e. again the request to provide the underlying documents. It would be even better if we were completely rid of these asylum reception tasks. To this end, the Secretary of State could now take an historic step. By closing borders by other countries because of the corona measures, the asylum influx has now almost completely dried up. With 270 asylum migrants in April the lowest number in at least 20 years. That is why there is now a unique opportunity to prevent the influx of asylum from rising again. It is now no longer mop with the crane open, as Pim Fortuyn once called it striking, but the moment to review the existing, failing asylum system. As far as PVV is concerned, our borders are closed to asylum seekers and there can only be reception in their own region. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take that historic step now? In any case, the measures contained in the legislative proposal before us must be put to an end. Investing a total of EUR 238.7 million in superluxury, new or renovated asylum shelters is insane. This will only facilitate a re-emergence of asylum influx. With such generous facilities there is also a sucking effect, especially when you see how luxury becomes the new reception locations. In the Frisian Burgum buildings of twenty years old were apparently not good enough anymore and now over 27,5 million euros of large, luxurious, modern new buildings are being built as asylum seekers' centers. Houses for which many Dutch citizens are never eligible. In the reply, the Secretary of State states that the COA will make temporary use of this and that they will then go to a corporation as a residential area or be placed on the market as job homes. Can the Secretary of State indicate in concrete terms how long "temporary" is? What's the outer term? Can the Secretary of State rule out that, if it becomes corporation homes, they serve one-on-one for the housing of status holders? What do you mean "job homes"? Is the Secretary of State expecting these brand new homes to be fully used after temporary use? Are there any such violent asylum seekers being received in Burgum as the group that attacked the police in 2017 when they were evicted? The footage is still on Dumpert. Is that the point? I'd like a response. But the most important thing is the signal that comes from this: come to the Netherlands as a lucky seeker. There you will immediately be caught in a brand new luxury home. Not only in Burgum, but also in the azc in Luttelgeest in the Noordoostpolder. Royale, new two barbers as azc. But that is not yet luxurious enough, because GroenLinks in the Noordoostpolder felt it necessary to make a motion for even better internet in the azc and to bring this to the attention of all Dutch municipalities with an asylum centre. Can we assume, I ask the Secretary of State, that she will not cooperate in this asylum pampering? I'd like a response. Of all the asylum site projects included in this legislative proposal, the azc in Gilze is the crown in terms of cost: almost 43 million euros for one of the well-equipped asylum resorts in the beautiful Brabant forests. That's a sloppy €55,000 per asylum seeker to house. And at the asylum shelter Maastricht, the renovation of which is already in progress, more than 33 million euros of underfloor heating, beautiful views and recreational spaces are being built, so that, as they say, this becomes one of the best asylum centres in the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State explain to the elderly of the Netherlands that the nursing homes are closed but such asylum havens are rigged for hundreds of millions? Following on from our PVV municipal council in Maastricht, I call on the Secretary of State to set up this building not for asylum seekers, but for care, for our elderly and needy. The same goes for the asylum palace in Gilze and all the other luxurious locations. Is the Secretary of State prepared not to give these buildings and houses to foreigners, but to make them available to our Dutch citizens? I'd like a response. In addition, is the Secretary of State prepared to stop all these new and renovated asylum sites anyway, in order not to encourage the facilitation of an increasing asylum influx? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. If we can stop the asylum influx, then we do not need a flexible asylum reception capacity programme, as is currently being rolled out within the framework of the inter-administrative programme. But for the time being, the cabinet has plans to organise provincial director tables under the direction of the Commissioners of the King to discuss possibilities for reception locations with the province and municipality. The local representatives, let alone the citizens, have no vision or control over these intergovernmental backrooms. Sooner or later they are confronted with the fact that an azc comes into their environment, which is not escaped, because the municipality must then "take responsibility." Can the Secretary of State state state whether it intends to pass this local democracy and its citizens in this way? If not, what can we expect in this respect? Is the Secretary of State prepared to make all the reports of these provincial director tables public? Please respond to these points. In addition, I would ask the Secretary of State to at least send the content of the interview reports of the director's tables, which she has promised, in reply to our questions to this bill. In many places in the country we see where such "taking responsibility" by drivers leads. On 13 May last, the NRC reported, on the basis of documents from the JenV Ministry, that the number of reported incidents in azc's has doubled over the past five years, from over 8,000 to 17,000 last year: swearing, fighting, starving tasks, burning et cetera, et cetera. Also Omroep Brabant wrote, on 19 May last: "Another incident in asylum seekers' centres in Brabant: Budel spans the crown." Almost 2,500 incidents last year in the Brabant azc's, such as stabbing and fighting and aggression towards personnel. Should EUR 238.7 million of taxpayers' money be used to collect such asylum equipment in order to build luxury reception centres? Isn't that pure asylum madness? Should "responsibility" be taken for such asylum criminals? Also in the village of Heesch the local directors thought to take responsibility by instead of building a new azc to provide extra many status holders with a home. In this context, last January, a 25-year-old Sudanese asylum seeker got his own house in this village. Before that he stayed in an azc in Heerlen, where he was arrested twice by the police: for causing nuisance and for an assault. He would also have had psychological problems. In April, this Sudanese status holder randomly stabbed the 18-year-old cyclist Rik van de Rakt from Heesch to death in Oss. A boy who was unsuspectingly on his way to work at the nursing home. The flowers are still along the road in Oss. The Sudanese status holder, who had also tried to attack a woman on the bike, was then arrested with a bloody knife at the station in Oss. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it is possible that an asylum seeker who has been arrested twice by the police in an azc, including for a serious offence such as assault, still gets a residence status and a residence? If the Secretary of State cannot comment on the specific case: how can something like this in general, that if someone behaves so badly in an azc, he is not deported, but gets all the facilities? Are municipalities where status holders are placed with such backgrounds not informed about this? I would like a response from the Secretary of State on these points. Finally, Mr President. I await the answer of the Secretary of State and, on the basis of this, consider tabling a number of motions in the second term. The main message of the PVV in this legislative proposal is and remains: stop the asylum madness and the construction of azc's and close the borders. Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u12	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, will you be able to answer directly? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u13	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You probably won't be surprised that I find it special to be here before you today, for the first time since I haven't been behind the rostrum myself. It's an honor and a pleasure to meet you, and besides, in this beautiful Knight's Room. But I do, as you will understand, have a little nostalgia for the House of First Chamber. Thank you to Mr Van Hattem for giving me this opportunity today! The reason for this debate is the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security of 2019. I would first like to make a brief comment on the process of answering the questions. That didn't go quite well. Your Chamber has had to wait too long for the further reply. That is because too much has been sent back and forth between the various parts of my ministry. I sincerely apologize for that. I have another comment, which relates to the overview of the grants received by the Netherlands for RefugeesWork. The statement for the year 2014 does not necessarily include an excessive amount of subsidy. The amount of funding allocated to Refugee Work Netherlands in 2014 should be: €6.360.074, instead of €7.149.000. That's because there's been an addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u15	I have a question on the first point of the Secretary of State. How does the fact that the Spring Note has not been adopted here yet relate to the fact that you have already submitted the Final Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u16	The Final Act has been tabled because we can hope that one and the other can join together at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u17	I think that's a bit of a weird thing to do. You have apologized, but I think it would be a good thing if we were to get a commitment here that it will be better from now on and that we will not have to wait so long. I also hope with you that it will be accepted now, because this is a very strange figure, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u18	Mrs Karimi is right, and I can assure her that I find it incredibly important that the documents be delivered to your Chamber on time. This also applies to questions and pleadings of answers, and it also applies to the House of Representatives. But it keeps pushing hard every time. There is often a lot on our plate. But there's a lot of work going on to make sure that everything comes within the deadlines. Thank you again for Mrs Karimi's encouragement, which I am taking with me again. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem focused in the first instance on the Refugee Work Foundation. Perhaps it is interesting for Mr. Van Hattem to learn that the Refugee Work Foundation was founded almost 41 years ago by the government itself. RefugeeWork The Netherlands receives a grant from the Ministry of Justice and Security for the best possible preparation and supervision of asylum seekers during the asylum procedure. This is done, among other things, by providing information, answering asylum seekers' questions about the asylum procedure and putting the necessary documents in order in the asylum procedure. RefugeesWork thus contributes to the efficient conduct of the asylum procedure. This was decided a few years ago because it all went into bits and pieces of different organizations. That wasn't efficient. The Netherlands is accountable to the Ministry for the implementation of these activities. In addition, the Netherlands is carrying out other activities with its own resources. That's on Refugee Work. RefugeeWork receives, in particular, support for the provision of information. This involves giving more information about legal aid, how asylum seekers can prepare themselves, the rights and obligations they have, etc. before the asylum procedure. This is aligned with the chain partners: the IND, the COA, the DT&V, but also the AVIM, the foreign police, etc. RefugeeWork also supports people in obtaining relevant documents, in particular ID certificates. The fact that asylum seekers are well informed and know what to expect will remove unrest among the people. RefugeeWork The Netherlands is also a legal intermediary at COA locations, for example between the IND and the lawyer, or a guardian when it comes to a minor. They're all volunteers, but these volunteers need training. For the training of volunteers and information activities, RefugeeWork receives a subsidy from the Netherlands. RefugeeWork The Netherlands also receives funding for the interpreters needed, because the volunteers of RefugeeWork The Netherlands must be able to communicate with the asylum seekers. It takes interpreters to do that. So I have talked about the support functions and the interpreters. That is the position of RefugeeWork Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem has asked for the cessation of all activities of Refugee Work The Netherlands. That is not sensible and not efficient, because, as I have just said, Refugeework in the Netherlands is precisely the one who ensures that the asylum procedure can go well for asylum seekers at first, because they are well informed and supported. Can the government do the work of RefugeeWork Netherlands itself? RefugeeWork The Netherlands has a large number of volunteers. I would like to say that it is very special that these people do that work voluntarily. They're being trained, like I said. So the government couldn't do that one-two-three itself. For this, a huge organisation should be set up compared to RefugeeWork Netherlands, and not even with volunteers anymore. So that's not something you can just pull off. Mr Van Hattem's question was also to provide the underlying documents relating to the grant. Unfortunately, I have to say that we do not. The amounts for subsidies over the years have been mentioned, but we cannot provide the underlying documents because they contain information that we say is private, or at least sensitive. Then I come to Mr Van Hattem's question as to whether the Dutch borders can be closed to asylum seekers. Is the Netherlands prepared to take that step? That is difficult, because the Netherlands does not want to take that step and cannot take that step. But the most important thing is that the Netherlands does not want to take that step, because the Netherlands always wants to be available as a airport of refuge for refugees fleeing war and violence. The Netherlands has signed the 1951 Convention on Refugees and not only that: it has also ratified it. The Netherlands has also signed the European Convention on Human Rights. In this way it is bound to receive asylum seekers and does so, because it is important to do so. The Netherlands is therefore not prepared to take that step. We are prepared to ensure that those who do not have the right to asylum know as soon as possible that there is no right to asylum, so that people soon know where they stand and those who do not have the right to asylum know that they have to go home or seek refuge elsewhere. Then I come to Mr Van Hattem's question about the luxury shelter. Burgum was called "luxury." The question is: how long is temporary for Burgum? The agreed governance agreement on the new location in Burgum applies for fifteen years. That period may be extended in consultation with the municipality. In this case, the management agreement is agreed for a long time, i.e. 15 years, for the purpose of operating costs. If you do it very briefly, it is relatively expensive. Fifteen years is a good time in terms of exploitation. Of course, it is always possible to discuss with the municipality how things are poured into the barrel. But 15 years in Burgum is temporary. Mr Van Hattem also asked: what do you mean "job homes"? After these fifteen years, it is intended that it could enter the municipal housing stock. Mr Van Hattem has rightly pointed that out. Then it may be that those who then engage those homes, set up those homes to their own wishes, renovate and so on. That's what "job homes" mean. I would also like to point out that the houses are sober. I can imagine that after those 15 years someone might want to add more luxury to the housing as a citizen of Burgum, hence also the job homes. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the internet. Mr Van Hattem mentioned Luttelgeest and he mentioned that wifi is being built in the Noordoostpolder. He asked if that wasn't "asylum pampering." In connection with corona, distance education had to be provided. We all know that. This also means that there must be a good Wi-Fi system, because without Wi-Fi, distance education will not work. It was necessary to provide for that. In addition, this Wi-Fi makes for less nuisance. Because if there is no Wi-Fi and there is no possibility of using it, then our experience is that one goes outside and goes to a café or elsewhere to seek his salvation. That could be a nuisance. So it is not an asylum pampering; it is fulfilling the compulsory part and also the necessity, because we believe that in this way we can keep the nuisance as much as possible under control. Then I come to the underfloor heating in Maastricht. Mr Van Hattem asked if I could explain what that was about: 33 million was spent on renovation or new construction in Maastricht, including underfloor heating. I think Mr Van Hattem also knows that with the current sustainability requirements floor heating and heating can be built in a cheaper, sustainable way than when you have an old-fashioned heating. It is therefore cheaper and more sustainable than a luxury supply. Mr Van Hattem also raised the question of whether we should make this available to citizens, for example, because it could be provided for care, and there are people who need that kind of housing. I agree with Mr Van Hattem that it is important that there are enough homes in the care of older people and at all for Dutch citizens. It is poignant to see that there is a shortage of it. We all know that, but at the same time, the members of your Chamber know that the Netherlands has to comply with European legal obligations to provide reception for asylum seekers. So we have our European legal obligation. That is why we are ensuring that there are decent reception facilities for those who need the shelter. The example of Burgum is a wonderful example: after fifteen years it can be included in the municipal housing stock. Another question from Mr Van Hattem was about the direction tables. In particular, he asked whether the interview reports of the director's tables could be made public. Conversation reports refer to documents that are subject to internal reflection. Under Article 68 of the Constitution, the standing policy, cabinet policy, is that such documents are not part of the debate with the Chamber. Information requested by members of the Chamber shall normally be provided by letter or note, reflecting the content of the underlying documents in objective form. In this way, the information contained in reports, for example, is shared with the Chamber without the content being traceable to individual persons. I would therefore like to give a commitment to Mr Van Hattem to provide the information requested by Mr Van Hattem by means of an objective presentation of the content of those interview reports. At a director's table members will be updated on the expected asylum flow and discuss possibilities to allow status holders to flow out of the COA shelter more quickly through cooperation between them in the region. It also examines the possibility of setting up new COA locations or extending existing administrative agreements. That's what the director's tables are for. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the incidents. When presenting the incident report, I reported where we stand with the nuisance approach. Much has been invested in this approach over the past period, but we are not yet there; I am aware of that. A lot of measures have been taken. I'll mention a few. Chain Marines have been appointed, currently three, but a fourth will soon be appointed. They are working throughout the country to use all possible measures together with the chain partners, such as IND, COA, DT&V, municipalities, police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. But in particular, the approach of the Top X list is something that the chain sailors are working on to contain the nuisance as best they can and to put criminal asylum seekers on the skin. In addition, in February 2020 I opened the enforcement and monitoring site, the Htl, for troublesome asylum seekers in Hoogeveen. The most notorious cases can be placed there. There is also work on austere reception for safe-lords, whose asylum application is dismissed in track 2, and Dublin claims, whose asylum application is dismissed in track 1. In addition, a budget of EUR 1 million will be available to finance local measures. For example, if a municipality wants cameras in certain places that cannot be provided from the municipal budget, then the chain marine can spend it in consultation with municipalities, retailers or possibly private individuals. But these measures need time to be effective. We are gradually seeing this effect, especially through the very good cooperation between the chain partners; I think that is good to emphasise. Like I said, these are municipalities, IND, COA, DT&V, police and the state's attorney's office. This close cooperation will enable the measures to be effective and we will also get reports back from municipalities like Harderwijk................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then there is Mr Van Hattem's question as to how it is possible for asylum seekers to obtain a status, despite abuses in azc's. We're very keen on that. If we can, we'll withdraw the license. If the IND finds that it can be withdrawn on the basis of the legal rules, including case law, it will be withdrawn. During the discussion of the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security 2020 on 21 November 2019, Ms Becker of the VVD asked me to identify possible legal obstacles to withdrawal. I promised a letter at the time. I expect to be able to send her this letter in the near future. You can also expect a copy of this. If the IND finds, on the basis of law and case law, that the authorisation may be revoked, it shall be revoked. And matters relating to public order issues are always a priority for licences that are withdrawn, so they are on top of the pile. This is how we deal with this problem. I believe that there was another question as to whether I could undertake not to circumvent local democracy by means of administrative consultation at the national board of directors or the regional board of directors. I can say to Mr Van Hattem that he can rest assured that there is no back room policy and that local decision-making is not being bypassed. In the end, it is the municipality that decides through the usual decision-making processes whether or not there will be a reception location. But the direction table can show that and ask if there are any possibilities. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Secretary of State. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the Secretary of State for the first-term response. The Secretary of State states that the Refugee Work Foundation has focused precisely on the efficiency of the asylum procedure, and that they are acting with their own resources. Those are the means that are collected through the Lottery Postal Code, which Dutch citizens often unknowingly also pay for that activism. But such substances often mix. We see the same thing, for example, with provincial environmental federations: they are also set up to make the process of objection and appeal more efficient. But in the meantime, such organizations are still working to initiate processes against the government and thereby hinder the government, for example in the construction of roads etcetera, etcetera, with all kinds of consequences; in the area of nitrogen, for example. That is a different discussion than it is now, but it is the same principle. And I have to say that if the government chooses to use the Refugee Work Foundation, it also immediately chooses to set up a foundation that is also undermining that asylum policy, by calling for more asylum seekers to be brought to the Netherlands, by further shaping the process. And the volunteers that are being trained can now also be active as an activist for Refugee Work. It's an organization engaged in asylum activism. That is why I am now tabling a motion in the second term to put an end to these grants for Refugee Work. I'll read the motion now, Mr. Chairman. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Bezaan and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas refugee labour in the Netherlands cannot be regarded as a neutral party in the implementation of asylum policy by self-involvement of asylum activism towards the cabinet;]] [[calls on the Government to stop using refugee work in the Netherlands to implement or support asylum policy and to stop all subsidies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-VI-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the following point: nuisance on azc's. The Secretary of State referred to the use of chain marines. I myself am getting signals that despite these measures, the nuisance is constantly rising again and again. For example, I get these signals from Budel, where a large azc is located. This has been a nuisance for a long time, especially in the village of Maarheeze, which is nearby. I ask the Secretary of State why someone who is supposedly coming to the Netherlands for his safety and is being taken care of here is still receiving shelter here if he causes nuisance and is going to make things unsafe here. Why isn't there a much stricter commitment to stop providing shelter to those people and to expel them from the country? That's a reverse world, isn't it? So stop granting asylum status to those people. The Secretary of State says: if we can, we will do everything we can to withdraw the permit. I quoted the example of the Sudanese that was established in Heesch. After his misbehaviour in an azc he still got a residence status, he still got a home. He committed the crime as an asylum seeker, so not as a status holder, in an azc. How is it possible that someone who commits such serious offences is still getting a serious offence if they still have asylum status? That is a very different factor from the withdrawal of licences. I would also like to make it clear that it is not. I had also asked in the first period whether municipalities would be informed about the background of a status holder who is housed in a municipality. Think, for example, of such abuses in an azc or of a serious mental state. Are municipalities aware of this? How is that communicated? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to another motion. The Secretary of State says that we will continue to open our borders to asylum seekers. I am therefore obliged to table the next motion for a resolution on the prevention of a new influx of asylum. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Bezaan and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many other countries have now closed the borders, the asylum influx has almost dried up;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that the asylum influx should increase again;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the asylum influx does not rise again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-VI-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u22	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the publication of the reports from the director's tables. The Secretary of State says this is about internal reflection. But we must bear in mind that we are not talking about civil servants here for a sec. We are talking about administrative management tables, where provincial leaders and aldermen sit at the table, which must be controlled by local authorities, by the provincial authorities. There's got to be a way to see what's being discussed there. That control is essential. That is why I come to the next motion for a resolution on the publication of reports from provincial control tables on asylum reception. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Bezaan and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for good democratic control by representatives of the people and citizens to be able to take note of the reports of the provincial asylum desks;]] [[calls on the Government to make public the reports of the provincial control tables on asylum reception,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-VI-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u23	I would also like to point out that it would be very good to work actively on this, also under the Open Government Act, which is still coming. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my last motion, on the luxury facilities, the asylum palaces with underfloor heating that are being rigged. We've talked about that extensively. The Secretary of State is now acting as if it is quite natural and cheap, but its construction costs are enormous. Many Dutch citizens can really not afford floor heating in their existing home. The motion I'm about to file is titled: not azc's, but nursing homes and homes. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Bezaan and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cabinet is currently investing heavily in luxury asylum reception facilities to be built or renovated;]] [[calls on the government not to use these locations for asylum seekers, but as care homes for our elderly and needy and/or as homes for our Dutch citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35210-VI-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u24	Mr President, I will come to the end of my second term. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his second reply. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I'll see if the Secretary of State has an opportunity to answer directly. No, she needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u26	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I'm asking for some rest in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr Van Hattem for pinning the cabinet and me on the motions to take certain steps in the asylum domain. I shall begin with Mr Van Hattem's first motion, with the request to stop all subsidies to Refugee Work in the Netherlands; I shall be very brief. I believe that in my first term I have argued how useful and efficient the work of Refugee Work Netherlands is in the asylum procedure. We would like to continue to use this. RefugeesWork The Netherlands does a lot of work for us, in the information and asylum process, by ensuring that interpreters are present, allowing people to follow the information, and by training the many volunteers who do the work. We do not want to stop the subsidy they receive, which last year amounted to something like 10 million tonnes. For the rest, Mr Van Hattem is quite right in saying that the Netherlands is receiving money from the Postal Code lottery and from private subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u28	It's a little interruption, though. The Secretary of State continues to adhere to RefugeeWork Netherlands as an implementing organisation for this policy. Suppose, however, that there will be another organization, which can set up the same policy for the government under exactly the same conditions. Is it then an eternal self-evident that Refugee Work Netherlands is the only organisation that can carry this out? In any case, is there a level playing field? Some municipalities in the Netherlands have put aside a certain policy in the field of the integration of status holders Refugee Work Netherlands because other organisations could come up with a much better offer. Why would you keep pinning yourself on one and the same organization as the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u29	It's not my habit to answer some questions, because that's dangerous. I'm not gonna do that now. Mr Van Hattem's question as to whether it is an eternal self-evident that Refugee Work Netherlands is implementing this policy: Refugee Work The Netherlands is doing good work for the asylum procedure in the Netherlands. However, I cannot imagine that there is no other organisation about 50, 80 or 100, for example. It could all be, but I have already said in the first place that Refugee Work Netherlands has been established by the government in order to be able to provide this support in the asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u30	Apparently it's been the case for 40 years. It's not forever, but it's already a step in that direction. Is it not possible to make an evaluation of this policy once in a while? Speaking of the grant applications and the grant decisions, which the Secretary of State says she can't give because they contain sensitive information, if it's all so perfectly in order, then what is the sensitivity? Why can't we just get that data? If it is such a perfectly functioning organisation, then we can also receive all the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u31	In providing subsidies, it is important that all data are above water. RefugeeWork The Netherlands must be accountable to the Ministry for the activities carried out. This is addressed very thoroughly. There is a very thorough discussion with RefugeeWork The Netherlands about whether what Justice and Security would like to support from that organisation is fulfilled. That is the basis for the subsidy for the following year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u32	Mr. Van Hattem. Third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u33	But what will prevent the Secretary of State from giving that responsibility, which is sent to the Ministry, to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u34	It's a private foundation. We have already provided the subsidy amounts to the Court in the reply. That information has been provided. In the proportions we have, it is not obvious to the Chamber to provide the underlying documents in detail. The subsidies, the information about the control and whether it went well are all applied properly according to the rules by the government. Mr Van Hattem must assume that all the organisations involved, including the control service of the Empire, will take a good look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u35	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that Refugee Work Netherlands is also a member organisation and has many members? There is also an association of members. There is nothing to prevent Mr Van Hattem from becoming a member of RefugeeWork Netherlands and calling that organisation to account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u36	As a government, we are dealing with the RefugeeWork Foundation Netherlands. As far as I'm aware, a foundation doesn't have any members, but they're all subsidists and enthusiastic people. If there is also an association, that could be done and then Mr Van Hattem could become a member of it. However, the Dutch government has to do with the RefugeeWork Foundation Netherlands. So I have to discourage the motion. Then I come to Mr Van Hattem's second motion, the motion under letter G. The government must ensure that the asylum influx does not rise again. I said first of all that it is important that the Netherlands, as a government, should provide protection to refugees fleeing war and violence. That also means the following. If the influx after this period of corona has been extremely limited over the past ten or twelve weeks, I am giving Mr Van Hattem a great deal of the same rise when the borders are open again, we will do our duty again and see which people are entitled to asylum through the asylum procedure and which people are not entitled to asylum. I cannot promise Mr Van Hattem that the asylum influx will not rise again. For that, we should keep the borders closed or lock up or close the entire asylum procedure in the Netherlands. We do not want to do that, but we cannot do that by regulation. So, unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion under letter G. Then there is the motion under letter H of Mr Van Hattem, on the publication of the reports of the provincial director's tables. In my first term, I have stated that it is in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution that the cabinet policy is not to make such documents part of the debate with the Chamber. I can't give you those reports. I have, however, promised Mr Van Hattem the objective form of it. We are. I will see if I can do this a little more extensively, but unfortunately I cannot provide the reports themselves; for that I have to change the Constitution. So I have to discourage the motion under letter H. Then there is the motion under letter I by Mr Van Hattem, on the luxury amenities. They are much more luxurious than in existing homes and or people who could apply them. Underfloor heating in existing homes is indeed a very expensive operation, which I can confirm to Mr Van Hattem, but this is new construction or construction. completely stripped buildings that are completely refurbished. That is a very different operation than applying underfloor heating in existing construction, because yes, that is indeed costly. Those luxurious facilities for these homes are therefore not luxurious, but durable. It has been asked not to use these locations for asylum seekers, but as care homes for our elderly and needy, or as homes for our Dutch citizens. I will give you the example of the administrative agreement for 15 years, but then the house can be stored in the housing stock. At the same time, I would also like to point out to Mr Van Hattem that we in the Netherlands offer asylum seekers accommodation or reception as long as they are in the procedure. So I must also advise against this motion. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u37	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u38	Then I'm gonna come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u39	I shall now suspend the sitting for a few minutes in anticipation of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for the interplay debate.
