ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care, as well as all the spokesmen. I would like to begin by giving Mr Dijkhoff the floor, but I see Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. A point of order. We have read in the newspaper that there is a document entitled "Memo impact policy scenarios economy'. That piece comes from three different ministries. In that piece, it would be clear that the consequences for the economy would be disastrous in the event of a possible lockdown, but also that the test capacity is still not sufficiently in order, so that if we went to a lockdown and reduced the number of infections, the virus would just live on again. That seems to me to be quite relevant and interesting information for this debate. I would therefore like to ask for this memo to be shared with our Chamber so that we can include it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u3	I'll see if there's anything to say about that. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u4	That question falls under the same heading as a previous question by Mr Asscher. We don't supply pieces from the Catshouse. Those are informal conversations. So those pieces aren't provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u6	I think that's too easy. Informal conversations, I'm sure they will. But there are several ministers who are invited to Catshuis talks and we in the newspaper should read that the consequences could be disastrous and that testing policy is not in order. That seems relevant to me to share here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u7	I would like to join in that. I am not interested in the personal views contained in such a memo, but apparently it also contains real information about the state of play. The latter is relevant in the context of all the new measures announced. So if the exact memo cannot be sent because it contains personal views, I understand that, but the information that can be shared, I would like to see sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u9	We see that what was once a brainstorming session at the Catshuis has become an entire institution where people are ordered, where decisions are made that subsequently get a status and where memos are discussed. So I support the request. Decisions are being taken here that affect millions of Dutch people, so the Chamber is simply entitled to that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u10	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u11	I will give you a brief answer, Mr President. It's an informal brainstorm. No decisions are being taken, and those documents I wrote to the Chamber earlier in response to Mr Asscher's request are really part of the informal exchange of views. That should be possible, otherwise a cabinet can never discuss matters in an informal setting without it leading directly to decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u12	This is just a matter of sharing information or not. I do not know whether Mrs Ouwehand would like to make a new point, but I am afraid that we will not be able to get out of this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u13	No, I get that. There are differences of opinion, but now the newspaper does have that information. And then it's really weird that the Chamber doesn't have access to those documents. As an additional argument, I would like to pass that on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u14	I see this doesn't impress me. I shall go to Mr Dijkhoff. Mrs. Marijnissen still has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u15	Finally, what I would like to say is that in this way the cabinet does leave behind the market what exactly is the idea behind not wanting to take firmer measures. To speak with the Prime Minister's words: dragging and wailing with the adoption of additional measures. Now the people's representative in the newspaper must read that this is possible because of the lack of proper testing policy. Then there are far-reaching consequences, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mrs Marijnissen, you made your point. You are supported by a number of colleagues, but we are not getting any further than this. I'm pretending I don't see Mr Wilders, but he's still walking to the interrupting microphone. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u17	Frankly, I haven't really gotten what it's about, but I want to make another point of order. It is understandable in itself, because of the hustle and bustle of the cabinet, that we do not get the documents at the same time. But last night we did not get the documents for today's debate, especially if you belong to the opposition, and you may not have gotten everything on the sidelines or the insidelines. We got those documents this morning, a few hours before this debate. I just want to say, with all due respect to the busy agendas, that this is not possible. We must at least receive the documents before the press conference begins, but if that is not possible at least in the evening. Because it is difficult for the opposition to prepare if we get the documents a few minutes or a few hours before the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u18	I totally get that. That is also absolutely our aim. It didn't work out this time, almost all other times, but I totally get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u19	That's right. Good. I hope that this will be taken into account in the future. Mr Dijkhoff, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thought I'd start sometime, too. Spontaneous comments: is the test policy in order, and has the status of the test policy had an impact on the decisions taken on the measures? I think we can just ask, and we don't have to do all kinds of witch hunts to the pieces. Mr. Chairman. There are good signals. The number of infections is still high, but the increase does not increase every day. The measures, and in particular how we all deal with them, are paying off. There are also less good signals. The second wave goes high, the pressure on the care is high and it takes a long time. Because there are so many corona patients, people who need other care have to wait. So if the number of corona patients in the hospital is falling, there's still a lot of care to be taken. So in short, if the corona pressure on the care drops, then the total pressure on the care does not fall yet. That is why it is wise to take additional measures now, and we support them. Two more weeks restricting ourselves, that should be possible. But we also keep hearing that it takes two weeks for you to know the effect of a measure. Can the cabinet explain why it has already been chosen in advance for a period of two weeks? It will be decided next week whether additional measures are needed in some regions. The question that my group has is: what is the decisive factor in this? Are these just the contagion rates in those regions and the difference between them and the rest of the country, or does the pressure on hospitals and catching up on care in those regions also weigh in? Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions about testing. What about those commercial test streets? Are we supposed to do that? Are they good enough? And do the positive tests always count in the numbers we have, so that we don't miss a part of the view, because people choose a commercial test street instead of the test streets that the government offers? Then the vaccines. I asked earlier about scenarios, who can have them in what order and how they stand. Are there any obstacles that we may encounter later, for example in the regulations, to which we in the Chamber can contribute in order to take them away in order to speed things up, so that we know in time and can begin to do so? Mr. Chairman. I also realize that a lot of entrepreneurs have once again watched and listened to yesterday's press conference with pain in their hearts. They deserve our support, especially financially. There is a separate debate on that this week, so I shall be brief. However, I would like to ask the Cabinet to continue to see the aid measures as an ever-moving process, as well as the fight against corona itself, and, where necessary, to extend specific support when we extend measures. I am also curious about the progress of the talks and the agreements that would be made with employers about working at home. Of course, I also blame myself for this.I'm here now too, but I notice when I come here that it's a little less quiet on the road than it was in spring. So we seem to be working less at home than we were then. That should really be better, because that is one that is relatively easier to do than closing down entire businesses. Finally, Mr President. In a few weeks' time, the cabinet wants to clarify the holidays. We hope, of course, that we will be far better placed when it comes to the pressure on care and contamination. But I also want to watch out for the hope that we can celebrate Christmas and old and new weather as always. That should not be the beginning of a third wave. So I would ask the cabinet to take account of it in any reduction of these measures and to promote that there will be no relaxation in the alertness of the measures still in force. I say this so that we do not regret having fun for three weeks afterwards, but have been able to close everything again. I think society is resilient in looking for ways we've always celebrated. So we'll all do the 11th of the 11th virtually and digitally, dressed up and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u22	Madam President. It's good news that the number of new infections is falling. But that's about where the good news ends. The hospitals and intensive care flow more fully and fully. So the problem with hospital care is far from over. Regular care remains in great danger. For many people care has long been scaled down. Now people with cardiovascular diseases and cancer are threatening to get their treatment again. That's not only because of the virus, it's also because of the blundering of this cabinet. Too little investment in care, too little testing, too little source and contact research, too few intensive care beds, too few care staff. Almost everything was or is a shortage, which has also caused hospital care problems, so that the cabinet is taking freedom-limiting measures again. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we live in a country where filthy VVD bookkeepers have ensured that there is little room for manoeuvre in hospital capacity, making the grand error in a crisis situation like today. Because even without a crisis, 85% of the beds in Dutch hospital care are already occupied. That means, I think, enough: there is hardly a buffer. I wonder every day, every day that the crisis lasts longer, where the care offensive of this cabinet remains. Where is the Prime Minister who says: "I am not giving EUR 100 billion more to Brussels, Italy, France, Greece, but I am going to invest extra in our care here in the Netherlands, something that two thirds of Dutch people also want." Where is the Prime Minister who says: "I am going to give the care workers their well-deserved extra salary. I'm going to carry out the Wilders motion. I, Prime Minister of the Netherlands, will reopen closed hospitals. I'm going to invest in extra ic capacity, in additional care staff. I'm going to help people in this country in these difficult times by eliminating their own risk. I'm going to make sure that people get the care they need again and that in the next crisis we don't have to scale down care for people with heart problems, cancer, diabetes or kidney diseases. I, Prime Minister of the Netherlands, will make sure that we are ready for the future." Why can't I hear the Prime Minister say that? The Netherlands craves that. Madam President. The cabinet does exactly the opposite. The cabinet is going to scale the 200 ic-beds and the 400 regular beds it has now scaled up again when corona is over. So Rutte didn't learn anything from the corona crisis. What if a Chinese guy throws another kind of bat in a wok and a new virus comes? What if a disaster happens to the petrochemical industry in our Rotterdam ports? What if we're dealing with major terrorist attacks? Are you sure the care is in order? To this end, we should have a national crisis care reserve, a separate column for crisis care, separate buildings with thousands of beds and the best equipment, where a legion of 20,000, 25,000 BIG registered former nurses is ready to jump in when there is a crisis situation, so that regular care does not have to be scaled down in the next crisis. I would like a response from the cabinet to this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a word about the implementation of this other motion that I have adopted in order to provide more care staff as a matter of urgency. To begin with, I would like to pay tribute to all those people who have applied to join us. But apart from that, Minister Van Ark's letter on this matter is truly embarrassing. Any sense of urgency or ambition is lacking. Hollow phrases, zero action. When it comes to extra staff, you wonder what the Cabinet has done over the past few months to solve that big problem in today's care, the shortage of care staff. So just one more question: how many staff are there now in the hospitals, in the nursing homes? What's the exact shortage there? When will that deficit be resolved, how exactly, with how many additional employees and within what time frame? I'd like a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks of extra heavy measures. Of course, that wasn't the message we were all hoping for. You can see everywhere in the reactions that one has the feeling of having to return more freedoms. The feelings of loneliness and despondency, which were highlighted in the press conference, also strike. At the same time, I think we all understand that it has to do with the pressure on care and the delay of other regular care that people need. And there's the craving for a Christmas as normal as possible. But I think we all know people who go into quarantine because they have corona or because they've had a call that someone around them has. Because the virus is all around us. From that perspective, I think a lot of people understand that these additional measures will be necessary in the next two weeks in order to reduce that peak more quickly. That is in our common interest. But it's also hard. I just mentioned the danger of despondency. That is why we are talking about the importance of providing perspective. That is what you saw in the press conference, but also in the OMT opinion and in the letter, which, by the way, was far too late in that regard, I agree with Mr Wilders. Only, that perspective is not just about where we stand at Christmas, because this is going to be a very long winter. In that long winter, I think the most important hopeful perspective that we can have is a society in which rapid testing in a safe way makes much more possible than in recent months. This morning's letter and OMT's recommendation dealt with rapid testing, but that was mainly about antigen tests and the fact that they have a high percentage of false negatives, which is very dangerous when talking about providing space to society. Diederik Gommers was in Op1 yesterday. He was there again in conversation with young people about society. In this case, it was about people who had organised illegal parties. On TV it was also about that with these quick tests you can turn irresponsible behaviour of young people into responsible behavior. But I missed what I asked for in the previous two debates, and what Mr Klaver I have been looking at has been doing for a while: how can you use the lung tests and the breath tests not only in the context of health care, but also in providing space to society? It was mainly about antigen tests in today's letter, while the debate promised that the other tests, which could provide space for society, would be explicitly addressed. This is very important in the context of the perspective. So I'd really like to hear when that's going to happen. I would like to say that I am concerned about today's news about the regional approach and that mayors indicate that they do not have that much confidence in it. Then I feel a little back to the summer, when the discussion on the question of 'whether or not regional' turned into 'actually we are too late, so now we are going to country'. When the letter and the OMT opinion talk about closing the schools or talking about introducing curfews, nobody is happy about it. But I do find it special if we do not do it regionally and we go to curfew in Friesland or in Groningen because we do not want to do it alone where the virus really is at a critical point. Can the cabinet indicate how this regional approach to matters such as curfew can be designed and when it comes to closing schools if there is a fireplace too big? How do we not fall into what we saw last summer? I would like to conclude with the point that Mr Wilders has just concluded with. That was indeed discussed in depth yesterday: how do more people get crisis jobs? A motion was tabled on that yesterday. How do you get more people to work there? I'm very curious. It is important that its impact is rapid. However, I would also like to point out that after an initiative such as Extra Hands for Care, there will be a doubling of the number of applications within a week. Apart from the necessity and importance of these crisis jobs, this also shows the strength in our society. That's also a message of hope, because we know it's going to be a very long coronawinter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you. I actually wanted to say at the beginning that I allow two interruptions in two in the first term from the side of the Chamber. Four separate questions, too. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u26	I heard the CDA talking about giving space to society, and I'm very much in favour of that. And illegal parties certainly don't. But I wonder why the CDA is always voting against motions calling on the cabinet to act against the slaughterhouses. The OMT has also recommended that at least a notification requirement be introduced, so that we know when there are major infections there. I was wondering if the CDA would be willing to make that call to the cabinet. The cabinet's refusing to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u27	I think it is a creative bridge by Mrs Ouwehand, because it was indeed about giving space to society with rapid tests. This played initially at slaughterhouses, but we also saw in all kinds of places with migrant workers that there were fireplaces there. I believe that the last letter, in response to Mr Roemer's report, now responds to this. But this is not about slaughterhouses specifically, because that plays much wider with migrant workers. In my opinion, the cabinet reports that there have not been any major fireplaces lately, but that there is still a risk. Then I would like to know what is going to be done with that report that was presented this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u28	The cabinet reports there are no fireplaces in slaughterhouses. Why? Because slaughterhouses are free to decide how to shape that policy. Museums close, but abattoirs have no choice. And over and over again, and Mr Heerma needs to know by now, there are signs from the workplace that there are infections, but that these people are simply not protected and are not heard. And there's not even a reporting obligation. So why look away from this demonstrablely dangerous situation? Everything you allow there is at the expense of space in other places in society. Close the museums, but not the slaughterhouses. You just can't defend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u29	I find the latter rather complicated, because in the discussion "why is this and why not?" You always come out: don't do anything, because there's always something else that's also tricky. I do not think the accusation of looking away is right either, because I indicated, just in response to Mr Ouwehand's question, that I am curious about the reaction of the cabinet to Mr Roemer's report on labour migration, and a little more than the brief passage that was written about it in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mr Heerma also says something about the care staff and that care capacity. Look, my idea, our idea, a PVV idea would be to do it in preparation for a possible next crisis at least in a separate column. Because if you do that in hospital care, it might help a little bit. It's necessary anyway, by the way, but you don't have any additional potential in a crisis situation. So our idea would be: a separate column, perhaps also funded separately, and having beds there, staffing, standing by, with BIG-registered nurses, who, for example, let you train once a year to be usable, and to have the best equipment. If at some point there is another crisis, of any kind, then we are so prepared. And what's the big advantage of that separate column? This is not at the expense of regular care. Is that an idea that the colleague of the CDA, with us, also likes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u31	I can see two different things. After all, Mr Wilders' motion, which was adopted, which was responded to in the letter and which, of course, was also discussed yesterday, is really about combating staff shortages in healthcare. And there's a lot of things going on. We believe that these crisis jobs, which were also discussed yesterday in the debate and on which a motion was tabled, have real opportunities, apart from all the voluntary initiatives that there are. And when it comes to how you shape the future, I myself think that's not a matter of how we prepare for another wave. Mr Ernst Kuipers told us very clearly about this recently in the technical briefing: we are dealing with a situation of how care has been shaped. This was compared to Germany: there the care was designed as it was in the Netherlands in the 1970s. And Mr Wilders mainly puts it down to the VVD, but we have been very concerned with efficient care with numerous cabinets, including the CDA. Because we have to look at that with another pair of glasses, too, I myself said that we have to stop thinking about it in just in time, and I think that the suggestion that Mr Wilders makes for the future is an option that needs to be explored. I'm not going to say that this should be him, but that you should have that pandemic to the future as a sort of check on whether we haven't been too efficient, whether it hasn't been too much of an accounting mentality, and I'm actually going with him. Whether it's going to be exactly like that... I hope he understands that I'm not going to say that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u32	No, I understand. That's too bad, but I can understand that. The PVV has been calling for years, no matter what you have actually said in the General Political Reviews, that we should look at this bookkeeping mentality, in my words, whether it should be otherwise. That's one. But my proposal was also a proposal, and I thought I would get you to share it with me, too, and that we should look at the next disaster scenario so that that concern is not scaled down again. If you say that you think the PVV proposal is worth exploring together with other ideas and yours, then we are already a long way off. In addition to investing more in care, we also need to be more ready for the next crisis. If this is one of the proposals you are open to, it may not be the only one, and you do not have to say that you support it now, and if you also think it should be explored, then we are already a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u33	I am not sure whether Mr Wilders with a next crisis means a third wave in this crisis or a pandemic in the future, because there is a big difference between that and me. I think that at the moment the organisation of the care is completely different. That is why I also referred to Mr Kuipers as being unrealistic given the many years of choices that have already been made. But I didn't keep the story I kept in the General Political Reviews for nothing. I mentioned the stress test. Apart from a certain lack of efficiency in market thinking in more places in the economy, I think that this is going to be a major issue in the coming years, including in election campaigns and election programmes, in the sense that things will really change in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr Heerma talks about extra hands in the care. Of course, we're gonna need it extra now. 50PLUS has the idea that pension funds, especially pension funds, may be involved in healthcare in order to register former care workers. Is that an idea that appeals to Mr. Heerma?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u35	Quite frankly, I can't see that right now. I assume that Mrs Sazias will go into this further in her first term on behalf of 50PLUS. I'm gonna listen to it. I can't see now whether that's contributing or not, but I'm going to listen with interest to your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten van D66. It's good to have you back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and good to be back. Mr. Chairman. An extra brake on the lockdown, in a week in which we are on the right track with regard to the number of infections. Many people are right to ask: are these new measures necessary, are they effective and proportionate? And quite frankly, I too am struggling with those questions. But the Prime Minister and the Ministers are right to point out that, despite the decline in contamination, there are still serious concerns. The number of hospital admissions isn't dropping fast enough. Care workers work three rounds, but regular care is under pressure. In three regions, the number of infections is far too high. I therefore understand that the cabinet is taking additional measures, but I do not always understand why the cabinet has chosen these specific measures. First of all... Why can the IKEA or the Primark open, but does the cinema have to close? For museums, film halls and stage artists, this is rare, because they have taken measures in recent weeks to be safe and open and hardly see any contamination. Can the Prime Minister explain what demonstrable contribution this closure will make to reducing the number of infections? Is two weeks really two weeks? Second. Why open the school and the gym but close the library? Don't get me wrong, D66 thinks it's very important that schools and daycare can stay open, and that we can be fit and healthy and stay healthy by exercising is now very important, but the library is also the place for a lot of people to be able to study quietly now, to borrow a book to get through the lockdown or the place where you take care of your banking when you don't have a computer or internet at home. Is the cabinet prepared to make an exception for libraries? Third. Why has there been some deviation from the roadmap, such as the maximum number of guests at a wedding? A roadmap brings predictability and confidence, but unexpected or unsubstantiated measures gnaw at that very support. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. In three regions, the corona situation is worrying. Understandably, the cabinet is considering additional measures if next week is not going well, including a regional lockdown, including a curfew. D66 is not yet convinced of the usefulness of such a curfew. The extra effect seems very limited. This is also reflected in the opinion of the European ECDC. It is also difficult to maintain, because what do you do with employees from the care or industry working on shiftwork, the driver who supplies the supermarket at night or the person who takes a walk with the dog after a tiring day at home? Why is curfew in the eyes of the cabinet a proportionate measure? How will it be maintained? Finally, Mr President. We will have to live with the virus for months, as Mr Heerma has just said. In those months, I want a country where we can preserve as much of our freedom as possible. In the coming months, we will not be able to continue with restrictions and more measures. What perspective can the cabinet offer? I'll tell the cabinet to make an exit strategy. Look not only at the black scenarios, but also at the green scenarios. When and under what conditions can we relax if the infections go in the right direction? Because there are also bright spots to name. In the coming weeks, the first XL test streets will open and rapid tests will be available. With a clear vaccination strategy, we can better protect vulnerable people, care workers and teachers. That allows for perspective, space to sustain life with the virus for months to come, until we have the virus underneath and enough people vaccinated. So I call on the cabinet to outline that perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u39	It's nice to see Mr. Jetten here in the Chamber again. Mr. Chairman. We knew that additional measures were needed, not to counter the peak in hospitals, but to make sure that after that we make sure that the hospitals are not full and that we get the pressure off the care. So I'd like to start by saying that I understand. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Cabinet indicates that they are now seriously considering a firework ban for 2020, because it is important not to increase the pressure on hospitals on New Year's Eve. So I'm very happy about that. I also expect that there will be. The questions I have today are about the proportionality of the measures. I don't do that to place a "yes, but," because you can do that with all the measures, but I do have the question: why do you make what choice? When I look at the package of measures, I see that we can still shop at the Primark or the Ikea or the MediaMarkt, where it has just been very busy lately, but that it is chosen to close cultural institutions, such as museums, for which you have to buy a ticket, where there are walkways and where you can see that there are really many fewer people, in the next two weeks. What's the point of this trade-off? I want an insight into that. Secondly, and this is perhaps even more important to me, there was yesterday's press conference, and I didn't see it in the letter of the Chamber, so I would like to talk about the neighborhoods and libraries. I'm really worried about that. I was at one of the community centers here in The Hague this morning. I cycled by it on my way to the House of Representatives. I went in there to ask, "What are you doing? What's the big deal? What's going on?" Such a community center is not only a place where you are going to have a cup of coffee, but it hasn't been able to do so for a while but it is also the first place for the relief. People go there when they're in debt or when there's trouble. We see this happening much more often now, because of the economic crisis. But even if you have relationship problems or if you don't feel safe at home, you go there. That is often the beginning of the start of aid. If you close those places, you won't be able to. The same applies, for example, to libraries. That's not only a place where you're gonna borrow a book, but it's also the place where children get homework guidance and where 17,000 children who don't have Internet access at home do have Internet access. You'll take it away from them. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to reconsider these two measures. Because when we talk about protecting the most vulnerable, we are not only talking about our elderly and those with weak health, but also about all those other vulnerable people, such as children for whom home is not safe. These are exactly where they can still go. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I've also talked a lot about testing policy. The colleagues also talked about it: you need an exit strategy, a perspective. Again, I really do not read enough about this in the letter. In what way do we ensure that the tests are used to see how we can get society going again? I notice that the focus is entirely on whether we can demonstrate with such a test that someone has corona. But what matters is whether we can prove that someone is contagious or not, and whether we can show that someone doesn't have it. That's much more important. In this way, we can return freedoms, especially to young people. 'Cause illegal parties can't do anything. Let us be absolutely clear about that. There must be a strong response to this. But for young people, it's gonna be a tough time. That applies to everyone, but especially to young people. Let's try to give them those freedoms back a little bit. Those tests can play a crucial role in this. So I'm in favour of giving perspective after such an exit strategy, but be careful of offering false hope. I hope we can spend Christmas with all the people we love. Yesterday it was pointed out that these measures could do that. But I don't think we can promise that. I prefer that a week before Christmas suddenly turns out that it can, rather than that now the illusion or feeling of "if we do our best, then we come" and people are disappointed. Let us please show the Netherlands that this is going to take a long time, perhaps until January. And if things get better, we can give you something instead of taking something from you. I think that is very important for the support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can't destroy the virus, just stamp it, but just that polding is what we now see too much from the cabinet, and even inside the cabinet, it seems. That doesn't make it any clearer. We heard yesterday that we can still go to the hardware store, where it is generally busy, but that we are no longer allowed to walk with family or friends. You can still buy a book, but you can't borrow a book anymore. We wonder what the perspective the cabinet wants to outline here. Colleagues have already referred to this. As far as we are concerned, this perspective stands or falls with greater clarity on the basis of the approach of the coronavirus, namely source and contact research and testing. If we then have to read in the newspaper that there is a piece, a memo, on the table that says that the test policy is not so in order that even if we manage to reduce the number of infections, the virus will just live on again, I am very shocked. I really want to know what's going on with the cabinet today. I would also like to know about testing in the commercial test streets. Do we have enough eyes on that? We are now somewhat optimistic because the number of infections is falling, but what are the chances that this will turn out to be wrong because we are missing infections in those commercial test streets? Then test it without any complaints. That's where it's really starting to wring. If you now receive a notification from the app or if you come forward from the source and contact research because you have been in contact with someone who is infected, you should stay at home and you should not go to work, but you should not be tested if you have no complaints. That is not only very frustrating, but it is also very expensive for companies to have all those people at home. So shouldn't today also be the time to say that testing without complaints is possible, at least for those who are warned by the app and who emerge from the source and contact research? It's supposed to be possible. Mr. Chairman. We also have great concerns about our care, not only in the hospital, but certainly outside the hospital. The number of infections in the nursing homes is now again at the level of March and April, and that is terrible. And at that very moment, the cabinet is performing it to send a plan called a "coal sketch" to the Chamber in which the option is on the table to work with less emergency aid posts in the Netherlands. I really wonder what this cabinet has learned from this corona crisis, in which we have a shortage of almost everything in care: Ic-beds, hospitals, tests, protective equipment, even care workers. Isn't now the time? To make a plan to rebuild the care together instead of squeezing it even further? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday at the press conference we heard nice, fair words for our caregivers. We had to be grateful and show solidarity with them, and I wholeheartedly endorse that. But we also know since last week that the cabinet is not going to carry out the motion for higher salaries in health care adopted here. And that is not only a blow in the face of healthcare professionals and a blow in the face of the House of Representatives, but it is especially so irresponsible. Because we need those extra colleagues so badly and a better salary can help. Since yesterday there is not only an approved proposal in the Lower House about higher salaries in the care, but also in the Upper House. It wasn't a mistake in the First Chamber. In the First Chamber it was not a narrow majority, but there was a large majority. So you will understand that we cannot accept that the cabinet sent the same piece of shit again just before this debate as last week, namely that caregivers are not getting that increase. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet tackles the crisis as it tackles all problems. We see that the rents of people who are uncertain about their income are rising enormously. We see thousands of people losing their jobs. And at the same time, we see the rich getting richer. Our caregivers still have to wait for their salary increase, but KLM gets the top prize. As far as we're concerned, it's time for something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. Everyone needs good news and light at the end of the corona tunnel, but that was clearly not there yesterday. It was very bad news, and you could predict that, because there are still a lot of people getting sick from corona. It leaves me with the question that I have perhaps asked here dozens of times: why hasn't there been an earlier and firmer intervention? We are now entering a kind of long quail winter, with lots of people who are sick and lots of restrictions. At least that could have been shorter if you followed the government's reasoning. So I would very much like to know what information there is now, which was not there last week and three weeks ago, when we had the same conversation about this. But I also want to know what's going to be done to contain it later, if the infections are, I hope, lower again. How is it ensured that you don't end up in an endless, depressing coronajo, from golf to golf? In the summer we asked to learn the lessons of the first wave. Those lessons have not been learned or applied. But now it needs to be tested, traced and isolated so that fewer people get sick and we can start building our economy slowly again. Mr. Chairman. Now that it is as it is, I would like to use this debate to talk about the social crisis that is also the corona crisis. The subject has already been raised by many here. It is a fact that many more people are becoming ill who work in the vital sectors, who have a much more vulnerable position, who live in the bad neighbourhoods and who often have a migration background. It is a fact that people there have lost their jobs before and so it is much harder to deal with the limitations of corona. It's harder not to get sick, and if you get sick, it's harder to go into quarantine in a small apartment where you live with a lot of people. I ask the Cabinet, together with the municipalities, to draw up a plan to help people not get sick. I know that there is information in other languages, but it has to be much more active: you have to go into the neighbourhoods with those municipalities. I am asking for mouth caps to be provided there, because that is indeed a threshold. I'm asking you to help the food banks. The Red Cross has made an emergency call, because there are not enough volunteers and there is not enough food. I'm asking the Cabinet to go into the neighborhood and help people with their income support. I ask that the corona debts that are now emerging be combated much earlier, because this is a huge social crisis. It's also a big part of the infections you see coming. You're not gonna make it with these press conferences. The second part of that social crisis is the corona generation that arises. The University of Oxford showed that the learning disadvantages that arise in primary schools are greater in children who do not have the network. Then when you close the libraries and the community centers, you threaten to deepen that crisis. I would also like to ask the cabinet here to draw up a plan to fight this more actively. I believe that these crisis jobs could be a solution. Pay students who lost their side jobs in the catering industry to tutor children. For example, children who are lagging behind quickly and we do not rely on what is now threatening to happen to that corona generation, but we are helping those children. These are consequences that will otherwise haunt us for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u44	In my view, Mr Asscher is making an interesting proposal here, which is somewhat in line with yesterday's debate and with yesterday's motion tabled by our two groups yesterday. The focus of the crisis jobs is of course very much on care so far, but the research described in the Volkskrant this morning shows that educational disadvantages are increasing especially among people with low-educated parents. So the gap is getting bigger. I would therefore like to support the plea. Perhaps students or catering staff can work as class assistants or escorts at school. In the care, you can see that it goes all over the place. In theory, could it be done in a different way? Students could, for example, get extra credits or something like that. You can see that students who worked in the hospitality industry are not doing that right now. I think they can be used in this way. It could be with jobs, but also in other ways, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u45	I'm sure there's other ways to do that. I would like to challenge the cabinet to go with the municipalities to the table and be creative in this. Bring those libraries and the facilities they need there to the children. Turn on people who don't have a side job or a job anymore. Offer them an alternative income. If you can do that in other ways, that's fine. But the most important thing is that this social crisis is recognised as something that also requires an active public role. That is what is happening and is getting worse now that we have to take this into account for a long time. We've all seen these depressing graphs. The damage of a short limitation is already there. It's already been proven. But the potential damage and the disruption, because he is also wrong about society, are so great that it now requires intervention as far as I am concerned. This also applies to the third group I would like to talk about: people who are lonely, vulnerable and isolate themselves because they are afraid of their health or those of partners. Also, with those dark days of December coming, I would say: come up with a more active approach. The cabinet did say something about it at the press conference. Take a look there again with municipalities, but perhaps also with all the people in the culture who are now shy about work, at what solutions you can come up with to ease that loneliness, to make sure that people do have contacts, even if it is not a contact where they are at risk for the virus. This social crisis, which is compounded by the economic crisis, which exacerbates inequality in our society and puts a magnifying glass of inequality that was already there, must be combated. That cannot be postponed. It also helps with the fight against virus, because it is part of the figures in Rotterdam that we are very worried about. When we say that we are coming together because of this corona crisis, it is also an obligation for all of us to do much more, to spend money on it, to commit ourselves to it and to cooperate with the municipalities. We owe that to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u47	Madam President. It's thank you today. Maybe it doesn't feel like a thank-you day at all. Still, I'd like to take a moment to think about it. Yes, we are taking measures, far-reaching measures, measures that affect all of us. However, it is nice to express gratitude, towards people in care, education, police, emergency services, civil servants, towards voluntary organisations, churches, people who really want to pay attention to others. But also thanks to these rulers, who work day and night in this crisis and give their best forces. Thank you for that. That doesn't change the fact that I have some questions. There is also a critical question here and there. I'd better start with that last one. I cannot take all the measures back to the Roadmap. We asked for a road map in the Jetten motion. He said, "Make it predictable and insightful where we're going and when we're doing something." There are different phases and different packages. Now I see different measures from different phases, such as the very serious phase, the lockdown phase. Sometimes they even go beyond the lockdown phase. Think, for example, of the numbers in funerals and marriages. That leads to confusion. Can the cabinet clarify this once again? The same applies to the scenarios. Make it clear when you do what and with what effect. Mr Asscher spoke just now about shorter and more intense intervention. What effect does it have if you let things last longer? If we take that into account, we can consciously make a very good choice and include people in the choices we make. When are we going to contain and control this crisis, of the virus? Madam President. School stays open. That is good, because they are a crucial place of meeting and are crucial for the development of children, young people. At the same time, the closure of schools in secondary education is on the table. This option is on the table in the regional approach. But I also heard Mayor Bruls' commentary. He says, "I don't think that's such a good idea." It doesn't help that you have another public discussion about when you do what and whether the regional approach is right or not. I'd like some clarity. I'd like to keep that kind of discussion in chambers. Working at home isn't going well yet. The OMT advises to make further arrangements with employers because the calls have not been followed up sufficiently so far. But I don't read anything about it in the cabinet letter. Is the Cabinet still going to make these appointments? Mr. Chairman. The situation in the care sector is acute, including in day-to-day spending. Is it true that due to capacity problems, day-use needs to be scaled down in some places? What can the cabinet do to keep this scale as limited and short as possible? What can we do wider to support people in care who are now faced with incomprehension about the scaling-down in care? Where there was still a lot of understanding in the spring and everyone was very warm around the care, you now see many more short fuses and much brighter reactions. How can we stand next to the care staff and help them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u48	I share with Mr Segers that we have a lot of people's questions and that there are critical questions about them. One of these questions is: if we ask all these difficult things about people, where is the cabinet going to ensure that at least the basic health of Dutch people improves? I know that the Christian Union has always been a strong supporter of good prevention policy, but it looks a little away when it comes to air quality, for example. A study has been published this morning showing that almost 20% of the coronados in the Netherlands would have a link with the poor air quality. Then I think: where is the Christian Union dealing with the livestock industry and the polluting industry? These are demonstrably a risk to people's basic health, which increases the burden of care and accelerates the onset of serious complaints and even deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u49	I find it difficult to make that link one-on-one, to indicate very accurately and precisely how strong that link is. But you can't say that air quality or prevention is anything to us. There's a Prevention Agreement. This concerns health through food and lifestyle. But also think about air quality and the Climate Agreement. The cabinet has done a great deal on these points. Our commitment has always been clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u50	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u51	It would be nice if that were true, but the Prevention Agreement seems to have been written mainly with the lobby of the food industry in the neck. As far as air quality is concerned, I can say that this cabinet, which I am referring to, is the Ministry of LNV and the Ministry of VWS, which said to us that we have more important things to do. We have just actively lobbied in order to open up China's markets to Dutch pork. Anything to get the cattle industry back on the old level. Then you can't say with dry eyes that the Christian Union is committed to good basic health, including good air quality for people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u52	That is what I am saying, because we have helped to bring about a warm restructuring of pig farming. The number of pigs is falling. It's not rising; it's falling. So very good measures are being taken. Let me now turn to prevention. Of course it is your job to always say: it may be more, it may be better. It is also my job internally within the coalition to say: there can be a little bit more on top. But as long as all kinds of people come to me angry because of the Prevention Agreement, I know we've done some very good things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u53	Proceed, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u54	Madam President, finally. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his warm encouragement to take good care of each other, to fight loneliness among people who are lonely, young and old. I have been here before to tell you about #not only, an initiative of churches and voluntary organisations who want to be there for others at this time. #Not only does the coming months want to put their backs on it again, especially towards Christmas, because Christmas is not just a celebration. They want to be there for the other. Hear the call to watch each other a little bit. So I ask the Cabinet not only to support those initiatives of #, for example, in the coming months. On Monday, discussions will take place between #not only, Present, Sunflower, Humanitas, volunteer organisations that are willing to be ready for others, and people from the Ministry of Science and Technology, among others. So discuss how we can work together and how we can make this a national movement towards Christmas. NPO and commercial broadcasters could join in on this. Because right now, we have to say to each other: you're not alone either. Encourage each other to show that we're there for each other. Right towards Christmas. 'Cause we're not alone, we're in this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I start traditionally friendly; if you can say something friendly, you should always do so. The Animal Party appreciates that the government is looking for a way to balance the fight against the virus with the general well-being of Dutch people. The Party for Animals has also explicitly asked for this. Fighting the virus is incredibly important, but we must not lose sight of the human need for contact and spiritual well-being through that contact. So we appreciate that the cabinet is trying to look at what to do in that way. However, I would remind you of the Prime Minister's words: political choice is in scarcity. Then, of course, the choices amaze me, and then I express myself carefully. We can go to the Action, but we can't go to the museum. The abattoirs are allowed to control everything, while they are demonstrable fireplaces where employees do not feel safe to report, while room motions are ignored and OMT opinions on it as well. But the libraries need to close... it can't be that way. What can't be done is that the cabinet will keep space for itself not to do the things that it itself finds a little difficult. When the Prime Minister says "choose on each other, boys, come on, we have to do it together for two weeks," the Netherlands wants to help, I'm sure. But why not put the cabinet itself on the same page and say: okay, then we defy the farmers' lobby; then we defy the aviation lobby; then we also trot the lobby of the food industry, because those sectors are demonstrably endangering Dutch public health? Why doesn't it say: when we ask people to "choose on each other," we also do some tough things, then we also show that we are here to do difficult things? That's where the cabinet is really failing. The Party of Animals has asked all kinds of critical questions to the cabinet. What about the cattle business? Do you have any idea that if we do not intervene, we are just growing the next pandemic with our own livestock sector? Our own top virologist Ron Fouchier says pigs are mixers for flu viruses. We have ridiculously many in the Netherlands, so if something happens there, we have a very big problem. We were very surprised that the ministry of VWS responded to all these critical questions from the Party for Animals in the vein of: well, difficult; we are busy; you will get an answer. There wasn't time for any of it. No time to intervene to prevent another pandemic. And what could have happened? Lobbying to reopen the market in China for Dutch pork, with the help of the Ministry of VWS. That's just not possible, folks. You can't do that. What's it gonna take for this cabinet to really wake them up, to prevent another disaster? Last week another warning report on the emergence of pandemics came from a UN Institute. If we do not intervene now, this has only been a dress rehearsal of what awaits us. Action of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. There's good news, too. There's movement. We very much appreciate the government's willingness to take a serious look at the proposal by GroenLinks and the Party for Animals that this year at least not burden the care and enforcers with all the consequences of a New Year's night full of fireworks. Can we agree that the cabinet will decide within two weeks, and then positively decides that we will not do so this year? Finally, Mr President. Last week, the Prime Minister, together with all the European Heads of Government, talked about: how can we jointly get this virus underneath? He said it was too late to change the agenda. So here's what I'm wondering. What is the government going to do to get on the next agenda there that we are going to decide together that we are going to tackle aviation, stop fur imports and the fur industry in Europe, and that we are going to reverse the billions of subsidies for the European livestock industry that the European Union has recently decided to take back when we return to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning I unexpectedly got a video about vitamin D, a little vitamin D. I thought it was about those well-known pills that the Prime Minister knows too, but it was about something completely different, about gratitude. Young people from the Ichthus College in Veenendaal told with a radiant face what they were grateful for. That they could live in a country without war. That they had good friends. That they could get good grades. It was actually a very beautiful story of all those things that go well, despite all the sad, the annoying, the restrictive and the nasty things that are there. As you can see, this is in the tradition that Mr Segers mentioned from the thank-you day for crop and labour in the Protestant tradition. But I realized at once how nice it is to have fixed times again, not only in good times but also in bad times, to think about the good that is still to be found in spite of everything and to talk about it with others, to think about the good that God gives. Mr. Chairman. In the fight against corona a broader view is needed than just that on the coronadashboard. Yesterday, my motion was unanimously adopted calling on the Cabinet to clarify how the social consequences are taken into account in the decision-making process on the corona measures. How is this motion carried out and how is the municipality involved? In order to ensure greater acceptance and clarity of the measures, the cabinet drew up a roadmap a few weeks ago. Several colleagues have already asked about it. How is it that a number of points have been abandoned? Predictability was a key word, after all. The point of the weddings has already been mentioned. I would now like to focus on the more stringent measures on funerals. The Roadmap said that even in the most extreme situation, a lockdown, there can always be 100 people at funeral homes. Outside that was even a much larger number: 250. A few weeks ago, Minister De Jonge indicated in the debate in this Chamber that it was clearly the intention not to set a maximum number for funerals. He said: it is very hard not to say goodbye to loved ones. Against this background, I wonder why the cabinet has now decided to set a maximum number of 30 people and to abolish the distinction between inside and outside. I read that schools and sports clubs are no longer limited, because the added value in the fight against virus does not outweigh the far-reaching social consequences of possible measures. Recognizable, I share that. But why isn't the same for the funerals? I would ask you to reconsider this point. The additional measures are now presented as temporary tightening for two weeks. However, the Outbreak Management Team indicates that it is conceivable that certain measures are needed longer if it appears that the number of infections has not decreased sufficiently. How about this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, there are two points: regional tailor-made work and the taxableness of care. Regional customization was the motto. The government is considering even stricter measures for regions where the number of infections remains high and the pressure on care is high. But is the news that Security Council chairman Bruls doesn't feel that way? How do we prevent us from ending up in the same situation as in the summer in which everyone keeps playing the ball to each other? I see that there are also regions that are doing relatively well: the northern provinces, Zeeland. What can we learn from that? So what is the prospect for these regions of easing? Finally, the strength of care. The cabinet asks society to go an extra mile to reduce the number of infections more quickly. On the other hand, we can expect the cabinet to provide an additional mile to relieve the burden of care. Then I'm thinking about situations outside the hospitals, too. What is an acceptable strength of nursing home care, general practitioners and home care? What agreements are there about care outside hospitals with, for example, general practitioners and self-employed treatment clinics? Finally, I would like to put that question to the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr. Chairman. When the Prime Minister opened his press conference yesterday with the words 'it's not bad with the Netherlands but it's not good enough', I thought I heard the understatement of the year. How can you say that things don't go badly in the Netherlands when we have a quarter more recordings on the ic's, the coronavirus has crept back into one in four nursing homes, in the metropolitan region of Rotterdam 1 in 102 people is contagious and, most importantly, there is enormous uncertainty among Dutch people and distrust of the government is enormous when it comes to testing policy and a future vaccine? Mr. Chairman. I come to my preliminary conclusion: Rutte's approach to the coronavirus is not bad but not good enough. Communication is still one of the weakest points of this couple. For example, yesterday the Prime Minister was quite sure that the country will be able to return to the previous set of measures in two weeks' time. Of course, everyone is looking for relaxation and good prospects. But why is the cabinet going to play nice again? Why not wait for the figures before it talks about scaling and easing? That's the OMT's own advice. Why is there a derogation in this case? Mr. Chairman. While there is no clustering in the cultural sector, such as commuting and education, this sector is ruined after catering. How wretched is it to close theaters, cinemas and museums, which have spent a lot of time, money and energy to continue to realize performances with due regard for all measures? What is the government's view of the possibility of reducing the number of infections caused by this measure? For many people, going to the movies or visiting a museum was one last outlet. Why doesn't the cabinet do anything with the OMT advice to focus more heavily on homework? There's simply too much commuting. The Prime Minister said yesterday that he's in conversation with sectors. Why isn't it getting along? Why isn't there more stringent action in achieving homework for everyone who can do that? Because students and students still have to go to school and people go to their workplace public transport continues to be packed during peak hours. The same people who are fined on the street if they don't keep their distance, can sit on the train cozyly on top of each other. It's a long way from logic. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? There is rightly a great deal of attention to the acute shortage of staff and protective equipment for hospitals, but this problem also arises in home care and care. Here too, daily care and support are scaled down. People get less washed and less often get groceries. In many cases, neighbourhood nurses and home care workers have to finance personal protective equipment from their own pockets. In the meantime, home care workers and neighbourhood nurses run a high risk of becoming infected themselves, and then potentially infecting vulnerable elderly people. I think it is right that care workers in hospitals and nursing homes should receive a lot of attention. However, the DENK Group believes that at least as much attention should be paid to home care and care. I therefore ask the Cabinet: what are you going to do to provide home care and care services with the support they deserve? Mr. Chairman. The press conference briefly discussed an additional regional approach if necessary. What exactly does the cabinet intend to do in the regions where the figures show a worse picture? Is regional aid being granted to sectors which are particularly affected by regional problems? If a curfew is set up in Rotterdam, what will the cabinet do to support the entrepreneurs who make their living in the evening, such as evening shops or delivery restaurants? Finally, Mr President. People are concerned about what happens to their personal data when they are tested by the GGD. There is uncertainty about what happens to the storage of personal data and DNA after taking a test. Can the Minister assure us that there is no way of storing data from people who are being tested for improper use?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr. Chairman. Looks like the number of infections is dropping. That sounds like good news, but to what extent do those numbers add up? Less has been tested in recent weeks and possibly people have been tested in commercial test streets that are not included. Mr Van Dissel is also particularly concerned about this, because we do not have a clear view of the real situation. What can the Cabinet do to complete that registration? The cabinet also has a possible curfew and closure of secondary schools on the table. When is the time that will be introduced? How are the parameters supposed to stand? There is a difference of opinion between the OMT and the presidents of the security regions. The first calls for more regional measures and the mayors want national measures. What does the Minister think about this? Mr. Chairman. Now we have taken all kinds of measures under the Emergency Law to ensure that employers cannot oblige employees to download that Corona app. But now it turns out it's just working the other way around. There are employers who prefer not to have employees install that app, because when a notification has to quarantine the employee and that costs the employer money. What can the Minister do about this? Even the work at home does not happen as much as in the first wave. This really needs another boost. The Minister is already in talks with the employers, but this has not yet been achieved. How are we going to promote homework again? For many vulnerable elderly people it is difficult to get to a test street. General practitioners do some tests at home, but they have insufficient capacity to do so for all vulnerable elderly people. Is it possible for district nurses to take this test? And what is the state of affairs regarding the validation of rapid tests and the breath test? Especially the latter would be very nice, because a stick in your nose up to your brainpan is not a party. I can assure you, because I've already had three. And if there will be self-tests that people can use at home, how can we register the number of tests and infections? Again we see that regular care is scaled down. Cancer specialists are alarming. The latest figures show that in October almost 20% fewer references were made to cancer centres for suspected skin, breast, lung and bowel cancers compared to last year. That could have ugly consequences, leading to premature death. How can the Minister actively call people to really go to the GP in case of complaints? I have something to say about this active attitude. I would like to endorse Mr Asscher's words in favour of a more active attitude towards the fight against loneliness. We also want to see more activity in the area of ventilation in nursing homes. We are still very concerned about that. In the answer to the written questions put by 50PLUS, we read that neither the Minister nor ActiZ can assess at which nursing homes the ventilation system is or is not in order. ActiZ responds to healthcare institutions that report, but 50PLUS would like nursing homes to be actively approached, especially the nursing homes that were built for 2012 and for which the old Building Decree existed. Finally, on staff shortages and the extra hands that are needed in health care right now. 50PLUS would consider it a good idea to write to former care workers together with pension funds to see if they would like to come back and help in this healthcare crisis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have just heard from Mr Segers that today is a thank you day. Let me start with a thank you: thank you to colleagues and to the cabinet, because yesterday my motion on the restaurants was adopted. And thank you very much to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Wiebes, who this morning in the media announced that he is already working on this. I hope you will pass that on to my colleague. From the e-mails I get, I notice that there is a lot of interest in that, precisely because it gives me a glimmer of hope. That's what's needed in this time of year. I agree with the questions about the regions that have been asked by several colleagues and which have also been asked by Mayor Bruls: is that not going to work as a waterbed and can you explain why you think that will benefit you? Like Mr Marijnissen, I have questions about the commercial tests. I understand there are two types: validated and non-validated. Users often don't know what type of test they get: validated or non-validated. In a validated test, if positive, the results are passed on to the GGD. But that too does not seem to happen in many cases. I called the G.D.D., and he says, "We're not a supervisor." Could you give me an explanation for that? Then test it. This week it became known that eleven players of Ajax were tested positive and later it turned out that this was only the case with five. I note that this greatly undermines the public's confidence. Can something be done about that? Finally. I just heard a plea for vitamin D, but that was about a different vitamin D than the vitamin D you buy at the drugstore. A lot of studies indicate that vitamin D would actually help. Is there anything known about this and could you say something about it? This would, in particular, greatly boost the immune system of the elderly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you, Mr President. The health bonus; the misery doesn't stop. I'm going to divide this into three topics. Firstly, the constant lack of clarity about who and who is not entitled to the health bonus. I have lots of examples. How is that possible? Minister Van Ark himself doesn't know it either, as is shown by the delay in answering Parliamentary questions. Does the Minister want to extend the deadline for the application and really start communicating clearly and unequivocally? Secondly, the refusal of health care providers, who insist that they do not apply for a health bonus forzzp's and flexworkers, because of too much red tape. There's gotta be another way. With the ggz dome at the ministry has been a good conversation. Ancillary institutions may use the estimation of the numbers. The technical details may be developed and supplied after the expiry of the deadline. Will the Minister make this appointment with all healthcare providers? Third. The caregivers work from a pgb, a personal budget. This is chaos, and the Minister knows it. Healthcare providers working at a pgb-funded institution are covered by this bonus scheme. For other pgb carers it is still a long time waiting for a separate directive. All this has been so uselessly communicated that many pgb caregivers who work through institutions are at risk of falling out of the boat. That is completely unfair. How's the Minister gonna fix this? Finally, Mr President, I would like to comment on the whole play that they are not getting any signals in the Ministry that one week of renewal is too short. On the website it says that you are probably not going to be called back in time for questions, because the phone is red-hot. But no, I'm fine. Allow the Minister to extend the application period until 30 November. No longer make a beautiful gesture a liability and an indirect insult. "Of course," the Prime Minister replied to my question as to whether anyone entitled to a health bonus should also receive it. Then get it done! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u67	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. Chairman. I've been asking questions about the PCR gate for six months now. I ask questions about the margin of error, about the fact that people who had corona six months ago still tested positive, about asymptomatic testing in hospitals and about increasing the number of cycles from 30 to 35 and sometimes even to 45. When is this minister going to answer? It is all about the reliability of the PCR test and I find it incomprehensible that as a Member of Parliament I am asking questions about this and never getting an answer. Can the Minister also explain why he still calls a positive PCR test an infection? Mr. Chairman. Then the capacity in care. Over the last ten years, the number of Ice Beds has been halved. In the last eight months, nothing has happened to scale up structurally. Mr Gommers even says that he does not want greater ic capacity, because people would be bored if there was no crisis. I find this really incomprehensible. We also have an army, and it's not a war right now, but if it's going to be war, at least we're prepared. Greater crisis capacity could also be regulated through the care reserves of Mr Wilders. Because if we're not prepared, the collateral damage is huge. The social, cultural, medical and economic collateral damage caused by a systematically unprepared cabinet is inconceivable. The cabinet was not only unprepared for the first wave, but is also completely unprepared for the second wave. 600 covid patients out of 17.5 million are relatively few. It is a testament of inability that this cabinet has really done nothing to increase capacity. The result is that our economy collapses, that 500,000 people from the catering industry are sitting at home crying. More than half will go bankrupt. Meanwhile they get company from people from cinemas, theatres, zoos and amusement parks. Hundreds of thousands of people in the entertainment industry can apply for a depressive benefit. Also, millions of elderly people unite for no reason and almost 1 million students in fact no longer receive decent education. They languish in their dorm room, also because they can't even go to the library anymore. 2 million entrepreneurs bear the heavy burden of this failing cabinet policy. I hope that all these people will vote at the Forum for Democracy on 17 March, so that we can do everything we can to clean up this mess. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a long suspension. That's why I suggest we suspend for an hour. Then we can also combine it with dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u70	I should like to give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u71	I think that is a good idea, but I would ask the cabinet to respond to a message that is just coming from Denmark. Research has shown that half of the infections in the north are related to mink. The Prime Minister there says, on the basis of that investigation, that it is very serious and can have disastrous consequences worldwide, because the virus mutates and then has been passed on to people. That is therefore very risky. I have tried to do so in writing, as President-in-Office of the Council has been there for two weeks and I have not yet seen it answered. Maybe the cabinet can take it with them in this term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u72	I am right in suggesting that we just do three interruptions in two with the Prime Minister. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. That's how we wanted to divide it. A lot of questions have been asked, but on a few themes. I will deal with the package last night and what may be regionally necessary and with a few other questions. In doing so, we shall divide Mr Asscher into two. I will answer his question about the learning disadvantages and Mr De Jonge's question about loneliness. Hugo de Jonge will continue to talk about strategy, including the possibilities in the future to carefully create some space, step by step away from all measures, and about testing and testing society. I don't know exactly in what order. Mrs Van Ark will answer all questions about hospitals, hospital capacity and possible spare capacity. Having said that, Mr President, I will make your request to us by trying to answer the questions as briefly as possible, so that we do not swallow up much more time than Members of Parliament. As a result of yesterday's package, questions were asked about working at home. I take these questions very much to heart. I can tell you that I have just had contact with Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs, and Eric Wiebes, the Minister for Economic Affairs. We are indeed very concerned about this. There were agreements with social partners scheduled for Monday and they are being brought forward to Friday. They will once again speak in depth with the social partners and say that there really must be visible improvements in reducing road traffic pressure as a result of commuting. Let me turn to the issue of measures. What we have done in principle is, for these two weeks, to choose the measures that also applied to the March package, if they are proven to be effective. Of course, after the March package, we had a whole lesson learning exercise this summer, which showed that the schools and the contact professions were less effective in the package of the intelligent lockdown of March and April. Against this background, I would like to address a few questions that have been raised. This means that the retail trade, the shops, can remain open. But, and then I come to a second point that we are concerned about, then we really need to maintain the door policy on everything that is necessary for the proper functioning of the retail trade. Eric Wiebes and Ferd Grapperhaus, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Justice and Security, have agreed to this with the retail trade. They will discuss this with the sectors in the shortest possible time. The one about door policy. The main issues we are trying to achieve are fewer travel movements, fewer contact moments and fewer movements in general. This means that we base ourselves on what we did in March and April. With regard to libraries, I can say that they may be open to collection. That will also apply now. The libraries open up to the so-called take-out function. Furthermore, once again, we based ourselves on what we did in March and on the lessons we learned from it. Then why two weeks? Maybe I will do the questions about the package that will come into effect tonight first. Why two weeks? That is because we see that in itself the figures are falling, which in itself is good, but not good enough, as I said yesterday. It's too slow. What we must achieve now is solidarity with the people in care, the people who work in care and the people with diseases other than corona who need care. By doing this for two weeks point, so with an automatic end, we can offer a slightly earlier perspective on what could be very careful afterwards. That will be about a week faster, towards mid-December, than if we didn't do this. We'll do that for two weeks. This probably leads, in the calculations, to 200 shots less in intensive care and 1,200 shots less in hospitals. Of course, there were also questions about the aid measures, including those of Mr Dijkhoff. These aid measures were the subject of a wide-ranging debate yesterday. It is indeed a breathing-along package. Yesterday, the Troika of Wiebes, Koolmees and Hoekstra, the Ministers for Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Finance, agreed on a number of points to come to the Chamber with further reports. A number of letters have been promised. I will not repeat those commitments. He knows the room. Within a few weeks the planning will be at the end of November, they will come up with more insight into what these measures mean and what it all means for the first two quarters of next year. I can go into that further, but that would be a bit of a repeat of yesterday. We are very aware of that. Mr Van der Staaij asked why he had deviated from the Roadmap. On the Roadmap, we are now in the toughest phase, namely that we are away from everything you can do at regional level. It is a guiding principle that provides insight and tries to give as much predictability as possible, but it is not a law or rule. We have to decide each time on the basis of specific situations. The extra package is for two weeks and no longer. Then we go back to the package of October 13th, the hammer, and that continues until mid-December. This is for two weeks. We have looked with particular care at the measures that contribute to limiting contacts and movements. Unfortunately, this also applies to funerals, where it is true that funerals will only take place on Monday, because of course funerals have already been organised on the basis of the old set-up. That is in response to the questions that were asked about what came up last night. Maybe two more brief questions. One: what can we learn, asked Mr Van der Staaij, from regions that are doing well. I would like to point out that conditions vary enormously between regions, rural, urban, population composition and economic. So you cannot simply transfer the experience from one region to another. The Security Council is the place where that comes together. One final question, also from Mr Van der Staaij: how do you take the broader perspective into consideration? That broader view is embedded in the whole decision-making process. It is weighted by proportionality. We are, of course, looking at the whole aspect of health, including the impact on hospitals, but also at the socio-economic and social effects and, of course, at what it means for compliance and enforcement, and at behaviour. Mr. Chairman. I imagine there's a round of questions. Next I come to the question of packages for the regions. I hope they're not necessary, but they're set up. I'm here to talk about that separately. And I come to a number of individual questions, including those about learning disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u74	I have Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Wilders. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u75	What many questions are about, in society, in the Chamber and at least in me, is the proportionality of the various measures. You can see that in retail the Primarks, the IKEAs and the Media markets can open, the big department stores. But the museums have to close. The Prime Minister says: we have based ourselves on the best practices this spring. What are the figures on which this is based?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u76	In spring, the OMT advised us on what to do. The entire retail sector, large or small, remained open and closed all kinds of other sectors. This summer there were lessons learned in relation to the contact professions and education. In any case, in mid-March there was a heated discussion about this and there was also doubt about the epidemiological impact of closing down education or its positive effects. But those were other reasons. The conclusion from the lessons learned was in all clarity that these effects were limited, but that the package as a whole worked well, of course also in a balance between all the interests that exist. I sometimes hear the question of what it means to the R if you close the libraries or pools or not. You can't calculate that like that. That is, of course, always in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u77	That's it. You cannot pinpoint that exactly, but that was the impression given by the Prime Minister in his reply: we have looked at what works. This spring, a lot of shops were just closed. That wasn't imposed by the government, but they closed themselves. So you really have to take that into account in how such a package works. Where my concern is now, that of all kinds of things that I think they were well arranged for the museum you have to buy a ticket in advance, you have a time lock and a route that you have to walk is said: that is not possible. But before we get involved in shopping between which sectors we do and which we do not, I would like to mention my two main concerns: the libraries and the community centers. They have an important social function. So that's not just about getting a book. I was at one of the neighborhoods here in our city, The Hague this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u79	The libraries, for example, are about the children who receive homework guidance there. All this happens under certain conditions: you have to register, you don't just come in. It is the point of contact where people with major problems can face relationship problems, problems with money and debts. If you close that down, it's gonna have a huge social impact. That is why I asked the cabinet to reconsider that. The Prime Minister didn't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'd like to reconsider everything. I would also like to have the cafés and restaurants open tomorrow and keep the community centers open tonight, but I can't. I fully agree with the enormous importance of community centers and libraries. No second of doubt about that and no millimeter difference of opinion between Mr Klaver and me. But they are places where many people come together, which causes many travel movements and many contact moments. That's just a fact. So you really have to make the choice to close down many of these kinds of locations. I would add that libraries, as in March, can remain open to the collection of books. I very much agree with what Mr Klaver said about this social function, but that social function also brings with it many contacts and travel movements. That is where the problem lies. We in the Netherlands really have a big problem in health care and we need to get it under control by making this extra effort now in the next two weeks. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u81	I think this is a weird reason. For example, real travel movements are caused by the Primark, where people from far and wide come to shop there. The same applies to IKEA. The people go from where they all live to that central place. A district center is located in the district. It's visited by people who live in that neighborhood and go there. For a visit to the central library you often have to make a big trip, but the library in the district is aimed at the people who live there. It doesn't attract people outside the neighborhood. You live in The Hague. When was the last time you went to a library in Barneveld? That's not gonna happen. It's very local. As a result, no additional travel movements are caused. That is why I have such an objection: firstly, there is the social and social impact and secondly, it is not going to reduce travel movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u82	Of course, this also applies to the neighborhood café or the neighborhood bar that is closed. This also applies to shops, if they were to close, which have a large part of the neighbourhood function. In the case of contact professions, we see that this is different. In case of contact appeals you can commit triage on entry; then you can ask if there are any complaints. There you can see that the number of infections is limited. Unfortunately, however, we must really choose to limit this type of travel as much as possible. These kind of neighbourhood functions are extremely important, but we do not think it wise to keep them open for two weeks, because that leads to additional movements again. We have of course looked at all kinds of alternatives, but in the end we have said: let us now stay as close as possible to the lessons learned from March. So education is open, but further about as in March and, again, the contact professions are also open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u83	So far, since the start of the corona crisis, I have been reluctant to take all kinds of measures. There have been critical questions, but I did not say: reconsider. 'Cause what do you get? Then we'll all go shopping in what's personally important to us. There's something else going on here, and I don't think the comparison between a neighbourhood center and a neighborhood bar is going to go away. When I was there this morning, I asked what kind of people are coming to you? They are talking, for example, about people with relationship problems, which can also be accompanied by violence. Then that is a very easy way to ensure that intervention can be taken in such a family. So I'm talking about social functions here. And if we really want to take the protection of vulnerable people seriously together, then you need those libraries and those neighbourhood centres in adapted form, because that cannot be done in a way that is always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yes, but individual assistance will always be possible. This will always be possible, including in the medical institutions and so on. Guys, I'm fine with keeping everything open, okay? You could do that, and you could take down the package we've made right now and get things out of it. But I do not think that is wise, and I would argue against it with some firmness, because we have an interest in reducing the number of travel movements over the next two weeks. I'm terribly sorry, but look at the health care. One more fact: it is said "that peak is still much less high than in March and April and what are you so worried about" No, that wasn't Mr Klaver, but that's what you hear back in society, but the surface below the peak is much bigger, because it goes up and down much more like a false flat. At the moment, care is already burdened much more heavily than in March and April, perhaps up to one and a half times. This is, of course, over a longer period of time, but at present 20%, 30% or 40% of planned operations are already being scaled down. I also think it is good to get things out of it, but in the end I am not okay with it, because it is at the expense of this great importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u85	First of all, there were two questions that were related to this subject, on which I have not yet heard the answer. So I don't know if I'm gonna interrupt on that or if it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u86	I just need a...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u87	I had asked to comment on whether it would not have been better to do this earlier, because I also argued in favour of it. The second question I had asked was: is there now a choice for containment if the infections are low? I assume the Prime Minister wanted to answer that and then I can ask a question afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u88	Well, the strategy is well known. The ambition is to sit again at a level of less than 35 infections per week. That was 50, but the ambition is actually 35 infections per week, per 100,000 people. That's 1,200 a day, or 7 per 100,000. Under 35 infections per week, you go back to the strategy of stomping where problems occur. Then the entire BCO research is also possible again. Let me now turn to your comment on the speed of action. We have, of course, discussed this with each other a few times. I also said that the package we made in the middle of September for those six to eight regions was not heavy enough. It was on time, but not heavy enough. I believe that what we did afterwards was. The package of 28 September was there before we knew for sure whether it was doing enough earlier. But on the basis of the first indicators and underlying secondary figures, such as travel movements and so on, we said: we are not sufficiently sure. And then we immediately got over it with the package of October 13th. That was circumstantial and therefore not based on the hard facts, because we didn't have them at the time because it was too soon after September 28th. Now we come up with this package. I am not proud to say that we were the first in Europe, but I would say that we have intervened on such a large scale. Unfortunately, the whole of Europe is doing this now. I think Spain was similar in a number of regions, but we were almost the first in Europe to do so. And luckily, you're seeing the contagion dropping a little bit. So yes, the criticism was right that we should have made greater use of regional measures in September. Mr Asscher and I have had this debate a few times, and that is a valid point. But I insist that I believe that after that we did what we had to do, every time we saw that more was needed and often even earlier than we knew for sure what the situation was. And that was always based on in-depth advice from our epidemiological and virological experts in the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u89	The last time we had that debate, the Prime Minister wasn't so elite in it. Look, it's the logic of policy that matters to me. Sometimes it's hard to follow, and I'd hope we learn along the way. There is no doubt that it is difficult. It is difficult for all countries, including this cabinet. But it is logical that it saves severely sick people if you reduce the number of infections more quickly. The Prime Minister said it himself: 200 ic recordings..... and it is logical that so many possible deaths and people who have to stay out of work for a long time should be saved. And it makes sense that it can also restore confidence in the economy sooner. And that logic, of course, was already there. My question is therefore purely about whether, from now on, we can leave behind this false contradiction between economics and health, which is so often outlined here. If we have to believe the reconstructions, they sometimes come up in the cabinet. Can we make it clear that the infections must be reduced as quickly as possible and that we must then contain them? The Prime Minister does not quite reassure me yet when he says that we are going to do exactly what we did again, because that did not go well in August, not only in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u90	On that first point, however, I do not agree with Mr Asscher. That would give the impression that we did not do what was necessary when it was necessary. Again, mid-September we should have done more. We've had that discussion before. He's just got a point there. We weren't late, but those regional packages should have been firmer. Then there was the package of September 28th. Even before we really knew if it was working, we said on the basis of secondary signals: we're gonna do more, we're gonna get the big hammer. Now we see in itself that the great deflection is beginning to come, but based on what you can now see from the sum of those earlier packages, you see what that means in terms of transit. It may just be acceptable, but you can speed it up for a week. But more importantly, by taking these two weeks of extra measures, you can do more in healthcare. That would give the impression that we have done too little before, or at least on the basis of information that we should have done more then. I insist that's not true. That was the case in mid-September, but not on September 28th and certainly not October 13th. We are doing this now on the basis of the insights we have now. Last week, in the debate, I explicitly asked myself this question and showed the Chamber on the basis of which we are steering. Is the bend gradually visible? Yeah, but it's still a slow turn. An even more important advantage of additional intervention is the effect on care capacity and the slightly accelerating effects of the package of 13 October. You couldn't actually see that until the last few days, last weekend. Then the cabinet. Yeah, there's discussion in that cabinet. Oh, thank God. But that doesn't lead to delays. We had a big debate on Sunday. We had a big discussion yesterday. But last night's planned press release, the launch of the measures tonight, was not delayed for a minute by that discussion. But that discussion is essential, because it is about huge interests that you have to discuss with each other in a cabinet, in a good atmosphere, but in all intensity. That is not the economy versus health care. Hugo de Jonge, Tamara van Ark, myself, Ferd Grapperhaus, we are absolutely well aware of the importance of the economy and also of the wider societal impact. Wopke Hoekstra, Eric Wiebes, Wouter Koolmees and others are well aware of the consequences for the care. But I'm glad you're looking at each other in a weighting which, based on the numbers, is the most sensible thing to do. The fact that it comes out is inevitable, because Mr Asscher and I know it all comes out in The Hague. I almost wish there'd been a camera in there. People would then have seen that there are people sitting at the table who, from absolutely substantive discussion, not from party politics or other political interest but from the content, in all intensity who discuss themes and come to joint conclusions. I'm proud of that, too. I'd rather have the cabinet with a little yawn say, "Well, De Jonge and Rutte, do whatever you were planning." No, discussion, talk, do it again and don't compromise. That didn't happen here either. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u91	I still think it's different. 28 September advised the OMT to do more than the cabinet did. Then the OMT advised to aim at 0.8. The cabinet said, no, we're aiming at exactly 0.9. I warned against this in the debate. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver did the same. You take a risk that you won't make it, which has been proven by now, and so you spend longer in that situation and more people get sick. It's not so much about looking back. That's always easy. We all realize that. I mean that sincerely. I am concerned, however, that if the Prime Minister says that they have done exactly the right thing, except for the one moment in September, I have less confidence that is being learned now. The nasty and nasty consequence of the virus is that you need to get it under control quickly. There will be fewer sick people, and that will be better for the economy. That's why I'm hammering on that. It gives me little confidence when the Prime Minister says that we actually did it perfectly. Why was the Netherlands the first to take such violent measures? Because the Netherlands was the worst in the world. It went up here faster than anywhere else. We defeated Trump's America in the number of infections during that period. I don't think that's something to be proud of, but to learn from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u92	The discussion is not: is it done perfectly? I'm not saying that. Mr Asscher does not say that. The discussion is also not: is it done well? The discussion is: have you always taken the measures that were sensible at that time on the basis of the information that was available? I'm holding on: yes. Then you look at the effects, also based on the virological and epidemiological advice we receive. Then at some point you have to find that more is needed from the precautionary principle, even if you do not yet have all the figures and all the insights. We haven't taken all the measures literally from the OMT either, but we have always brought the packages here, and towards the country, which, on balance, did what the OMT considers important. So there is no question of me saying here that everything is going perfectly. If more is needed later, then you have to see that reality eventually develops something different from what we had expected from the insights at the time. Then you're gonna have to get back to it. That's part of a crisis like this. A health crisis like this requires us to keep adjusting. What we are doing now is partly as a precautionary measure but partly also in view of solidarity with the people in care and the people who need non-corona care from care. That is why we have said: we are now making this extra effort and this extra effort for two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u93	Finally, at this point, because at some point you won't get into a conversation like this. When the OMT said "do something more" and the cabinet didn't do it, that goes without saying, with the best intentions done, but that does affect the amount of contamination and the speed with which you control it. I think that is also true of the reaction in August and mid-September, when we went through the critical signal value. But it also applies to last week when I said: shouldn't you do something faster to reduce the number of infections? Then the Prime Minister's argument was: yes, the peak stays the same. But even then you could see that there was a huge problem in the care, a problem that makes a lot of people sick, that causes a lot of collateral damage to people with other diseases and that has a very big impact on the economy. Apart from the past, the roadmap now mainly describes the route that has been taken instead of what you will do if things go wrong. My question is this: on the way to the level of contamination we want to reach, do you want to create a strategy that really focuses on containment? In addition, you have to prevent the number of infections from getting back above 35. I ask you to do that instead of reacting like some sort of automatism to higher infections. That would be my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u94	One more time last week, because that is an important point. Yeah, it's true that where the package is taking the turn, you still don't know exactly what size you're going to drop something below that 0.9. And getting below that 0.9 is what you'd like. If that's about the case, you can't influence the peak or the moment of the peak. But I didn't say for nothing last week: there is a second question to ask. This raises the question of what it means for the overall burden of care and the length of the period during which those measures should apply in order to at least return to a slightly acceptable level. Then I am not even talking about the level of the first box of the roadmap, but about the second box: ten ic-records per day. That's about 3,600 infections a day. Of course, that's much higher than you'd like, but at least that's when you're breaking through that value. That is precisely why we said last week: we are going to answer that question on the basis of the latest figures. That is what has happened now, and that is why we are coming up with this package. So I really insist that we have not been unnecessarily delaying there. I do agree with Asscher that in practice, of course, you must always adjust on the basis of how reality ultimately relates to the assumptions you make when you take action. But that's part of a health care crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u96	Sorry, Chairman. There is the second point on the strategy. What we are doing is making sure that we control the virus as much as possible whatever stage of the epidemic we are in. That's the strategy. The objectives are to protect care and people with vulnerable health, and to this end also to keep an eye on the virus. This means that we must ensure that when the virus is in danger of re-emerging, we take all measures to ensure that that virus is contained at that time. So where it pops up, damn it! Over the past few weeks and months, you have seen across Europe that the weather has risen much faster than we thought. Yes, Asscher is right that the Netherlands was one of the first. But then you see in England, Belgium, France, Spain, Austria, the Czech Republic and now even in Hungary that it can happen very quickly. To some extent it is also the case in Germany, because that is where we are at some 16,000 infections a day. That's what we need to learn from. That's what I'm telling him, because that's what you have to learn from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u97	Let's get back to this point. Two questions: when do you intervene and what do you do? First thing first. The Prime Minister says: there is, of course, discussion within the cabinet, just as there is discussion in our group or our family app. Why are you doing this and why are you doing that? That discussion is very logical, but can we perhaps make it easier for ourselves to have a clear picture of what we are sending out? The Prime Minister is now saying that it's containment, really diluting fires and controlling them to the maximum, but wouldn't you intervene sooner than when you're looking primarily at the care? That is an after-life effect. If care is delayed and if more beds are occupied, it is more a consequence of what happens than of what you primarily steer. When you say that containment, extinction or maximum control is the primary goal, through which society can proceed as far as possible in these circumstances, do you not intervene before when you look primarily at the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u98	That's why you don't look at care. The concern is, in fact, crazyly a derivative; Mr Segers is right about that. You're looking at your strategy. That's right: the maximum control of the virus. That means you have to make sure you contain the virus if it threatens to turn up somewhere, you are back in the first class and there are 1,200 infections per day, 7 per 100,000, 35 per week and 3 ic-records per day. That is what the road map is designed for. In the meantime, we are a few more subjects. We are at far too many infections throughout Europe and certainly also in the Netherlands. Here it starts to bend a bit, but we are at a much too high number of infections a day and therefore also in total. At that point you have to make sure that you take much more intense measures to push it down again. These are the measures that will lead to a further reduction in social traffic, as I have outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u99	I understand that it's not entirely mathematical and that it's asking for an assessment and a weighting somewhere. But if we look back with the wisdom of today, we can see that it could have been harder in September, that we could have intervened more firmly. The Prime Minister says that very chivalrous. We've all been there and found something. But if it's clear what you're sending on, you can intervene sooner. My second question is, what do you do? Even now you can see that we are going to talk again in casuistics: what are we doing with libraries and funerals? If that roadmap is required to be predictable and clear, we know when we are going from one stage to another and then it is clear which package is included. I am a little surprised that there has been some shopping from the different stages. More stringent measures have been taken than those of the lockdown phase, but there is also a combination of measures from two phases earlier. This, of course, leads to discussion, up to and including this. Couldn't you prevent that by holding on tighter to the road map?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u100	The roadmap is your guideline. We've chosen for two weeks. So it also stops after two weeks. We're not gonna look at the effects to see if we can stop. No, it stops after two weeks. You do that because you know that in itself there are indications that the package, the hammer, is starting to get effect. But on top of that, you want an extra gear. That's what you do for two weeks. Apart from that, we have to keep checking whether the package of 13 October is doing enough. That goes on until December 15th. If necessary, it can always lead to small adjustments. But you're doing this for two weeks. The Roadmap did not foresee such a two-week acceleration. We have said: what do we really have on the table of hard data from what works? That is the success of March/April minus what did not work, namely education and contact professions. That is why we have said that we base ourselves on the March/April package, roughly, or even more than roughly, for most of the time, it is never quite literally and precisely from a to a. Those were the lessons learned from this summer. It has also been called upon by the Chamber to do so. The Roadmap does not provide for this at the moment. It didn't foresee what you'd do if you wanted to speed up two weeks, on top of an existing package. That is why we have said: we base ourselves on the lessons that we can draw from March/April.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u101	One final question on this point. Still, just for the accuracy. I get that gear, and more than that: I support that gear. In fact, I think it is necessary to shorten the braking path, to speed up the descent and to reach a level that you would like to reach. What the Chamber has often asked for and what the Cabinet has provided for is a road map with a certain kind of logic that leads a certain level of contamination and a certain pressure on care to certain measures. Now you see a combination of different measures from different packages. I don't quite understand. This ultimately leads to a discussion of the case: why the libraries and why weddings?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u102	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u103	That leads to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u104	However, the roadmap did not provide for this. The Roadmap did not provide for you to say at some point: we have this now, but in it, based on insights into how the figures are developing, including the slightly longer term for health care and the speed with which the effect becomes visible, we need to encourage a two-week strengthening. The Roadmap did not provide for this. So we said: what can you learn from March/April? That's why we chose to do this. At the core it is always about limiting travel movements and limiting contact moments. Because you know that this reduces the risk of the virus jumping over. But I get that. Perhaps in the next phase, if we are to learn lessons again, we will of course continue to draw lessons from what we are doing in the future, as we did in the summer, to see if we still need to provide for a separate piece of what to do in the roadmap if you want to speed up for a few weeks. But that was not yet foreseen in the Roadmap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u105	I'd like to discuss the issue of funerals. I heard the Prime Minister right. He said that the Roadmap is not a law of Medes and Persians and that you should be able to deviate from it. He also indicated that he had looked very much at what was working in March. But it was precisely at the time of the funerals that I thought the lesson was in March. I also heard the Minister of Health say something like that once, that the policy was very important. You can postpone a trip to a zoo or an amusement park, but a funeral cannot be repeated. It meant that families had to choose who could be at Grandpa's or Grandma's farewell. That is why the line was chosen: when we have measures again around the funeral, we go back to a maximum of 100 inside and 250 outside. My question is simply: why didn't it stop there? I've been studying the documents. I would have caught the rule if I had seen that there was a huge peak at funerals at once. But I do not see that this is the case, not even in the weekly figures of the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u106	On that second point, then I come to the main point. Of course, I often hear people say: yes, but we have done well in the museums. That's right. In the cafés and restaurants it is also well arranged. The theatres and cinemas are well organized. The library is well organized. The problem is that where a large proportion of the infections take place at work or at home, those infections do occur somewhere, especially when they occur at home. It has to do with where you can trace the primary source. That can't always be traced back exactly. By the way, at the moment, with the very large number of infections in the Netherlands, that is difficult anyway. At the moment you are on an enormous number of infected people in the Netherlands. It's really, really high. It's dangerously high. That is why we have said the following. There's such a high level of contamination. We had already asked so many institutions to limit themselves to 30 people, and even that cannot be done now. We ask museums and everything to close down. And we have a very high level of contamination. Then it is not justified to have 100 people at a funeral. I'm sorry. The next few days, because they were already organized sometimes, but it is too big a risk. It leads to more travel movements, it leads to more contact moments. That's really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u107	That whole general story, I think. That's what I heard, and I think that's convincing. But we're not in the first wave anymore, we're in the second wave. You also saw in the Corona Act that the Chamber is going to look more critically at the measures taken by the government and want to hear more clearly how the consideration was made and what the added value is, with the fight against virus on the one hand and the impact on life on the other. On the basis of this balance, the cabinet says that the schools can continue, that sometimes 1,000 people can go to the construction market, but that at a funeral the whole family cannot be at the farewell of grandma or grandma. I don't understand. I don't understand that trade-off. I'm still stuck in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u108	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u109	But are there any other arguments with which the Prime Minister can convince me? Are there figures and facts that we don't know and that make things very different when we do know them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u110	1 in 100 people in the Netherlands is now contagious, Mr. Van der Staaij. That's a huge number. 30 people could have been in all kinds of locations. That's back to 0, we don't do anything there anymore. Then you can't say, no matter how bad it is, that at funerals, funerals, 100 people can come, with all the risks it entails, if 100 people come together who all have to go there, who all run the risk of running into each other, while the whole of the Netherlands goes back to zero, except for two guests inside or outside of the streaming site? Maybe I won't convince Mr Van der Staaij. But if we have to take additional measures in the next two weeks because of major health problems, I think it is understandable that it is really unwise to take the risk of 100 people - 100 people! Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That is not wise, however much I understand that such a measure has a huge impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u111	Finally. Again, I understand that general reasoning. But more specifically, the cabinet says it is very important that schools, where ten times as many infections as they do at funerals, can continue. Then I say: why not make that argument for those funerals, such a special situation in life?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u112	But that's the reasoning for everything, isn't it? Look, you always make a decision in the end. It's never exactly cut; let me put that first. It's not like we have some brilliant template: if we do this, we can put another R on it. It's out of the question. That's not how it works. Maybe we don't agree on it today, but I really do feel that with such a high number of infectious people in the Netherlands, again, what is it: 160,000, 1 in 100 people throughout the Netherlands will limit the number of contacts and travel movements for two weeks. I really don't think it's wise to say that at funerals 100 people are allowed to meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u113	I do not just want to talk about the measures. Of course we must talk about this, but also about why the cabinet is taking the measures it intends to take or has already taken. It's not just about the virus or the people who wouldn't have followed the rules. It's also about the fact that hospital care is overflowing, can't handle it anymore. That is again because far too little has been done about it by let me call it the care-sickness. You can use several words for it... from the cabinet and perhaps the VVD in particular, which has made sure that from all sides there has been nibbling and cutting down despite rising spending on care. This is also one of the reasons why you must now all take freedom-limiting measures. Let me give you two examples: I mentioned them in my term. One. During this crisis, the cabinet scaled up with 200 intensivecare beds and 400 clinical beds. So, what's going on? The cabinet has already said: when the crisis is over, we will remove this scaling-up immediately. Right away, get in the trash bin with those beds, with those ICU beds and those clinical beds, gone. A second example is that the cabinet intends to lift 28 emergency services. You're not gonna think it's possible: lift 28 emergency rooms. I ask the cabinet: do something about self-reflection. What have you learned from this crisis? You should have learned that you need to get rid of that carelessness in the past, that we need to invest more in care rather than less. You're doing exactly the opposite. You're gonna turn that scaling back, you're gonna turn emergency stations around. What have you learned from this crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u114	I found Mr Wilders' contribution in his first term more constructive, but let me also answer this somewhat more offensive tone. That can also be done in a debate. Our health care is one of the best in the world. I am incredibly proud that we have it in the Netherlands, after Sweden probably the number two world's best health care. That's not because of Mr. Wilders or me. This is because of the 1.3 million people who work there, from low to high, both in health care and support, patient transportation, cleaning and so on. Of course, in a pandemic of this magnitude, you are advised worldwide, in addition to protecting people with vulnerable health and the elderly, to do everything in your power to ensure that the care system can handle it. Because what is the difference between a pandemic like this and, for example, as he mentioned, a terrible attack, which you do not hope will happen, or a chemical disaster? These are happy, with all the misery and disasters that emerge, short-term health crises. The Dutch healthcare system is well equipped for that in itself. It is much more difficult to organize the buffer capacity if it goes on for so long. This is, of course, something that goes on for a very long time. That's what you see in these months. Mr Wilders has also made a number of suggestions for this, which I think we should think further together. Mrs Van Ark will look into this in a moment, and I think they were constructive. But that would be my substantive answer to his somewhat firmer interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u115	Criticism of the cabinet is not necessarily constructive. Surely it cannot be that the Prime Minister does not call an attack on his policy constructive? I am standing before our electorate and I should be allowed to criticize you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u116	It's okay, but he's just not constructive in my view by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u117	No, but that doesn't mean it doesn't have to be constructive for the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u118	Sure, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u119	Let me give you another example, because I insist that I find it incredible. There's a reason we got into this crisis. That is because of the efficiency in the care, the carelessness that I call it: ensuring that it all succeeds on the edge and does not actually succeed, because the care simply cannot handle it. It's like having a table. If you hit that, it should remain normal, but our care system is so furnished that that table almost collapses with one blow. We can't have that with each other. That's because we don't invest enough in it. What else do you intend to do in the future? That's just in the Health budget for next year. You want to scale down 50% of healthcare institutions by 2030. You call that a "neighborhood network." You come up with billions of savings by cutting into 50% of healthcare institutions. It just says on pages 14 and 15 of the Social Affairs budget: we want 50% more of the care in the environment to be organised in 2030 rather than in the healthcare institutions. That just means there's gonna be more hospitals, nursing homes... it's really there! We have asked questions about this, including questions of fact. The answer is that that's right. Ask Madam Secretary. So I'm gonna ask you again. We should not just look at tomorrow's measures. We should also look at the day after tomorrow and the days after that. That'll be worth a sweet thing to me. This is meant constructively to the concern and to my constituents. It's not even a non-constructive approach to you, because I'm trying to trick you into getting rid of the cuts in health care, at least not investing enough in health care and making sure that in the future more money is spent not just on the money you're already spending on it, so that we don't have to close those emergency services in the country, so that we can open up hospitals again, so that we can get more staff, so that we don't cut down on those institutions, so that care for people is good and in the long term we can deal with a next crisis, so that normal aid, which is now being scaled down, doesn't have to be scaled down in another crisis. What's not constructive about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u120	That is all constructive, but it is three different discussions. One discussion is about the future of health care. Indeed, we want loving care and if possible close to home. This means that you look again at the division of tasks between the GP plus plus, the one and a half care, the hospital, etc. That is a longer-term discussion. That doesn't even have to do with costs, because costs are rising anyway. They're going up like hell. Also in this cabinet period billions and billions and billions will be added for health care. There is another problem, namely that with this high cost increase you have to keep an eye on how to prevent it from being at the expense of other expenses, such as education, defence or the police. But it's just a fact: health care is precious, but it's also precious to all of us. That's one discussion, but it's about the longer term. There's a really more complicated story than closing down hospitals. It's not that simple. Basically, you try to organize that care well and in a smart way close to people. Let's get back to this debate. In addition, Wilders has two sensible things to do. At least I hear two different things in that. On the one hand, what are you doing in case of what I just mentioned, disasters or attacks? In our opinion, this is what our healthcare system is well equipped for. But he's cutting something else, which is, how do you deal with a pandemic? What lessons can you draw from this pandemic? This applies worldwide, not only throughout Europe but also in the Netherlands. He's right about that. So we need to look at what else is needed for long-term crisis care in the future. It's gotta be robust. It's gotta be firm so we can get through a crisis like this. So we need to learn lessons from this crisis. By the way, I don't think you should put 20,000 people somewhere waiting for a crisis to come. I don't think that's a good idea. I don't think anyone wants a job like that either. I do not know whether Mr Wilders is proposing this, but it is sometimes suggested. I'm not saying that he thinks that he looks a little irritated, but you sometimes read in proposals "set it up" et cetera, like it's a defense organization that's not in the middle of a war. I don't think that's how it works. What you can do is look for a more flexible staff deployment. How can you ensure new forms of cooperation? How can you ensure better information exchange? How can you provide new forms of care? How can you ensure that digital care also makes a maximum contribution? How can you ensure that your ic and bed capacity can quickly scale up, even for a long time, if necessary? I agree with Mr Wilders that these are all questions that we have to look at with each other. This also applies to the whole question of stocks of personal protective equipment. On all these points, he and I agree. That is really one of the lessons that we have to learn worldwide, but that is not what we are here for; we are here for the Netherlands and for the Netherlands we have to pull out of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u121	We have to talk about the long term, the cuts and the removal of hospitals and emergency services some other time. Now I want to talk about what the Prime Minister says about what I call the national healthcare reserve we need. Look, those aren't permanent jobs. We also have a national reserve in the Netherlands at Defense. These are a few thousand people who do not have it as a job, but who receive training or training once a year and can then be used in the event of disasters. That's what I'm looking for with the national care reserve. We can argue about the number of people, resources, medicines and hospitals, but at least we have a number of people. Those are former nurses, Mr. Prime Minister, with a BIG registration...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u122	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u123	... which receive training once a year. They don't work in care anymore. They're retired sometimes, they do different jobs sometimes, but if they need to, they can be called in and then they can do something at another pandemic. Very important is that this is separate from the column of regular care. That is the advantage: if you call them and do so in a separate column, then the regular care does not need to be scaled down. So those aren't people who get a job like that. That's just a spare you have. Once again, you can argue about how many people that will become, but they will be given further training and you can use it if necessary. That's a nice idea, isn't it? It would be nice if you would at least be willing to examine this proposal, but perhaps there are others, for one serious reason, to see if it will cut wood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u124	The answer is yes. I think it's a nice idea, too. Only, we need to look at this in the light of what lessons you can draw from this pandemic for the longer term and what structural solutions are needed. This is absolutely a conceivable part of such a solution. We will have to see how many people you can activate and deploy quickly enough and how that relates to the need to scale up the ic capacity. We are doing this now by creating 200 extra places. In April we could even grow to 1,600, 1,700. Of course, that was at the expense of a lot of other work in hospitals; you also want normal care to continue as much as possible. So in this whole combination of what lessons you can draw and what is needed in the case of such a long-term pandemic, I think this is a constructive idea that we are absolutely involved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr Jetten and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u126	Due to the high numbers of infections, especially in Rotterdam, Dordrecht and Twente, and due to the enormous pressure on the care, everyone understands that the cabinet has decided to kick that brake even harder and to come up with additional measures. But the whole Chamber has also asked for months to come up with a more predictable approach in order to maintain support for the measures in society. I myself have received quite a lot of messages over the last few days from people who said: we did feel that something was going to happen at that press conference, so we took the road map to find out what was coming to us. People who organized their wedding for next week said: according to the roadmap, in the lockdown situation I can still invite 30 people to my wedding, so the invitations have gone out. So people are surprised when that number suddenly falls from 30 to 20 in the press conference, which was not announced anywhere in that roadmap. Does the Prime Minister understand that a predictable approach is really necessary, because that virus will be among us for months to come, and that people do not want to be surprised at a press conference but want to be able to predict what is coming from it on the basis of the number of infections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u127	That is actually the discussion I just had with Mr Van der Staaij. But Mr Jetten is right: that roadmap does provide for a kind of level 1 and 2, a partial lockdown and a virtually complete lockdown, but not the following. Suppose you have such a partial lockdown, what should you do in terms of extra measures if you want to give an extra boost? We said, "Let's look at what worked in March." What brought us the most? So this predictability is not sufficient. So we will continue to learn lessons, because the bad news is that somewhere in the next few months there is something happening with that virus that we say: oops, that the virus hadn't told us, we couldn't foresee. But this really is one; this is such a lesson learned. So we need to see if we can include anything in the roadmap so that we can speed up the level of contamination within it. Therefore, we must also learn the lessons from these two weeks. So we have to get what it's gotten us out of first. Is it true what we expected? On this basis, we can add more predictability to the roadmap. Mr Jetten is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u128	It is, of course, always good to continue to draw those lessons and refine the approach. But just in the interrupting debate with Mr Klaver, the Prime Minister said: we looked at the impact of this in March. Quite frankly, I did not hear in the press conference, not in the letter, but not in the debate tonight, what exactly is the expected effect of closing the theatres, museums and libraries. Because the Prime Minister is talking about restricting contacts and movements and that he wants to keep places where triage is possible as open as possible; hence the contact professions. But I've been in the theater once myself for the past month and a few times in a store. In that theater you have to reserve, there is triage at the front door, you get a fixed seat and you don't get in touch with anyone. Go to a grocery store or an average clothing store; that's a lot harder. The Prime Minister has also said that this will take two weeks and that it will stop after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u130	I think that is a very good signal to the sectors that are now affected by this additional brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u132	But could the Prime Minister take us back into what is the expected effect on the number of infections caused by the closure of these cultural institutions and libraries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u133	Yes, of course within bandwidths, but what you can see in any case... lessons learned this summer... is that at least two things in the March and April package didn't work as well: the schools closed and the contact professions closed. So we told you not to do that. Furthermore, that package worked very well, but of course always in the circumstances of that moment: the incredible fear in society at the end of March for the virus and the fact that we didn't see a lot of the iceberg, because at that time we simply didn't know how many infections there were. You couldn't see that until later when you saw that huge spike. At some point there were days when 135 people were admitted to the ICUs. From my point of view, I say that the peak on the ic's was almost 1,300, with about 50 more people in Germany. That was all horrible. Then you get a little insight into how big that whole mountain of infections is. But, of course, we learned lessons from that. In those lessons learned this summer it was concluded that they did not produce the greatest effects. We've had suspicions about that before. That is why we had already released the contact professions before, already earlier in the roadmap back to some expansion, in May, of course also on the basis of the advice of the OMT. In a more general sense, you must, of course, achieve in a sum that you limit those travel movements and contacts as much as possible. There are some very nasty things, such as the libraries. Yes, of course you can also decide to close the entire retail sector; that can always be done, but that is also extremely complex, because then you have to distinguish between essential shops and non-essential shops. This may be the case in a few regions where things are not going well enough, but we have tried to base ourselves on what we know now. What are the hard evidence and the hard facts we have? They're from March and April.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u134	That remains a very annoying message for the museums and the theatres...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u135	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u136	...who have taken all these measures to be able to open up safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u137	May I interrupt you for a moment? The same applies to the cafés and restaurants. They had done the same and they had to close it, not because they didn't do well but because of the sum of that movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u138	Yes, but I think it is very good to stress this: it is not because that sector has not done well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u139	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u140	... but because we have to get those infections down in a wider package. I would like to ask specifically about the libraries. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has just promised that the lending of books will still be possible, because reading is important for children, but also to keep the lockdown a little bearable for everyone. But in March and April, libraries were also allowed to remain open to the well-known vulnerable from the neighbourhood, so people they know are very lonely or children they know are in a really unsafe situation at home and have their homework guidance in the library.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u141	I'm gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u142	I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u143	I'm gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u144	Because it would be nice if the libraries could not only lend out, but also for those vulnerable...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u145	Our intention is to do it as much as possible in a similar way. Maybe it had something to do with the fact that the schools were closed then, but now I'm going to improvise. I shall return to this point by Mr Jetten in the second term. I'm gonna ask the government to listen to me. I'm sure they did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u146	What you've been seeing here all night is that all kinds of measures are being highlighted again. One asks about the neighborhoods and the other asks about the funerals. We find it annoying that the hope was that there would be one perspective when we presented that roadmap. We did not hear much of that at the press conference bar, but that there would be clarity. Now you see there isn't one. I believe that this is because the cabinet is using the roadmap more as a menu at least at the moment and that things are chosen from it. In my view, then, you will provoke the Chamber to ask all kinds of questions about different measures. The question I would like to add is a question about the importance of the economy. Several other groups have already asked for this. It remains very complicated to explain that the community centre should be closed, while the toy store may remain open next to it, with all the conditions that have already been mentioned. To what extent does the economic motive play a concrete role here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u147	That is not to say exactly, because it is always a total balance between social impacts and economic effects. But overriding, primarily, is first of all about the impact on health care and in this case on reducing the number of infections. There is always a balance sheet, with the retail sector also having to comply with all the requirements. The enforcement agreements that Wiebes and Grapperhaus have made, we will now also accelerate their transformation into action. They know a location can be closed if it doesn't meet the requirements. This also applies to offices where outbreaks occur, where high numbers of infections occur because there are insufficient hygiene measures. They can be closed for two weeks. That's all true. So it's always a balance between all the things you do. We also want to return to the first course in this road map. We are now in the extreme box, on the right from Mrs Marijnissen, and we want to go back to the box all the way to the left in the road map. We are now on the right side of the road map, but we want to be in the road map all the way to the left, with 1,200 infections and 3 ic recordings a day. That way, you'll have a bit of a look at "you can do something again." By the way, you have to learn lessons from the period May/June. We then expanded things, which you should say afterwards, which apparently made us feel all over Europe and certainly also in the Netherlands: everything can be done again! That was not the intention at all, because the main rules of course continued to apply: 1.5 meters, washing your hands, staying at home with complaints, getting tested and with fever, the whole family stays at home. Of course that was still true, but still there is a feeling in the Netherlands of: hey, we might be done with it. But it wasn't. It's still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u148	I think it remains complicated to explain the example I mentioned, namely that the community centre should be closed and not the toy store next door. What I believe was also involved is the point we made at the beginning of this debate. We had to read in the newspaper that there would be a piece on the table that would come from three different ministries, in which it was simply hard to say that you could take tougher measures which you would take if you did indeed send for as few infections as possible; so the question is why we should not do so, but that there is also an economic interest behind it. Of course, that is what is behind it, and that is why it is legitimate for the Chamber to ask if it can get an insight into it. Can we understand the economic effects that are at the root of the question of what measures you are or are not taking? Because then we can have a judgment on that, too. That's really hard right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u149	I said something about that at the beginning. On such a Sunday, the cabinet should be able to really talk without decision-making on the basis of documents, without having to share that directly with the Chamber. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u150	I asked another question. I wasn't asking about that piece right now. I did that at the beginning of the debate. As the Prime Minister said, you're not getting it. I now asked whether the Prime Minister could at least share the economic consequences of what measures are being taken. Because apparently that information is there, but we don't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u151	In general terms, of course, the Netherlands has so far had the least contraction in the economy throughout Europe. But the Netherlands also has a decrease of 9%. Germany is following us with 11%. We see economies in the south and also England shrinking by 20%. This leads to a huge loss of jobs. So, yes, taking measures, such as intelligent lockdowns, partial lockdowns, full lockdowns... paste the adjective for what you want... has huge economic consequences. By the way, first of all, it has very far-reaching social and social consequences in people's lives, but ultimately it is economic. If a company has to close the door and people lose their jobs, it will of course have far-reaching consequences. That's not very complicated to see. Of course, you always try to find that balance. You're not trying to do more than you have to. But at least let's not think as a precaution: oh, oh, oh, the economy, so let's not do it. In the end, the precautionary principle always applies: catch up if in doubt, because you need to get the virus under control again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u152	I think this is really complicated. The cabinet therefore does not want to give an insight into the economic consequences of the measures. We have read in the newspaper that there is that insight in the cabinet. At the same time, there are more and more economists who are advocating the opposite of what the cabinet says. They say, on the contrary, that the short blow, which is equally severe, is not only better for health, but ultimately also for the economy. Because it will ensure that the virus is controlled, that consumer confidence is increased, that spending will increase and that shops, society and so on can also open up faster. So I think we are right to ask: you ask for trust and support to the Chamber for a package of measures that is still different from the Roadmap, okay, maybe it's necessary, so let's see what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u153	It is not the case that there was a piece of exactly these measures and that there was a lot of them, it was not. If you look at Europe, you can see two things. Firstly, countries that have applied full lockdowns have suffered enormous damage to the economy. That may have been necessary and I have no further comment to make. Each country has had to do what it deemed necessary from the national perspective. There was a decline in Spain's economy of 20% and in France of around 15%. These are dramatic figures, and behind them are jobs, of people with very normal incomes, but also a government that is getting less and less tax money and ultimately less funding essential services, such as education, care and safety. That's a conclusion. Conclusion two is that not so much with economists, when you look at what the English call the considerable body of opinion, the greatest common denominator of opinion, it is important to take the toughest measures. No, you have to show that you're taking it seriously to eventually get control of the virus. That's crucial. I believe that we are showing this as a Chamber and cabinet to the Netherlands. I think you can also see this in the confidence figures given to the Chamber and Cabinet of the people. It is said that it is terrible that the virus is here, but we can see that there are people on both sides of this house who are trying to do everything necessary to ensure that the country remains safe and that the health gets as little damage as possible, knowing conscientiously, knowing the consequences it has, but as little as possible of course in balance with other interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u154	I honestly think the opposite is true. I do not believe at all that the overall picture in society is that we are now pulling everything out of the closet to contain that virus as quickly as possible. I have much more the idea that the overall feeling in society is: gosh, this winter is going to take a very long time. We are going to go on with these measures for a very long time, without a very clear perspective. That is what I would like to tell the Prime Minister, because that was precisely the idea behind the road map. Providing a perspective: what additional measures are needed and when can the measures be scaled down again? But that was, of course, also to give trust to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u155	Sure. And the question? I didn't hear that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u156	Well, you're absolutely saying that the Cabinet is doing everything it can to contain the virus as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u157	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u158	I dispute that. The people we are talking to feel that this winter is going to last for a very long time. That's what I said. My question was: isn't the feeling in society that we're still messing around in this way instead of opting for a short blow to stop the virus quickly, which is better for health, and ultimately better for the economy if we can believe a lot of economists for the economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u159	I'll fight that last one. It's got to be proportional what you do. Economists do say you have to show them you're serious. Then it will help enormously if democracy, both the controller and the government, pulls on one side of the rope as much as possible. I think we're doing it here. That's how all these debates feel to me. We have, of course, intense debates on aspects of the policy, but mostly I have the feeling that in the Netherlands there is very broad support in the Chamber to try to do everything conscientiously with the Cabinet to keep the matter under control, but it is in balance and proportionate, because that remains important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u160	Good. Then I will go to Mr Van Haga and then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u161	During my own contribution, I asked a question about the PCR test. I assume Minister De Jonge will answer in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u162	Again. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u163	Well, rarely, actually, but I hope it's gonna happen tonight. To my surprise, the Prime Minister also uses the word 'infectious' and, to the extent of disaster, the word 'infectious'. I wonder if he agrees with me that a positive PCR test is not an infection or is not one-on-one equivalent to an infection and certainly not an infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr De Jonge is about to be involved in this whole technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u165	Yeah, maybe you can ask the question again later, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'm gonna be standing here again. The sad thing is that I probably won't get an answer. I find it a little unfortunate that there is talk of infectious diseases, when it comes to positive PCR tests. It's a real difference. So again the question: does the Prime Minister understand the difference between positive PCR tests, infections and infectious diseases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u167	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u168	Can we at least agree to talk about positive PCR tests from now on? Because that's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u169	No one at home understands that. "PCR test" is professional jargon that no one understands anymore, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u170	Yes. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u171	The Prime Minister's response highlighted two key elements: reducing the number of contact points and reducing the number of travel movements. At the beginning of his contribution, the Prime Minister spoke about commuting and the contact he will have with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u172	Not me, but the two ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yes, the two ministers will have that. I did think the Prime Minister was ignoring that too quickly. What are the instruments that the two ministers have in their hands to reduce the number of travel movements? The advice has been from the very beginning: work at home as much as possible. Are there instruments that go beyond just an urgent opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u174	Sure, but I'm not gonna tell them here. You can think of one yourself. I'm not going to quote it in a public debate. I think that the organisations of employers and employees in the Netherlands realise that, if this is not good, we also need other instruments to intervene further. But when I say what they are, it is not going to promote the dialogue between the two ministers and the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u175	That sounds like a threat. The social partners will be very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u176	Hopefully, it'll lead them to action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u177	It didn't sound like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u178	I said, "hopefully, it'll get them into action."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u179	Hopefully, absolutely. But I hope that it is not necessary and that it will happen on its own and that the Prime Minister agrees with it. He did it right away. That's fast. A second point is that we see that the number of travel movements is enormous at the time of the rush. This has to do with students, pupils and students who go to school, and with workers who are asked to appear at their workplace. At the same time, we see the tendency for public transport to have fewer trains at rush hour, fewer trams or fewer buses. What is the Prime Minister's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u180	That question was not asked in the first period. I will come back to that in second term. I do not have exactly the latest state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u181	I did say that, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u182	Okay, I didn't notice that. I will return to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u183	Then I'd like to hear that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u184	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that. I promise. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps just one more word, and that can be done briefly from my side about how we deal with regional measures. In short, we are going to work out whether in regions where infections are high in numbers and the decline too limited, these are still important indicators: many infections and little or no reduction of any additional measures are needed. That image should last Monday or Tuesday next week. I mentioned these measures yesterday in the press and they are also described in the letter to the Chamber. We hope they are not necessary, but we see through our eye hairs that there is a risk in two, three, up to four regions that they are needed. These are measures that we impose nationally in such a region. This is different from the debate earlier this year on regional measures in September, which gave rise to difficult discussions at that time. Eventually they went well, but at first they started a bit hesitant. These are measures which we announce nationally and which must be taken in the regions. Hubert Bruls said a few things about it, but that's perfectly fine. He's chairman of the Security Council. He's not part of the cabinet policy unit, so he can do that. He represents this important consultation platform as Chairman of the Security Council. I know the mayors in that platform and I have seen the first reactions from regions I had to mention yesterday in the press, because they could be regions where they need to be. We hope that this will not be the case next week and may not be the case at all. Those regions say: if necessary, it is necessary. Because in the end, you have to make sure that things go further down in those regions. Simply put: it is not like the Netherlands, like a kind of metronome, tickok, tickok, goes down at the same pace. There are regions that are moving fast and unfortunately also regions that are very lagging behind. You can't say now because a few regions are moving fast: I'm gonna let them go sooner. Unfortunately, we will all have to continue until mid-December. Then we hope to be able to take steps back in the Roadmap and then perhaps even more regional variations will come in line with the Roadmap. But right now, I can't. A region that is lagging behind and even at risk of rising R above 1 in that region, with a large number of infections and a risk of exponential growth, is the last thing you can have. There was also a concern about the regional care institutions, the hospitals. That's circumstantial. It's not necessarily that we're doing exactly that for those hospitals. But as the number of infections increases, and as a result the number of hospitalizations, it also puts additional pressure on hospitals. Mr. Chairman. This is in response to the questions that have been asked as to what should be done at regional level. Then I have a single question in the subject of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u185	Maybe it's okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u186	Do you want me to do that first? Mr De Jonge will address the issue of loneliness he addressed. Mr Asscher asked a question about the learning disadvantages. I can tell him that we are now looking at how these crisis jobs can contribute to education in corona time. It's definitely being looked at. There is also broader consideration of combating backlogs. Schools are now, for example, in the process of implementing the catch-up and support programmes. I can inform him that the Minister for Social Affairs for the examination of the SZW budget of 17 November is sending a letter to the Chamber on the employment of the crisis. With regard to the approach to educational disadvantages, I can inform you that at the moment the colleague of Education, Culture and Science is in the process, and also the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media Policy, to give birth to a letter as soon as possible, at least this month. I can also imagine that this is a reason to have the debate with them here. That's what they're looking for. Mr Dijkhoff's question on the phasing-out of measures, including on the occasion of the holidays, is also included in the subject of the varia section. I've already said something about that. We will return to the 14 October package in two weeks' time. Moreover, we continue to assess this constantly on the basis of the question: is it enough? So it may also be that there are some minor adjustments to be made during the ride. In mid-December there will be the possibility of a review. I am very consciously not talking about easing, but about looking at what might be about, in a sensible way, also learning from earlier moments in May-June, when things were possible. We are also thinking about how we treat the holidays in a safe way. We shall come back to that. There are a few things that we will come back to anyway: fireworks, holidays, but also the question: what would that look like after 15 December, with the enlargements that hopefully can take place? What can be done with caution? On these three things we come back in two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u187	Have you answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u188	I think that answers the questions on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u189	I have Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Jetten, Mr Kuzu, Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u190	I also asked the Prime Minister about the European approach. Last time it was: the agenda is already fixed, I can't change that now. So I would like to know what we can do with the cabinet now, so that we can ensure that the Netherlands acts there on the things that the Chamber considers important. I have already mentioned the risk of mutations of the virus via mink farming. Perhaps it would be good to seize the opportunity and ask what we can do together to ensure that we get the virus underneath so that we can discuss it wisely. So what can we agree to make sure that the Netherlands has a good commitment on the agenda at the next European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u191	That's not how it works. The European summits are up-to-date, so they are not formal European Councils. There's another one on November 19th. That is where we are going to exchange experiences and find out what is going on. But we don't go into the matter so specifically. That really is in the area of the ministers of agriculture or the ministers of public health. So it's not like I can say there that we're gonna raise the minks. That's not how it works. But that happens in other places. So that, Mrs Ouwehand, is right, especially after the developments in Denmark, will certainly be discussed in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u192	Then I'll just wait for the answer from the US Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u193	I can't wait to see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u194	... because the risk, which the Danish RIVM has already warned of and which has now become a reality, is that those mutations can cause a vaccine that is now being developed not to work. It seems to me that we should want to discuss this and prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u195	As part of the regional lockdown, I have asked a number of specific questions about curfew. I don't think I've heard the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u196	I can, of course, go into that a little further. For starters, we'll see if it's necessary. Then we look at secondary education and higher, so from vo up, to the retail trade, and to a curfew between 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m., it seems now. So these are national measures that are being implemented at regional level, so we do not need to discuss them. I can also see real support for that. I also note from the initial reactions from the regions that it is said: it is also very intense in us, we understand that there may need to be more, no matter how annoying that may be. Specifically with regard to that curfew, of course, it has the effect and that it achieves that people stop going on the road from 9 p.m. and that they are all home from about 10 p.m. This prevents people from organizing big things at home after 10:00 p.m., because after that people have to go home. It will never go all the way back to zero, but through experience abroad, we think that curfew in such a situation can really contribute. There are forms of curfews all over Europe. We have seen that it was very successful in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u197	Mr. Jetten... you have to step on that thing really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u198	Yeah, the middle pedal's a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u199	Yeah, that's tough. We're gonna do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u200	But I actually knew this about the curfew, because I've heard that in the last few days. My questions were very specific about the expected effects and how you're going to maintain and make the exceptions. Because experience in other European countries actually shows that there can be no effect on that curfew. That's what the European Health Agency ECDC says. RIVM was also unable to add an expected effect to that curfew in the technical briefing today, while it is quite a drastic measure that a country with a liberal prime minister will say: you can no longer go out on the street between 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u201	Yeah, heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u202	In the first period, I asked some questions about this. How do you do that, for example, with people who work on shiftwork? What do you do with people walking the dog at night? What are you doing with truck drivers supplying the supermarkets at night? They all need exceptions to that curfew. Moreover, I have also understood from several police officers that they will no longer do their job during the day if they have to maintain a curfew. They say, "We don't go to traffic accidents anymore during the day, and we're not going to do the enforcement we have to do during the day, because we don't have that capacity." So my question is very specific: what effect can we expect from that curfew, on top of the closure of the catering industry, theatres and so on? And how are we going to maintain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u203	Of course, that curfew does not lead to an independent effect on the spread of the virus. But of course he does indirectly, because he contributes to what we say about staying home as much as possible, that you should receive no more than two people at home and therefore not do large home parties and that you should limit the number of travel movements. So such a curfew has indirect effect, of course. Not directly, so Van Dissel couldn't tell us exactly what effects a curfew has on the reproduction number this afternoon. But indirectly, there are enormous effects. And yes, that also requires enforcement efforts, but that enforcement is of course easier in itself: if someone is on the street after 10 p.m., they have a problem, unless that person can prove that he works in care or has to supply a shop at night or is on shiftwork. We're gonna look at exactly how to prove that, but we're gonna try to make that as administrative light as possible. But of course, in situations like this, someone could be out on the street. But we also say that in some regions this may be necessary, because it is so serious and because the number of infections is so high. In those regions we run the risk of exponentially increasing the number of infections if we do not take additional measures to contain them. And those hospitals just can't handle it, probably not in that region, and it will at least lead to more hospitalizations. A curfew will therefore inevitably reduce the number of contact moments, meetings and travel movements. It has a dampening effect. Enforcement is difficult, of course, but it will have to be. It is becoming more difficult to have an epidemiologically irresponsible interaction, i.e. to have an official social or mutual interaction. You have to get out on time, and you have to get home in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u204	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u205	And, of course, enforcement takes place before the evil has happened, so before the virus has been able to spread, because it can also contain the illegal parties, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u206	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u207	Finally. I also said it in my first term: I understand that the cabinet is looking very critically at these three regions, because things are really not going well there, and I understand that additional measures are being considered for these regions. But a government that is going to say to people for six hours a day that they are not allowed to go outside, but is not really able to justify what the effect is on the number of infections, can actually not properly demonstrate how this is going to be maintained and actually recognises that there is a lot of bureaucracy to look at all the exceptions that need to be made... I am still not convinced and I will be very critical about this next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u208	I get that. You can do all that, and I respect that, too. But of course this is not entirely true either. You can't say that it has an independent effect on the R, because of course people shouldn't have organized parties already, they should have limited the number of contact moments already and they shouldn't have met with more than two people. But on all these points, of course, it has the indirect effect that you limit it all. Participants of a party don't cross the street anymore from a certain time. They can be fined for that. Still, maintaining behind the front door doesn't go, but maintaining it for the front door obviously makes it easier. And in Europe, in large parts of France, from 9 p.m. to 6 p.m., and many other places in Europe, this happens. That's not for nothing. It really makes a contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u209	Yet in the eight or nine months that we try to combat the corona virus in this country, it is a unique measure. We have not seen this at all in recent months, in recent decades. This means quite a lot, for entrepreneurs, for citizens, for municipalities, for local authorities, who have been very creative in recent months and have shown a great deal of strain in complying with these measures. Now that the Prime Minister has announced in the press conference that regional measures will be taken, I wonder whether there will be additional regional support measures for companies which, for example, are in trouble by setting up a curfew. Think about evening shops. Think of delivery restaurants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u210	It works that way that the package breathes with it anyway. The Chamber can rightly say, if we have not yet come up with that ourselves: see what the impact is on the economy. Now they are often national measures, but this can also be done in the case of regional measures. In yesterday's debate on the aid packages, it was not for nothing that I had to look for the exact date before the end of the month...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u211	You can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u212	Before the end of the month, the letter will show the impact of the new measures. If such a regional package were to be needed, that would, of course, be the case. But it also applies to the question of what we are going to do with quarter 1 and quarter 2 with the austerity in the packages. That is all to come, as was promised yesterday, before the end of November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u213	Yesterday, the debate was also taking place at the time of the clarification of these regional measures. Of course, I can well imagine that there are a lot of good-looking minds in the various departments that have already worked out scenarios as to what that should look like. At the same time, I also notice a lot of unrest among local administrators, with mayors, with aldermen. They ask what this is going to mean for their municipality and for their region. I cannot escape the impression that there is still a great deal of communication to regional authorities, local authorities, at that time. Would the Prime Minister at least agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u214	I think the point was about the economic consequences of such measures. If it is necessary next week, we hope not to do so, it will of course be included in the promised letter on what all the effects of the hammer are. Sorry, of course, they were already in yesterday's debate. It is about the effects of last night's measures for two weeks. What does that mean for those three regions or four regions or two regions, hopefully not at all for their economies? This is reflected in the same letter in which, as agreed in yesterday's debate, the question of what we are going to do in the first and second quarters of next year is addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u215	I shall go to Mr Asscher, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Wilders. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u216	The Prime Minister said something about the learning disadvantages, but I also mentioned in my speech the greater social issue and the inequality with which the virus is spreading. Here in The Hague in the district of Laak, in Rotterdam in Feijenoord and in Amsterdam in the Bijlmer and Nieuw-West, many more people become ill. They find it much harder to protect themselves. That's because of the work they do, often in vital sectors, because they live smaller, because they don't have the money to buy new mouth caps every day, because it's much harder to go into quarantine and isolate you because you don't get any more money from your boss. My request to the cabinet was to act there. Take the municipalities around the table and go much more actively into the neighborhoods to prevent people from getting sick, support them, hand out mouth caps, help people in their income. Avoid the virus from having enormous social effects there. The Prime Minister didn't respond to that. He leaves loneliness with De Jonge. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet to respond to this. Here is a chance to better control the virus, but it is also a moral duty not to leave people in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u217	I understand, and I also agree with Mr Asscher that you are really at risk there. I will not leave that point of loneliness to De Jonge. Sounds like it doesn't matter to me. I would just like to say that I think that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u218	I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u219	Fine. He's about to go in. I've just been treating education. I am very reluctant, however much I understand the enormous social risk, to say that the cabinet should go into the neighbourhoods for mouth caps, food banks and the fight against corona debt, because that is a task for the municipalities and their social affairs aldermen. This is a task of the social services and of the aldermen who cover the entire social and medical domain in the municipalities. That's where the responsibility lies, I think. I'm not against it, and that's why I'm looking. I agree with Asscher's analysis that we are at great risk there, but I also think that is what I observe during my work visits and in my contacts with the municipalities that this is extremely important. I'm afraid I'm about to promise something that a cabinet can never deliver, namely that we're going into the neighborhoods. That is not possible and the municipalities will have to do so. The question is therefore where he sees the added value of a cabinet intervention at this point on top of what we are already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u220	Finally, Mr Asscher. Let's count... How much? It's his fifth question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u221	I'm not asking for the guarantee that it'll all be resolved. There is no guarantee at all, but the cabinet is now saying: we are closing down the community centers and the libraries. That is precisely what has enormous social consequences in these neighbourhoods, and that is why I believe that there is not enough help in preventing people from getting sick in those neighbourhoods. Yes, there is communication in all kinds of languages, but we also know that people are not watching that press conference. We're not getting enough of these people. I am convinced that if you invite the municipalities and ask them what more we can do with them to ensure that people do not get sick, to support people and to ensure that those financial thresholds are removed, we will do more against the virus than by closing those libraries. There will be fewer sick people and it will be easy for those people to follow the rules. It's just not the same for a family in Wassenaar as for a large family in a very tight home in Amsterdam Nieuw-West.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u222	A thousand percent once, but what I'm looking for is... I agree, but aren't those municipalities doing that already? In the house of Thorbecke this is surely the task of the municipal alderman Social Affairs, the mayor, the social services and everyone involved in the Wmo and other matters in the social domain? It used to be called welfare, the Participation Act and so on. The debt relief is still there. I see the support of the food banks in The Hague and I hear it from someone who works on the Hague market and with whom I happen to be friends. I see what commitment the municipality makes together with those people in a neighborhood like the Schilderswijk and then I think... I'm really looking for the added value when we say to these municipalities: you have to make sure you don't lose sight of those people. I don't think they do at all. I totally agree with Asscher that we are at risk here, but what is the added value of an intervention by us? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u223	It is not an intervention and it is not a matter of saying to these municipalities that they are not doing well. The point is that if the cabinet closes the neighbourhood libraries at national level, it should at least be opposed to inviting the municipalities. This is certainly true of the municipalities where many infections are now coming from these difficult neighbourhoods. Those are also the municipalities that are in the picture, because things are getting completely out of hand. You have to take preventive action there, because this approach only works if the Rich and the local authorities do it together. You should say: I bring them to the table and money is not the problem here, because we have a common problem. People get sick and die right there. And that's sometimes avoidable, because they can't protect themselves properly, because they don't know how it works and because they don't have enough opportunities to stay home when they're sick. There is therefore a huge task and a moral duty to do more there. If you would bring the congregations around the table and offer them to do it together and they would say "we do everything already," that's fine. But that's not my impression. I think there can be a lot more and there has to be a lot more. I think you should also say as a government and creditor: we do not want corona debts to be built. People are getting deeper and deeper into the misery. What's new about earlier? That is the realization, the inescapable realization of last night, that this is going to take a long time. And the longer this takes, the more important it is to protect and help people in advance. It hits them in a different way than in other neighborhoods in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u224	I'm gonna go chew on that. I'll come back to that in second term, because I'm just thinking how... Look at Amsterdam, where I think the city administration succeeds in... The number of infections has really fallen there. We don't know exactly what they're doing there in their mix. Halsema wrote that report on young people and Corona earlier this year, and we also benefit from it. So perhaps you can also learn from what is happening in Amsterdam. Why does it work there? Do they even know why it works? Are they just doing the things they do because they think it's important? But they may have been able to learn lessons from what may or may not work. I think something like that would make more sense. I want to avoid waving my fingers and saying, boys, beware, people are threatening to fall between shore and ship. Asscher doesn't want that either. That's what I understood. I'm just looking for the added value. It could be that you're looking at what we can learn from each other. Through such a walk-up everyone also realizes once more how important it is. I shall come back to that in the second term. But I'm thinking about something practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u225	Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u226	I have just been informed that you may already receive an answer from Mr De Jonge in his first term. If he doesn't do that to his satisfaction, it'll come in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u227	Well, look at that. The cabinet is often looking for broad support for the measures. There is one measure for which there is very broad support: raising salaries in health care. Last week we were talking about an adopted motion in the House of Representatives. Since last week, a proposal has also been adopted in the First Chamber on increasing healthcare salaries. Is that going to change anything, I ask the Prime Minister straight to the man, to the firm conviction of this cabinet which we have been hearing for some time now that enough is already being done? Will the cabinet finally give caregivers that fair reward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u228	Yes, next year another EUR 1 billion will be structurally available to further increase healthcare salaries. As you know, a net bonus and so on has also been decided in line with the Van Kooten-Arissen motion. But we will continue to provide substantial financial space next year for further increases in collective agreements and contract wage developments in the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u229	This is, of course, very lame. The Prime Minister simply repeats what is said every time, just as the Cabinet did in a note to the Chamber. In doing so, he explicitly does not implement the motion which talks about an additional structural valuation. The prime minister shouldn't come back with the same song. One. That extra space will hardly be there, due to rising pension contributions. The increase in healthcare salaries will therefore be nil. Two. That bonus is a one-time bonus. Most health care workers are still waiting for that. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister really needs to stop doing that. I would like to add an additional argument. It's not just that those caregivers deserve it. It is also the case that this corona crisis underlines the severity of staff shortages in the care sector. That was already the case, and it is now in extremism. Surely we should do everything, including raising salaries, to make work in care somewhat more attractive and seduce more people to work in care? Then the Prime Minister at the moment, we see that departments are empty, that there are beds but no caregivers, that regular care needs to be called off and that ambulances are driving around because they can't get rid of the people. Surely an irresponsible risk if he doesn't do everything in his power to ensure that extra colleagues come into the care that both Chambers are asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u230	With Mrs Marijnissen, I share the enormous appreciation for the 1.3 million people who appear in the field for us every day, whether in hospitals, in general practitioners, in mental health care or in nursing homes, so I am talking about the whole sector, from hospital to nursing homes and everything in between to support this country as best as possible and, if possible, to make it better for people who have become vulnerable to old age or health problems. To do this, you have to do two things. First of all, you have to make sure there's decent pay. I think the system we have in the Netherlands for that is good. The healthcare salaries are growing along with contract wage development in the Netherlands and a lot of money is being made available for this every year; it is 1 billion for next year and it was 5 billion over this entire cabinet period so far. In addition, there is a second aspect: in health care, apart from the salary, autonomy is considered extremely important. I'm talking about the extent to which you can do what you want to do in your work, so you don't hear in the morning: you're placed in that department. We address this whole complex of work in healthcare, which makes it more attractive and responds to people's concerns, with a programme of up to 130 million from 2023 on. That is what we are doing to ensure that people's enjoyment of working in healthcare also improves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u231	It remains unimaginably breathocratic that a motion of the First and Second Chambers is simply ignored by the cabinet. I don't have any words for that. Anyway... Another question: the curfew. I would like to join Mr Jetten, who is now gone, in screaming out my horror about that curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u232	He's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u233	No, that curfew might come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u234	No, I meant Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u235	Oh, Mr. Jetten! Look, he's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u236	He'll be back as soon as you call! I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u237	The cabinet intends to introduce regional curfews if necessary shortly. My colleague Fleur Agema put a very good question to Mr Van Dissel this morning. She asked what its effect was. Why are you suggesting this, she asked. Mr Van Dissel is, of course, not a politician, but an expert. Mr Van Dissel's answer was: well, I don't know that effect, but we would advise the cabinet to do it because of a sense of urgency. Those were his literal words. Perhaps the Prime Minister has had time to look into it or has been informed by his officials. Mr Van Dissel said: because of a sense of urgency. Whatever other countries in the European Union do, it cannot be that we... as liberals simply forbid people from going out after 10 p.m.? That is a huge restriction, perhaps the most far-reaching one the cabinet has proposed this year. And in all reasonableness: it is disproportionate. If you cannot prove where that measure leads, for which it is necessary, to how many fewer infections that lead exactly, or at least approximately, if it is only for "a sense of urgency" among the population, then you should not do so. I blame the Prime Minister not, but it reminds me of the darkest times we've had in this country if you can't be out at night when you've done nothing wrong. I would like to ask the Prime Minister there is a liberal heart in him, so I really wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u238	Just like I don't want to close the cafes and restaurants, I don't want to close the community centers, I don't want to close the libraries, I don't want to close the pools. I hate it all. But we are dealing in the Netherlands with a life-threatening pandemic, to which many people die, today again about the 100 deceased Dutch, and which puts enormous pressure on health care. Then, unfortunately, you also have to do things that you absolutely wouldn't want to do, but which are necessary to ensure that our people, all of us, who are 17 million people, can make the journey over the mountain to hopefully safer times. Unfortunately, this measure is also part of this, if there is no other way. Why is that? Because it has a huge effect on target groups who have deliberately withdrawn themselves from the corona measures in the evening, to the great irritation of those millions of Dutch who do try to do it wisely. They may be more annoyed by that than we all are. You want to reduce the possibility of contact, of meeting and travel movement by that curfew. That'll have a dampening effect on the virus. Not a direct effect on the reproductive factor, but indirect, because the measure contributes to compliance with the measures and behavioral advice we give. Of course, this requires a huge effort, but oddly enough, paradoxically, enforcement itself is easier. And that's why you have to do this. Well, at least you're part of it preventing home parties. At least you're gonna limit them. You prevent cases that you see here and there, for example the enforcement that took place last weekend in Limburg, with a huge police effort. From all over the Netherlands, police had to go there to take down that retarded party they were organizing. And then the police are criticized that not everyone has been fined. Well, that just didn't work anymore, the numbers were just too big. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u239	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u240	So in the end only the organizer and a few more people are fined, simply because the capacity with the police is also finite at some point. This measure also helps in this respect. Not because I like it, nobody likes it, but we just have an unlikely big problem in the Netherlands. Then I think that this measure, which has been introduced all over Europe, in most countries, cannot be said 'I do not necessarily' when you know that it has these effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u241	But he's disproportionate. Once again, with a lot of earlier measures such as closing down the catering industry, I do not agree with them, or at least we have commented on them, but at least there could be some reasoning as to where it leads, movement towards certain tents, people who did not always follow the rules. Even if you didn't agree, you could at least follow the reasoning a little bit. But there's almost no dog on the street, literally and figuratively, after 10:00 p.m. That's not true. Once again, Mr Van Dissel, your main advisor, said: I do not know, the effect is unknown; we are concerned with urgency. Again, take on those people who party. Give them a hell of a punishment if they do anything against the rules, whatever you think. Totally agree with the Prime Minister! But to say after 10 p.m. to the whole of the Netherlands: you can't go out... You can't even walk your dog, I read the other day. It seems that the Prime Minister said before this debate to De Telegraaf or to a journalist: you can't even walk your dog. That's total insanity. Anyone who wants to walk his dog in the evening should not do so, while zero point zero contributes to reducing the number of infections. So I'm gonna ask you again. This is the most far-reaching measure you've ever had. The majority of the Chamber did not get in your way in all your plans this year, but had you done and supported, active or passive. You have been able to do what you have done and have been able to support it, including for a large part of the population. But it just goes too far when you say "it can't happen anymore" and even "you can't walk your dog anymore" while the main advisor says: I don't know what the effect is; it's just feeling urgent. Don't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr Wilders is always inclined to refer to polls. You can see in all kinds of studies that a large part of the Netherlands understands this measure, and why? Because a large part of the Netherlands gets annoyed by a small minority who risk ruining it for the rest, because they do not follow the sensible handling of that virus and come together for house parties. We cannot maintain behind the front door, but this makes it easier to ensure that we can do more in front of the front door.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u243	Thank you. We wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned and then I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. I now give the floor to the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr. Chairman. I think that the questions that affect the strategy and the perspective for the coming period have been largely addressed, so I actually wanted to concentrate on what is about testing and tracing, the questions about vulnerable people and then some other questions. In the coming period, we are, of course, trying to ensure that we achieve as much as possible that reduction in the number of infections and hospitalisations and at some point also reach such a level that we can offer some room for manoeuvre in the measures. We now expect this to be mid-December. In the coming weeks, we're going to work out what the Christmas period might look like. Of course, we all hope that that will give us some more space to celebrate Christmas with each other in such a way that we can at least spend Christmas with the people who are dearest to us. We want, of course, to steer at all towards a reduction in the number of infections, a rate of infection that allows society to function as much as possible, given that that virus remains among us for the time being. Testing and tracing, as many of you have said, is of course a very important part of this. So we are currently working, as you could read in last week's letter, to expand the test capacity in a great way. We actually do that along three tracks. Mr Dijkhoff asked: does testing policy also affect the measures taken, is testing policy in order? That was a bit of a question through the band, but I understand that question very well. Of course, it has everything to do with: when the rate of infection has dropped again, can testing and tracing succeed in such a way that we can expect an inhibitory effect? We're significantly increasing the test capacity. At the moment, the GGD has capacity for about 64,000 tests a day and 70,000 tests next week. We also see that not all the test sites that are there are actually being used. That's a good sign, in itself. This means that the capacity at the moment is sufficient to comply with the test policy we have, namely the testing of the people with complaints. We're expanding that fast to about 90,000 tests that we can take in December a day; 100,000 to 130,000 from January. Quick tests have a role to play in this. We're stomping those XL locations out of the ground. They're gonna open in a lot of places in the next month. In doing so, we get the basic capacity set up in such a way that we can meet the goal we have, namely to keep the flow time as short as possible: two times 24 hours max, preferably much shorter. We're almost there, by the way. Then we expand the groups that we want to have tested, namely initially, of course, the people with complaints, but we add the people without any complaints that use the app or that come out of the BCO as soon as possible. I'll come back to that in a minute. Perhaps more groups will follow, including asymptomatic ones, for example travellers. That's basic capacity. It needs to be expanded considerably. The second is that we also want to give employers the opportunity to use rapid tests. And the third is that in the end we also want to come up with a strategy to enable self-reduction, where we invest very heavily in the numbers of tests that are taken out per day. It's important to do that. Then I'll look into the questions that have been asked about that further. Mr Heerma asks: when will the Minister discuss what the breath test and the LAMP test could do? That breath test and that LAMP test are initially used at those XL locations. We are going to add a quick test pavilion to the model developed by the laboratory of the GGD Amsterdam. There a number of tests have been tested. The validation of the LAMP test has been completed. From the OMT I quickly expect confirmation that the LAMP can be reliably deployed. In that case, the LAMP test could be tested already this month. The numbers of LAMP tests that can be deployed at that XL location are going to be very considerable in the coming period. That breath test is currently being conducted in an extensive validation study. I expect the results of this at the end of November. In the next progress letter I will inform you about the state of play and the numbers. Mrs Marijnissen wants to make testing possible for the group of people without complaints from the BCO and the app. That's right. That's what we want. Last week we talked about the design, the phasering, of the tests. At that time, we said that we must first increase the capacity in such a way that all people with complaints can get there as quickly as possible. That's the most important thing for the speed with which we break that infection chain. So you should be able to get it first. This month it should be possible to do that in two 24 hours anyway. We've already booked a huge acceleration at that point. In any case, a test can be applied for and taken in all regions within 24 hours. From decline to rash in a number of regions really takes even longer. That has to do with the German labs. But there is a lot of work to be done on this too. The advent of rapid tests is going to speed up that whole process further. That is the most important thing: testing people with complaints within the target standards. That's the first step. From December 1st we want to add the people from the BCO and the app. Why do I place that somewhat cautiously in time, when we would actually have some capacity to test more people? This has everything to do with the fact that the estimation of the size of the group of people who emerge from the BCO and the app is very strong at the moment because of the high level of infection. By the way, this assessment has a huge bandwidth. It is estimated to be between 24,000 and 64,000 people a day that you should add to it. Well, that 64,000 seems to me to be quite large-scaled, but still. Even if the infection rate drops slightly, it will still be about a large group of extras. I'm a little afraid to say too quickly: come, also asymptomatic. Because that would compromise the speed of passage. So first I want to build up that further excess capacity compared to the target group of today, before we allow that group. But I would like to say the following in the direction of Mrs Marijnissen. If it were to succeed before 1 December to take that step, then we are not going to stop it, because the sooner the better. Another group is the travelers. That order has everything to do with the fact that the percentage found in the group of contacts and in the group of people using the CoronaMelder is always higher. There it pays more than in the group of travellers. So we have to keep that order. A lot has been asked about the commercial test street. I think we should say: that is a welcome addition to the overall test capacity. The more it's tested, the better it actually is. However, this is linked to a number of conditions. The first is that we need to keep an eye on the virus. So we want those positive results to be reported to the GDD. The second is that testing is a medical procedure. It must therefore take place under medical supervision. For example, there are a number of due diligence requirements that we do have to meet. Today on the website reichsoverheid.nl the starting points have been placed, developed by our ministry, by the RIVM, by the GGD and by the inspection, which the tests have to comply with, even if not at the GGD but outside the GGD. So one of the conditions is medical supervision. Another condition is that positive test results are reported to the GDD. That report of positive tests at the GGD is already happening in itself. About 4,000 of the infections in those surveys come from the commercial test streets, but we do have a serious suspicion that we do not have all the results of the commercial test streets in view. We also have a serious suspicion that a lot of junkies are going on the market. The vulnerable thing is that sometimes you don't know whether the tests used are actually sufficiently validated or reliable. Sometimes even blood tests are used to show contamination. Of course, they're not suitable for that at all. Sometimes they are not validated, sometimes the wrong advice is given, so things actually happen. Firstly, we want to involve the commercial tests that are bona fide in the whole of the available test range. Secondly, we want to keep the shitheads out of this as soon as possible. That is what these principles are for. The inspection has also said that it will be more intensively enforced. I think that is quite right, and I encourage it. Within a few weeks, there will also be an LCI directive from the RIVM to standardize what do you have to comply with as a commercial test street? Tighten it up. Thus, we include the commercial test streets in the total available test range. That is the intention, because in this way we have increased capacity as quickly as possible and refined the possibility of purchasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u245	I was the first to have Mr Heerma on my list. But first, I want to know if the Minister has answered all the questions relating to testing. If that's the case, I can allow interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u246	Maybe I should add the following. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher have stressed that, if we go back to the number of infections a day, you must, of course, be able to keep up with BCO at some point. We do this at the same time: we push down the number of infections as hard as possible and at the same time the GGD pushes up the number of BCOs that are reduced per day as hard as possible. Hundreds of people are trained a week. That's really impressive. There's an army of mine standing by 4,800 fte. Until the end of December you can train up to 6,800 FTE. That's the road map that's provided. Those are very impressive numbers. With that, there is a large army ready. If you make that calculation, you can give everyone the very big, regular, extensive BCO in the level "vigilant" again, but you can also do so in that level of risk 2. That is also important, because you can expect the greatest braking effect. This requires a huge organization, but it is impressive what kind of numbers are being obtained there. I think I have answered the questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u247	Then I have Mr Heerma and Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u248	Thank you for explaining the state of play on these LAMP tests and those breath tests. I would also like to thank you for the commitment to discuss this in more detail in the next letter. I would like to stress once again that last week's debate also undertook to focus specifically on the applications for society, in order to give them more space. What was stated in the supplementary OMT opinion this morning and in the letter about those antigen tests was clear, in my view, about the opportunities and threats when it comes to false negative and false positive. But that was very focused on the test policy in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u249	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u250	I would like something similar about the LAMP test and the breath test, but also more specific about what that can do in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u251	Yeah, I get that. I would like to express my sympathy for the fact that this is a step-by-step matter. I have to explain that. We are doing the whole test policy for two reasons: keeping the virus underneath and at the same time keeping society and the economy running as much as possible. Those are actually the goals we have with the testing policy. Depending on the setting in which you use a test, reliability is also a specific focus. At present, the fully asymptomatic use of antigen tests, for example in order to allow an event to continue or not, is simply not yet sufficiently validated to say with certainty that this can be done. We also had that debate last week. Nevertheless, I hope and expect that we will continue to validate for different settings and can also say with more and more "relief" that you can actually use that test for that. Mr Heerma is right to draw attention to this. There's a lot of hope for antigen tests. I understand; I have taken that hope on my own. At the same time, for example, I might find this blow test as interesting. There's actually something else playing that's a bottleneck at a huge acceleration. As far as reliability is concerned, I have every confidence that this test will be validated in the short term. I even hope that will happen this month, but it is a start-up. Breathomix, which we now use, is a start-up. To scale up the production as quickly as possible so that you can really use it very large scale, is therefore the main challenge. They are already working on this and the orders are already placed and so on, but the gear has a different bottleneck. For example, you have different options per test and also different bottlenecks in the gear, but I want to work on it myself in such a way that you can also expect me to put maximum pressure on everything in terms of its applicability and on the scaling up of purchasing and production. In fact, we want to use all these possibilities in parallel. It is up to me to tell you where we stand and why we do it in the order we use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u252	I should like to return to part of Mr Klaver's first term. He was talking about sketching perspective. The risk is that you create too high expectations. It was around Christmas, but here is something else when offering that perspective. It's not settled next week and probably not next month either. Because everyone feels that this is going to take months, this may make us feel that we are working towards something, so that things that are happening now in an irresponsible way can be justified in the future. So without raising expectations that become disappointments, you can also show light at the end of the tunnel in that long breath that is asked of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u253	That's right. Hence the phasering as we have made it. The complexity of testing is indeed to create the right expectations. Because yes, it offers hope and it offers prospects for a society that although the virus is still among us and although we do not yet have a vaccine, it can be much more open than it is at present. Yeah, that hope and that perspective offers it. On the other hand, we must be careful to create expectations that we are not able to meet for the time being, and I am quite consciously saying that we cannot achieve 'almost' because, in the long term, there can be a lot more. Mr Krol spoke of Ajax. I would never do that myself, but Mr Krol was talking about Ajax. That was about the false positives. If you have high-frequency asymptomatic tests with quick tests that are shaky in reliability, the result is that you have many more false positives. The effect of this is that either you put more people on the couch with false positives than is strictly necessary or you run a risk with false negatives that you don't want to run. In short, yes, we need to test more and we need to take advantage of the hopeful perspective that these rapid tests offer in all shapes and sizes, but we also need to be precise in what you may or may not expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u254	The Minister is now going to give part of an answer that was there last week. I have not always asked about the antigen tests, precisely because their application is very complicated. It is not applicable in all settings and has a high risk of false negative, which is much more dangerous in applications in society. Why is the football example so complicated? It's about the Champions League. It's about millions. That leads to all sorts of shit. But when it comes to asking if you can go somewhere and whether an event can continue. If you know in advance that you are going to get a test whose risk of false positive is greater than the risk of false negative, then you assume that that may mean that you are unfortunately not allowed to go in wrongly. The alternative is that it's not there at all. In setting out the right expectations, I have a bit of a feeling, like last week, that the Minister is using the disadvantages of other tests to answer the question I am asking. If something's a start-up, I get that those tests aren't there right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u255	Actually, that's it. That's it. I think we are more in agreement than Mr Heerma suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u256	I agree with the Minister. I wouldn't bring up that club either, certainly not, Mr. Krol, if you live in Eindhoven, Tongelre; but good. I understand both things, but I do see two things that are gonna collide. First of all... We want more direction on the commercial tests and the inspection plays a major role. I do not know whether the inspection also has the capacity to do so with the criteria we set. But the quick tests are going to undermine that again, because there will not always be medical supervision, especially if you can buy it yourself later and do it at home or if you first have to collect in the parking garage for a quick test to see whether or not you can enter the stadium. Those are all things I hope can be done, but in Eindhoven. But then you don't have medical supervision anymore. How are we going to develop the rapid tests to ensure that there is a protocol? If you test positive or if you test positive with a home test at home, you have to make sure that you go to the official test street. People won't like that, because they think: yes, I already know, I'll stay home, because I don't feel like a stick in my nose. We'll miss even more visibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u257	That's exactly why we're working three tracks. The first track is to build up the test capabilities that we offer to everyone. This is initiated from the GGD, supplemented by what VNO-NCW does. That leads to a very extensive offer. Anyone with complaints can be tested there anyway. We can also add the asymptomatic groups. The numbers there are getting very large. The numbers of rapid tests there, in all shapes and sizes, are also becoming very large. The second track runs through the employers. You could also charge the commercial test streets for that. In any case, we want to offer rapid tests, service-oriented towards the employers, because we bought them in large numbers. We also want to offer the conditions under which these tests can be carried out safely. That is what the inspection has set out to do. The inspection will continue to do so. They will expand their supervisory capacity, because it is important that this goes well. This must not go wrong, because it will lead to a real risk to public health. The third track is also a promising track, but that is much more in its infancy. That's the self-collection trail. The vision of the future is that that test will be at the Kruidvat. That might be possible, but not yet, by the way. Because, legally speaking, that requires a completely different approach. There are many other legal conditions for self-salving, including European law. It also requires a different type of validation. But also of this, among others, the OMT and other scientists say: make sure that this self-deduction is always done in a context in which you will continue to have knowledge of positive test results. That's what we're looking for. The group of Kluytmans is looking for that among other things. We are looking for a form of self-deduction in which it is initially a guided self-deduction and then a self-deduction where you will keep an eye on positive test results. This requires an ICT environment connected to the GGD. At the moment we are exploring what is needed, but I actually have the same hope as Mr Dijkhoff. First, you need to put the basic capacity in order. Then you must invite as many employers as possible to make your own purchase and involve the commercial test streets. And finally, you need to promote self-destruction significantly, but safely; in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u258	That sounds good in itself. If I understand correctly, you get a kind of hybrid system, so that someone is with you, as is happening at an event; let's not do the home tests now to help register to make sure it gets through properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u259	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u260	There's got to be some kind of system. If you have a home test, everything must be neatly arranged on the package, so you are asked to report it if you are positive or if you can report with that test to a test site to check it again with a second test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u261	Exactly. That's possible, but that's the most real thing, so I hope there's just an IT environment. You order a test and report the results in the same IT environment. Thus you enter the system of the GGD and the follow-up of a positive test result can then run via the GGD system. With a guided purchase you can indeed think of a situation as you just described it, at an event it happens under supervision. It's possible. Or a remote video accompaniment, that is also a variant that can be thought of. There are a lot of unexplored, but good ideas that are worth exploring at the moment. This is done under Jan Kluytmans' leadership. That's a Brabander, so you need to reassure yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u262	I hear the Minister talking about numbers of tests, but also about beunhazen and commercial tests that are not passed on. In my contribution at the beginning I asked how we can now be sure that we have more or less the right number of infections in mind. Is it true that 5% less has been tested in the last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u263	Yeah, that's right. But that is also possible if you say: everyone with complaints must be tested. You can see that the rate of infection has decreased slightly, so, on its own, that could also lead to a decrease in the test street. That's a correlation. Another risk may be that there's an increase in the number of commercial tests, but I can't make it up to you. At least some 4,000 commercial test results are involved in both results. It's not like we don't have any commercial results in the picture. It is true that a large part of the commercial results is out of the picture. How big that part is, we don't really know. That is why we want to include those commercial test streets in the existing test policy so that they become part of the offer, at least the right ones, because there are those. There are excellent commercial test streets, set up by employers, for example, or set up in cooperation with employers. But there are also commercial test streets that in no way meet the conditions I have just mentioned as beunhazen, and that is where you want to get rid of whether you want them to meet the conditions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u264	Then we are all here applauding the fact that the number of infections is falling, but 5% less has been tested and the number of infections has fallen by 5%. If I can count a little bit and take the test results that have not been registered again, it seems that the number of infections has not dropped at all and has actually remained constant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u265	I don't think that assumption is right. I'll tell you why I don't think that assumption is right. The target group for testing are the people with complaints. They must be tested, and they will be tested. If the rate of infection falls, it is not illogical that the number of people with complaints that are being tested also falls. That's one. Two is that you not only see the number of people with complaints being tested fall, but at the same time you also see the percentages of positive tests fall. You can also see the rate of contagion falling down that road. That helps, too. Besides, it's not like we don't have commercial test results in the picture, but we probably don't have enough of them in the picture. That's the other side. So you can't say: oh, it must have dropped because they're on commercial test streets by now. Then there's another reason. If the waiting times at the GGD were very long, you can still imagine that people might move to a commercial test street where you can go faster. But in the meantime, the lead times at the GGD have also improved considerably, especially in the last week. To be honest, I suspect that the result of a decreasing level of infection is the number of people reporting on the test street. By the way, we know that not everyone with complaints is being tested. There is also more space and let's use this moment to call on everyone who sits now and thinks "I do indeed have complaints" to be tested. It's important that we have everyone on camera.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u266	Please continue. Oh, Mrs. Sazias?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u267	I am very curious about the deviation rate in the positive tests that have actually been carried out. I am not convinced that what is now appearing on the dashboard is really the reality. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u268	It is always an approach to reality, of course. We know that the number of people infected and the number of people contagious is always much greater than the number of people reporting on the test street. We know that, but we're trying to approach it as best we can. That is why it is important that we also have the results of the commercial tests in mind. We are working hard on this in the way I have just explained. Mrs Sazias asked another question, which I had not answered anyway, although I thought I was through. She asked: is it possible to have district nurses tested at home? That's definitely possible. The GGD works hard on home collection and has mobile swap teams, often using district nurses. This fine-meshed decline is becoming ever more extensive. For the volumes it is important to have these very large locations, but for the low threshold, it is important to be able to test as finely as possible around the corner. We have just talked about self-testing. We've talked about the PCR a number of times. Why do we call a positive PCR an infection? I sent you two letters of formal notice from the RIVM two years ago, which dealt with a great many questions about this issue. During the technical briefings you also had the opportunity to ask Mr Van Dissel about the reliability of those PCR tests. The PCR is the most reliable test we have. This is also widely recognised worldwide. Much is not right about Mr Van Haga's story, but what is true is that you may still get a positive PCR result just after the infectious period. It's possible. PCR clearly shows that there has been or has been an infection. It doesn't have to be in all cases that you're still contagious at the time. Nevertheless, it is important to continue using the PCR test. That is also one of the reasons why we say: have you tested if you have any complaints. Because if you have any complaints and are doing a PCR test at that time and if that test is positive, you can honestly assume that in most cases you are also contagious at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u269	Nor did I claim that the PCR test is a bad test, but in combination with other clinical studies. You have a standard error margin, you have the ability to check old viral pieces of the RNA. Recently, the number of cycles has increased from 30 to 35, to which I have yet to get an answer. There are several reasons why that PCR test has a reasonable margin of error without further clinical examination. So it's very strange to equate a positive PCR test with an infection. I wonder why you keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u270	But to the infection, not to the fact that people would also be contagious at that time. That's because we say, people, get tested if you have any complaints. If you have any complaints and also a positive result from the PCR, you can honestly assume that most of the cases will also be contagious. I'm sure there'll be people who get a positive test but aren't contagious anymore. Well, fine, but in most cases it's certainly reliable. You say, "Do another clinical trial." When you're doing a clinical trial, you're just using a PCR test to prove that someone is infected, that someone has contracted that virus. I do not know what Mr Van Haga is looking for. If something like this is the golden standard, seen by the WHO in that way, seen by the ECDC in that way, seen by the RIVM in that way, seen throughout the medical world in that way, why should we have a political debate on the reliability of PCR tests? I don't think that's wise. I also think it would be unwise to question the reliability of those PCR tests. We're using the test wisely. We are always advised by the OMT when it comes to our testing policy. There is a great eagerness at the Chamber and also at me to use a lot more tests, also more types of tests. But I think we should also conclude that, when it comes to the reliability of tests, we should really leave that judgment to experts rather than politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u271	There's also a lot of blame in this story. In any case, we agree that a positive PCR test cannot be treated as contagious under any conditions. At least we took that horde. The Prime Minister said that all these infectious agents are positive PCR tests. That's not possible. Then there is still a low prevalence, if people are asymptomaticly tested, the margin of error can be incredibly large. So then it is still not reasonable to equate a positive PCR test with an infection, without further clinical examination. This is not a political story, this is simply trying to remove the confusion that exists in society, because there is a lot of doubt and the consequences are enormous. The reproductive number R is based on it. People have to stay home. So it is important that this confusion be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u272	I don't think there is, but you're trying to create that confusion now and then. There's no such confusion. I think everyone's very clear about the PCR test being the most reliable test there is. You have to assume something. Well, that's the PCR test. That's just the gold standard. All these forms of rapid testing are sometimes more practical, but not more reliable. The PCR test is really the gold standard. We'll be able to reduce an astronomical number of them. That's more every week than the week before. So it's really nice that we can do that by now. It is great that we can base our basic testing policy on that. How and under what conditions which tests are reliable and what is applicable in certain settings, we always have the experts give us thorough advice. And then we're gonna shape that as good as we can. That seems to me to be the order of things. No political debate on the reliability of tests. That's really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u273	Finally. I'm not getting anywhere with this, so I'm just gonna leave it at that. I will table a motion on this. I have one last question that has still not been answered. I asked that question two weeks ago. That was about scaling up the 30 cycles to 35 cycles. Can I expect a reply in writing soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u274	Yes. I think you have already received that answer in writing. I will also make sure that all the information on the site, both RIVM and the government's, is always accurate, so that anyone who wonders what was or is not true of the questions that Mr Van Haga asked can find that out publicly. That seems very simple to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u275	I would appreciate that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u276	Good. Then I had one more question about the CoronaMelder app. That was a question from Mrs Sazias about the mandatory use of the app. We have talked about this in the Chamber for a very long time. Above all, we did not want employers to impose this thing. It doesn't appear to be a known case. In the meantime I hear a lot of stories about employers saying: don't install that thing, because imagine that it goes off and you have to stay at home; then I have another hole in my schedule. I understand in itself that employers reason in this way, because closing schedules is not easy, but I also think it is unwise. After all, that reporter is there for a reason. That detector is quite indicative of the possibility of infection. I understand from Mr Jetten how it went. Maybe I should say that out loud. Mr Jetten first got the message in the app that he had to stay at home because he had been in contact with someone who had been infected. And then he developed complaints. Then he got tested on a very reliable PCR test called "Corona," and, yes, he turned out to have corona. That's actually a textbook example of how that app should work. If it hadn't been for that app, Mr. Jetten might have been on the day he was already contagious, but hadn't developed any complaints yet, happier on the street and infected other people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u277	Now we also know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u278	...and you shouldn't want to. So that app works great if you use it. So it's very good for employers to encourage their people to use that thing, even though they're a bit up-to-date by the time the CoronaMelder goes off. The good news is that if we manage to reduce the level of infection together, the risk of the app going off is also less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u279	Now we know Mr. Jetten's medical records.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u280	Yeah, excuse that, Mr. Jetten, but this was such a wonderful example of how the app works. Just because the foreman of D66 gives us that wonderful example, I just like it. Touchingly beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u281	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u282	Then there are questions about vulnerable people. Mr Kuzu said that, and Mr Van der Staaij also said that. We talk a lot about hospitalizations. We must be careful that there is no monofocus on the pressure on hospitals. Yeah, it's huge. One of the reasons for taking additional measures is, of course, to relieve the pressure on hospitals, to show solidarity with care, because this pressure on hospitals is enormous. But the pressure on the nursing homes is also enormous. The pressure on home care and community care is also enormous. This has to do with the same thing, namely a lot of patients and a high absenteeism among employees. And I think there is also less willingness of all kinds of outside help, which was shown in the first wave and unfortunately less in the second wave. For example, a 10% absenteeism is no exception for long-term care organisations. This simply means that people notice this in the quality of care, because in long-term care and in nursing care you cannot scale down. You can't postpone regular care or anything, because those people just live there and they just need to be nursed. That makes the pressure very big. The pressure is also high in day-to-day spending. I think it is very good to see that there is a lot of energy at these health care institutions and that a lot of new initiatives are being taken to seduce people from outside to work in healthcare. Mr Van Ark will say something about this in a moment. I find it really impressive to hear and see with what tremendous passion and dedication people in long-term care are doing their work. All those times I'm on work visits, I see that and I hear that, and of course you do when you visit. Then there is a question from Mr Segers. It is true that day-to-day spending needs to be scaled down from time to time. This often has to do with the ability to get a team up and running that day-to-day business. But we'd like to keep it going as long as possible. This is actually far too much scaled down in the first wave; that was one of the lessons. In the second wave, we must try to avoid it as much as possible. So decided and organized daily spending can also simply take place and continue after yesterday's package of measures. For example, day-use that takes place in a community center should be able to continue. This also applies to individual assistance and individual assistance in community centres. That was another question from Mr Segers and it was also a question from Mr Klaver. The present social work should be able to continue even if the location is a community center. It is therefore more the walk-in activities that need to be stopped. Then a question from the Segers. I would like to combine that with a question of 50PLUS and also with a question from Mr Asscher. Those questions all have an interface. Perhaps I should start with Mr Asscher's question. What does the cabinet do with municipalities? In fact, the Prime Minister has already answered half of that question. We've talked about that quite a lot. For example, what we do together with the municipalities is everything about homeless people. For example, what we do together with the municipalities is all we do for social support in quarantine. We have jointly made that quarantine guide, including as a performance of your motion. For example, the Red Cross has increased the national aid line in order to be able to answer aid questions. They support municipalities very often, especially in social support. For example, we also make agreements with municipalities about the use of the day. What do they need to keep this daily expenditure open as long as possible? So we are very much together, from the same point of view as Mr Asscher put it. You should stand shoulder to shoulder as governments, where the municipality is, of course, the "first government," as the prime minister says, in the social domain. But we have to do that together. So I feel very much at home with that. Then let me first answer the questions of loneliness. We will have a meeting with all volunteer organisations and church organisations next Monday. We are looking together with them at what we could do extra, especially on the way to the December month, to give an extra boost to the programme Against loneliness that we started together. Of course, we don't quite know how Christmas and how the holidays can be celebrated. We hope that, as much as possible, it can still have the character of together, but that will be really different from other years. And what we need to avoid more than usual is that people spend those days in solitude. So we would very much like to work on an extra boost in the December month, especially with those ecclesiastical organisations. And by the way, not only with these ecclesiastical organisations, because we certainly want to offer this additional support with municipalities. In addition, we also have a discussion with older people's organisations about what we could do extra. I would like to give the following follow-up. In the next letter, in two or three weeks' time, we, as a cabinet, will outline how we can see that the December month can be completed, both with regard to the extension of the measures and with regard to what the Christmas period might look like. What is possible and under what conditions could that be a celebration of together? On that occasion I would also like to express the additional impetus on the subject of loneliness. What can we do together on the theme of loneliness? That is with the churches and with elderly organisations, but also with municipalities. That's what we like to hang out in together. In a week or two, I'd like to outline to you what we could do together. In addition, I would like, together with municipalities, to finish the run-up to the Prime Minister in a proposal on how to deal with it. Around themes such as debt, homelessness and social support of quarantine, we move together with municipalities. I think it takes a lot of time to turn it into a very big plan. I think it could be much more practical. It is true that a lot of municipalities really have their own social approach, which is really useful when others learn about it and learn lessons from it. I know, for example, that Rotterdam has its own support package on social support in quarantine. A number of other municipalities have the same. Especially in the big cities, you see very target-oriented approaches to GGDs in neighbourhoods. In Amsterdam, the number of infections is falling. That must have something to do with the approach. At least I hope so. I hope to learn that lesson, too. I think that's a good chance. So I would really like to bring together municipalities around a theme. What could they learn from each other in that social support they offer? What would they need from each other and what would they need from the cabinet to take a next step? If I could pick up your question in that way, I'd be happy to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u283	So much for this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u284	I've got a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u285	If you finish that, then I will go to Mr Kuzu and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mrs. Sazias had a question about ventilation in the nursing homes. The ventilation systems and their maintenance shall comply with the requirements of the Building Decision 2012. ActiZ actively asked its members to pay attention to these ventilation systems in mid-August. She has also sent out an in-depth questionnaire to all real estate managers of her members. It asked to what extent a risk assessment was made of the ventilation systems in the care locations. The healthcare institutions that responded to ActiZ's request all indicate that they checked the locations. Where necessary adjustments have been made, for example to increase the ratio of fresh air supply. Care institutions that have questions about ventilation can report to building and housing supervision of the municipality that has granted a building permit. Construction and housing supervision is responsible for the supervision and maintenance of care institutions in their own municipality. ActiZ has been very active with this question. I also replied in writing that we are doing the same thing with VGN, but also with Youth Care Netherlands, in order to deal, in fact, with all industry organisations in the care with the question of whether they have sufficient eye and attention to ventilation. Then there is Mr Kuzu's question. What about the DNA data from the tests? Laboratories must meet strict requirements when processing personal data and samples. There are many legal conditions attached to this. Those samples should be stored for some time, for example in case a test is needed to be repeated. With regard to the question of how to control body material that sounds more creepy than it might be, we are working on a bill, the Body Material Control Act. I think it would be good if I outlined to you in another letter how that works. It's quite complex and complicated, even for the late evening, but I'll tell you what it's like. This is subject to many legal conditions. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u287	Mr Kuzu and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u288	In any case, thank the Minister for making a commitment and coming back to it in writing. I look forward to that with interest. My question concerns the first point. I have heard the Minister speak a lot of wonderful words about the home care workers and the district nurses. But I'd like to see him go one step further. The Minister did mention that care is not scaled down in nursing and home care, but there is, of course, a discrepancy because care workers cannot meet the demand for care. I have two points to make. How can the Minister take more action to counter this discrepancy? I'll ask my second question right away. It saves time, too. We get a lot of signals from home care workers and neighbourhood nurses that they have to buy protective equipment themselves. Does the Minister recognize this from his own work visits? Is it also possible to organise a concession for the home care workers and the district nurses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u289	Mr Van Ark is about to address the question about protective equipment. I hope you heard us like that yesterday, but what we can really do with each other to help long-term care is to lower the level of infection. Anyone who runs into someone who complains about the measures in the next week, who actually has negative consequences and who opposes them, I would really like to say: look at the care; do it for care and out of solidarity with the people who work in care and with the people who need care. It's really our job to get that level of infection down. That's one. Two is next. What's great about it is organizing a huge acceleration in the test streets. This means that people are less long away from their work. I would like to start with these quick tests at the long-term care and nursing homes. If we get the rapid testing going there, then we can also get rid of people as short as possible. In addition, we have very intensive contact with long-term care. In addition to hospital care, we also have contact with long-term care to see how we could further support them. So we are really prepared to do all we can. But the very best support that we as a society can give to long-term care is to get that level of infection down with each other. That really helps the very best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u290	Mr. Kuzu, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u291	I absolutely agree with that. That is, in fact, an existing policy. These are the measures we have been putting in place since March to ensure that we reduce contamination. It is precisely that in nursing, but especially in home care and in the neighbourhood nurses, the tension is very high at the moment. We are right to pay attention to hospitals, but we should also have this for home care and care. My question is actually very specific. Is it not possible, in addition to the existing policy and in addition to everything we have used so far to bring the infections back, to really do something extra for those nurses and the home care workers? And again, that must be in addition to the existing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u292	I agree entirely with everything Mr Kuzu says, but let us not pretend that we do not have that attention and let us not pretend that we are not doing so. We are very intensively engaged in this long-term care. We speak to them as often as the hospitals to see what we can do about support. I am prepared to provide any additional support. I just think that the sum total of what we are doing is actually exactly what we need to do for the people in long-term care. That is not just about taking measures, because we are taking them. It is also about providing support for being tested as soon as possible. It's also about thinking along about how to scale down responsibly, although I don't really like that term. Because it's not really about scaling. But how can you choose between what you do and what you don't do anymore when the level of infection among your staff is very high? That's the same way we hang out together. We will continue to work with the sector organisations on a hand-out. So I think we are really doing everything you could think of for long-term care, but if Mr Kuzu would like to add another idea to that, I would be happy to work on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u293	I would like to thank the Minister for his warm words about the fight against loneliness and mental resilience, which we all call for. I'd like to tell him two things. One is that the target group to which we want to come along and in which we want to drive out loneliness is much wider than alone, traditionally, the elderly. That's the coalition One against loneliness. Actually, it's all of us. I also liked what was said in the press conference, for example, about young people, because a great deal is being asked of them. Something is being asked of all of us, including looking after each other. So the wider that coalition and the bigger that commitment, the more beautiful we can get through those dark months of November and December. That's one. The target group is much wider and that coalition should therefore also be much wider and I think that is possible. Two is that the resources can also be used more widely. I am thinking, for example, of the public and commercial broadcasters, which are nevertheless very large platforms and which could encourage us all to do something very beautiful for each other, so that we can indeed go with some lightness and with some hope towards the December month and towards Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u294	I very much agree with Mr Segers. Maybe I agree with him extra because of all those stories from the past period of people in care. They say, "We felt supported in the first wave. Then the vases couldn't be dragged for all the flowers we got. We ate our kilos thicker on all the chocolate we got then. When we look at the second wave, we are mainly talking about whether there should be no security during the visitor's time. That feels very different." You'll hear it back from everyone in the care. I very much hope that we will be able to start something of a social movement that will enable us to get that feeling of together and seeing each other again during the first wave of the month of December. So I'd really like to work on that in that way. I am also counting on Mr Segers' commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u295	I know that there are plans at #not only ready to deal with it very big. That conversation is about to take place. The Minister says: I will return to that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u296	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u297	But wouldn't it be an idea to visit the public and commercial broadcasters and ask what, among other things, this initiative, again, should really be a much wider role, how they could mobilise people and how they could join? Because if we can reach people with anything, it's media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u298	Sure. That sounds like a very nice suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u299	I suggest you finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u300	Of course after the cube of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u301	Okay. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u302	That's right. Otherwise the debate will not be finished. Mr Dijkhoff asked about the scenarios when a vaccine will be available. Next week we expect the advice of the Health Council on the prioritisation of target groups. This is an important step for implementation. Last time, I promised Mr Heerma that in the next letter I would give a detailed account of how we see the implementation of the vaccination before us. I asked the Health Council to see how we can protect the most vulnerable first, what role vaccination can play in this and in what order we should do that in order to protect the vulnerable first as best we can. You can think of people with vulnerable health, elderly people and people who work in healthcare. It seems to me that it is most logical for these groups to be the first to be addressed. I have always said that this vaccination phase is going to take quite a few months. You always get the deliveries in different batches and you have to see how you can protect the target groups you want to protect as soon as possible, how you can put them in the best possible strategy. Before the end of the month, I will return to the vaccination strategy we intend to implement. I can also comment on the question of where the Chamber of Parliament is supposed to be almost able to help Mr Dijkhoff's offer to remove regulatory obstacles. Moreover, at the moment, I cannot see where the real obstacles lie in regulation. There is always something of a delay due to the admission phase, but we do not want to remove those rules because it is important that no more flexible requirement should apply to safety. The standard requirements should simply apply, as they always do. But the process will be completed much faster. Then the mink in Denmark. I heard Mrs Ouwehand very well. It's a pretty serious issue. It is not so much about how we deal with the mink companies, because Mrs Ouwehand knows how to deal with them. The question is more: could it be that the mink virus has mutated and that it should then lead to another immunisation strategy if that mink virus jumps over people? As far as we can see now, this is not yet the case in the Netherlands. I would like to say to Mrs Ouwehand that I would like to return in writing to the question of how we could deal with this and whether that would require something extra from us. In addition, we will look very closely at how Denmark is doing. By the way, there are differences between the Netherlands and Denmark. I would like to return in writing to the questions she asked two weeks ago. So I guess I have one week left to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u303	Thank you, but you know I'm a little hesitant. I ask written questions not to burden the debate with everything, but if I have to wait three weeks each time in this crisis, I will of course use my speaking time to get the answers. It's very good that it's happening now, but I'd like to make the next appointment. It is precisely if we do not want to burden the debate and ask written questions that there must be more haste in future. My second question was as follows. It seems very good to me that, with the countries that have experience of this now, the Netherlands, Denmark and Poland have decided to ban mink farming in Europe to see how we can ensure that this risk disappears forever from at least Europe. I would like the cabinet to make a commitment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u304	Yeah, just a few things. First of all, those written questions. I think we get three, four sets of written questions a day. There are incredibly many questions asked to the department. I find it very admirable if we reach the three-week deadline. We don't make it very often, and I'm honest with you about that. Then I hope you will understand that we were first putting out a few questions and then answering them again. But these are on the roll. And it's a serious matter, so we're going to give it a thorough answer. We need to establish this response together with RIVM and also make real contact with Denmark to see what similarities and differences exist. Then about the content. Yes, you know how we handle mink farming. The mink farming will cease to exist in the Netherlands after this year. That has a reason, namely that we see that mink can form a reservoir. This is not so much a short-term risk, which is mainly a long-term risk. In the short term, as I have explained to you more often, the risk of being infected by the neighbor is really greater than the risk of being infected by a mink. Especially with the contagion rate at the moment, nothing is our greatest risk. Nevertheless, we must be precise. That is also why we asked the OMT-Z, the OMT for zoonoses, how to deal with this. We followed the advice from the OMT-Z seamlessly until the end of the entire mink farming in the Netherlands. I believe that we have taken the most thorough measure that could be taken to stop mink farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u305	All nice, but that wasn't my question. When, after many years of discussion, this Chamber decided to ban mink farming for ethical reasons, with the choice of a 10-year transitional period, the Animal Party immediately said: if we shut it down in the Netherlands, it will be so fair towards the mink breeders here if we also do our best to get it banned in Europe. The Chamber then adopted a motion for a resolution on this matter, and it was strongly in favour of it. Now the cabinet has asked the European Commission exactly once whether it would feel that way. The European Commission said no at the time. Once. Well, I know European issues where this cabinet is trying with more effort and more fire to get what we think is fair and fair. Now that corona crisis is added. The simple question is: go in consultation with your European colleagues to see how we can ensure that the whole of the European Union is free from mink breeding? Then it was an argument that it is fair to our own entrepreneurs, now there is an additional argument because of corona. So why isn't the cabinet willing to do that? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u306	Let's just see how we deal with it. We see a risk in the Netherlands with mink holders. We in the Netherlands ensure that we are properly informed about the risk and what measures fit in with it. We have taken over all the measures we have been advised to take. So that's the first line. I believe that we have done for the Netherlands exactly what Mrs Ouwehand has actually wanted for a very long time. The cessation of mink farming has also been highlighted. That's one. The second is the question of whether you are also an international player. The answer is yes, from the risk to public health. You asked a set of questions about this. We're gonna answer that in a good way. We hope to be able to do so as soon as possible. In doing so, we will also understand ourselves with our Danish colleagues, to see what the choices they make there. But I do think it is up to the national Member States within the European Union to make their own choices. By the way, if I follow the reports from Denmark in such a way, I suspect that there are similar choices to those made in the Netherlands. I therefore have no reason to assume that Denmark will be very relaxed or relaxed; I honestly think that we will look at it in the same way as we look at it in the Netherlands. So I think that is what Mrs Ouwehand has been trying to do for quite some time. Is it true that you could dictate from the Netherlands that a national Member State is only for a few moments turning its back on a particular industry elsewhere in the European Union? No, it doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u307	I would like to make a comment on the minks and slaughterhouses. The questions will be answered but these questions will be addressed in every debate on corona. So what if they just get answered right for once? Otherwise, we will start the debate next time, and then we will discuss the rest at another time. 'Cause it comes back every time. Last time, other colleagues also said something about this. At some point it just needs to be done, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u308	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u309	I think if we look back in about ten years on how that went with the corona crisis, this has indeed been one of the memorable red threads. I'd like to ask the Minister not to faint. No one here has asked whether the Dutch cabinet would like to dictate to another European Member State what to do. The simple question is, and we often ask it: 'Try to work in the European Union for something that we think is sensible here. See if you can convince others, too. See what we could do together to overcome this public health risk, which European summits are about." I'm asking the cabinet to act on this. And then the Minister of VWS reacts very faintly with: yes, but the Netherlands cannot. No, I didn't ask. I said, just agitate it. I think that would be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u310	In my view, I have indicated to the President that we are making genuine efforts to answer the questions as well as possible. But it happens sometimes that you disagree. That is the reason to ask the question again or to ask it again. It must also be possible for you to disagree. By the way, when it comes to the speed of answering questions, we try to keep as much time as possible. But yet I ask for some understanding...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u311	I'm not going into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u312	For some understanding, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u313	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u314	I think I have one more question here, about vitamin D. Does that help, Mr Krol asks? It certainly helps. If you have a vitamin D deficiency, it'll help anyway. For the rest, there are still a lot of studies to see what the actual contribution is in terms of more protection and strengthening the immune system. There is therefore no definitive answer to that question. Mr President, that was it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u315	Yeah, I see it. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the questions from the Chamber, which I have divided into matters around the regular care and people working in the care, some specific questions about the bonus and two more questions about personal protective equipment and about the general practitioner. I would point out that a number of questions have already been answered by those who spoke for me in the debate. I am not going to double up and use the lyrics again. In any case, I would have liked to have said here, especially since it was in the contributions of many of your Members, that it is indeed all hands on deck in the care. In the previous debate and also in the letters we exchanged that the second wave came sooner, faster and also different than the first wave. We do not want regular care to suffer irreparably from this wave either. It puts a lot of pressure on the care. I also understand very well that your Chamber has asked questions about this. For example, Mr Wilders asked questions about the health offensive. He has indeed had an exchange of views with the Prime Minister on the financial component of this, but also on the care staff, at least the part concerning the care reserves. I thought that was a nice part of the first-term debate. I am going to make sure that we will respond from the cabinet. Mr Wilders had also asked a number of other questions about the numbers of people in care. He asked how big the deficits are, how many people actually work, how long those deficits will be resolved and how exactly that happens. It is very difficult to point out with a finger exactly how many people work where in health care. But to give a picture: in the first quarter of 2020, around 220,000 employees worked in hospitals, about 78,000 in the umc's and about 435,000 in the nursing and care sector. The exact size of the deficits is unknown. This is known to the responsible parties in the field. But it is clear to everyone that these deficits are large across the board. It is also clear that we certainly cannot resolve this shortage of nurses and nurses in the short term. That's just not realistic. That's why we put people where they're most needed and we're looking for ways to supplement people. I've informed the Chamber about this through temp agencies and through extra hands for care. Mr Wilders' plan, which has been adopted by other groups or suggested by other groups, could also be a very good suggestion to work out. We have made a lot of preparations and are scaling up, but now we need to ensure that people are actually deployed by organisations. We are indeed looking with the Working in Care committee who is available and what can be reduced when it comes to what people are asked to do. To be even more specific in terms of figures, we make an annual forecast of the expected staff shortages in the different branches and per occupation. We have a general consultation on the labour market in healthcare on 12 November. I will inform the Chamber for that general consultation of the results of the new prognosis. Then we have the most up-to-date data available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u317	I would like to take a quick look at the Minister in connection with the interruptions. How did you build your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u318	Most of the questions relate to each other and are about regular care and employees in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u319	I shall go first to Mrs Sazias and then to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u320	I have made a proposal to the Minister that pension funds should be included in the care because they have most of the data on staff who are retired and who may be able to re-enter it temporarily. I was curious to see what the Minister thinks of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u321	I thought that was an interesting suggestion. This has also happened before in a pilot, also in the context of getting more people into care. We are now looking again with Pension Fund Care and Welfare or this fits within the privacy rules, because that's what you're dealing with. But if that's possible, I'd like to get that going as soon as possible. I thought that was a very interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u322	Thank you to the Minister for giving an update for the AO, because we may not fully agree here. My group actually believes that this should be known and that, if it is not known, you could ask the field how big these deficits are. We can't do that ourselves. If you don't know how big the deficit is, it's hard to say you can't fix it or how you do it. Anyway, maybe that'll come to the general meeting next week. Thank you for your kind words about our plan. I would like to mention briefly three proposals, not so much to get more people, because that is of course very much needed, but also to use the existing staff more so that you do not have to recruit new people. The first is the part-time factor. We've talked about that a lot. In the meantime, the part-time factor is 0.68 in the care sector. If you were to increase that from 0.68 to 0.8, it would save 220,000 jobs. Those are huge numbers. If you do half of it, it'll save 100,000 jobs. Of course, you need a financial bonus for that. People must at least improve on it. If you do that, you can do a lot. The second is the overhead. You're talking about managers going to the workplace. In your letter of last Friday, for which thanks to the Chamber, you write that you recommend this, but you actually ask managers to have managers work on the floor. So this requires a little more guidance than asking the people who have to do it. The third concerns the low-level institutions. We've talked about that a lot. Don't let people fill out forms for everything so those same people can do more work. These are therefore three concrete proposals, which are separate from labour market AO policy, which concerns more people: providing incentives to increase the part-time factor, a little more steering at the overhead than asking managers and providing low-level institutions. You can do a lot more with the same people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u323	I agree with Mr Wilders. The part-time factor shows that there is a very concrete fear of losing bonuses. Still, that fear doesn't always come true. So one of the things we did before that is set up the calculator so that people can see it. As far as I am concerned, this could be a very large profit factor. As far as the involvement of managers in the workplace is concerned, my experience is that there is already a lot of enthusiasm for this. I have almost weekly, sometimes daily, contacts and consultations with all kinds of sectors, so I can imagine putting that on the agenda there for once. Given how we work, there is already a great deal of autonomy in the organisations themselves. This often has advantages, such as tailor-made solutions. Sometimes you wish you could just say "you will" and that it will be taken over. But the subject is very appealing to me. I also think it can offer a lot of solace. So I'll set it up for my next meeting. I must honestly admit that my knowledge of the low-level settings is not entirely up-to-date. I remember it from a while back. But I will dive into it and come back to how I can deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u324	Finally, on this point. The Minister is right that we do not have a National Health Service as in the United Kingdom, where a minister can say: it should be like this and tomorrow it will be like this. Such a system, whatever you think of it, we don't have. So your options may be limited, but I am pleased that you are putting the overhead on the agenda and that you are looking into the very poor institutions. At that first point there is really a lot of profit to be gained. Again, a 0.1 higher part-time factor and you have hundreds of thousands of extra jobs. You have to handle this creatively: you either have to give them a bonus or make sure they don't lose their fees. I know the Minister, and I have spoken about this a few debates earlier, which is complicated, but there is the most profit to be made. So perhaps try to show a little more creativity there, to see how that can be done better. I think that's a very reasonable question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u325	Let me make the next appointment with Mr Wilders, and I think many share the concern with him. I am not going to address this issue on the basis of why it can't be done, but how it can be done. I'd like to get back to that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga asked about the preparation and scaling up around the ic. Last week we also had an exchange of views on this. He is not in the Chamber now, at least I do not see him, but I will answer this question anyway, because this subject keeps coming back. I would like to emphasise that hospitals have done everything they can to shape the scaling-up of ic and clinical capacity according to the scaling-up plans. I would also like to say that the numbers from the draft plan are actually 550 ic-beds and 1,100 clinical beds extra as of 1 January, with corresponding staff members really very ambitious. Most importantly, we continue to focus on the quality of care for both the patients receiving regular care and the patients receiving covid care. I do not think that a higher scale than what is currently being worked on is realistic. I therefore believe that it is also very good that the cabinet has declared the additional measures and that we all adhere to them. This is also in the interest of entrepreneurs. A number of times, also in previous debates, Mr Van Haga mentioned the number of 2,200 ic-beds. This can be found on a website of the RIVM. That number is true, but it is not only about ic-beds but also about beds in related departments, such as the medium care or the First Heart Aid. The actual number of operational beds in intensive care was around 1,200 beds per year between 2013 and 2018. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen referred to the charcoal sketch. Indeed, this is a document that outlines the acute care landscape in the future. I would like to stress here that this is not yet a fact. It is a document that has gone into consultation and that we are talking about with the field. In particular, it is a question of making the acute care landscape truly future-proof. In this charcoal sketch it says that only the really high-complex care is concentrated and that you do so based on quality rather than proximity. This may mean that people have to travel for high-complex care, but that the vast majority of care can take place nearby, in the vicinity of people. So it could even mean more locations for acute care. Where exactly these emergency services and emergency services for this high-complex acute care should come from, there is still a need to be worked out. That consultation, which has been initiated, runs until 1 January 2021. Then we're gonna pool all the responses. I'd be happy to offer it to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u326	I asked because I think it is a very bad signal at this time, in which we see it in such a way that a pinched care beeps and cracks when it is very necessary. If you look into that so-called charcoal sketch... sorry, Mr. Chairman, I really didn't come up with that word. Neither does the minister, she says. Well, then I say that that plan states that a better organisation of acute care should contribute to the manageability of care costs. I would really like to impress the cabinet on this: please, don't do that. Because if we learn one thing from the corona crisis, it's really necessary to invest in our care and not to squeeze our care even further. There is once again great unrest at a hospital, I say from my mind: the Beatrix Hospital, because emergency services may have to close there. We've seen that in many places in the past few years. So I would really like to appeal to the cabinet: don't do that. My specific question is whether the Minister can at least promise today that no further emergency aid or hospitals will be closed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u327	I think the name "wood charcoal sketch" is because my predecessor, Minister Bruins, was very good at drawing. I can't. So I didn't come up with that name either, but I can place the name very well now. I think it is important to really establish that this subject lives widely in the field. The field also needs to talk about that. There is therefore a consultation before us, but no more than that. That guarantee would mean that the decisions that are being taken on this matter, as is happening now and which are also based on quality criteria, would be put on hold. I don't think that's the question. Especially as it is now, it's just all hands on deck. But I can't take a trip out of how things normally are. It seems to me to be a special situation if that were to happen now, but I cannot make a statement of principle about it. What I can say is that, at the time we have the reactions to this system discussion, we are also discussing this with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u328	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u329	Mr. Chairman. Mr Segers cut a very relevant issue, as far as I am concerned, to which the Prime Minister has also said something: how can we stand alongside the people in the care and help them? I tasted that he also referred to the issue of aggression. For many years now, I have been concerned about this subject. I would also like to say in this Chamber in this debate that aggression is unacceptable at all times. Apart from the actions that we can take and which are aimed at the industries... I spoke on this subject last Monday, for example, in consultation with the employers' and employees' representatives. In doing so, we have agreed that we are going to take a sectoral approach, where we are really going to see what the needs in the sector are, what the people who work there, the caregivers, need, how the sector funds can respond to them and how we can address bottlenecks. I think that that is an approach that stands, but it is also extremely important that I should like to say here that this is being discussed in the workplace itself. I myself made a work visit to a hospital, where the board of directors is talking about this very easily, with people from the surveillance, with the people at the hospital entrance to draw people's attention to the rules, with people from the emergency room, with people who answer the phone. It's really terrible what people get into their heads while they're standing there helping other people. We can make an industry approach, and that's all necessary, but the most important thing is that you know that you are supported on your own work floor by your colleagues and that you have a manager, a supervisory board and a colleague who wants to back you up, and that as colleagues you set a standard among yourselves. If one thinks it's part of the job and lets it slip away, it lowers the standard for his colleague to something you should be able to have. If we tell each other it's unacceptable, then we'll have to take those actions. For example, I have had discussions with the Minister of Justice to see if we can broaden the approach for public sector employees, reducing the threshold for reporting. In the end, it also stands or falls with the conversation people have themselves. It's hard and terrible when you hear that you can't be helped in the hospital you've been used to because you need to be spread out, but I'm calling on everyone to please put their backs on each other. Let us be kind and good to our people, who are ready for us day and night. Mr. Chairman. A question about standing side by side... so I take it from Mr. Van der Staaij about the arrangements for care outside the hospital. Mr Kuzu also referred to this in the debate he had with Minister De Jonge. When it comes to the taxability of care, we pay a great deal of attention to that issue. I informed the Chamber on 23 October of the temporary supplementary measures. We have made agreements with hospitals, but also with the general practitioners, the independent treatment clinics and the vvt sector. For example, self-employed clinics can help to relieve hospitals when it comes to urgent planned care, but they may also let their people go to hospitals. In the region, they decide what is the best way. We are actually looking at measures such as the concentration of covid patients within regions, or even at national level. This is the result of the motion by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Veldman last week. I understand that this motion has been passed, so that is an additional driver. We are also very much in the process of bringing more people to the care of Mr Wilders. We also look explicitly at the possibilities of digital care. So it is an important subject. Mr. Chairman. I have received questions from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen about the health bonus. She says: the phone is red-hot and actually it is not possible to apply for that bonus within the time limit. We have said on our website that we cannot always answer quickly, but we have advised everyone and recommended the institutions to submit applications before November 6th, even if they are not entirely sure if it is all right. We can still make corrections after 6 November. We have already had a number of exchanges of views on the target group. It is important to emphasise here that it is up to the healthcare provider to indicate who is eligible for that bonus. A lot of room has just been left, because the healthcare provider knows best. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks if the application period can be extended again. We initially opened it until October 29th. The application deadline was extended last week until 6 November 2020. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has been very hard on this. At first I weighed her signals a little less heavy, but last week I also gave her a little bit of "I hope she experienced that as a horseman" and said: "We are going to do that." The reason for this was that we wanted to give employers in particular time to make applications for third parties. We now notice that healthcare providers are actually applying in large numbers. We see in those applications that about a third of the applications relate to people who are zzp'er, temp or hired cleaner. As far as I am concerned, this enlargement has an effect. At the bottom of the line, healthcare providers have had five weeks to submit their application. That is why I would not like to go on extending the window. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen also mentioned pgb-funded institutions in her contribution. She says that people working for pgb-funded institutions are covered by the schemes, but others are excluded. Indeed, healthcare professionals working through a healthcare provider on the basis of the subsidy scheme may be eligible for the bonus. They must, of course, meet the conditions. For the pgb care provider we make a separate development of the grant scheme with a separate deadline for applying. I aim to have that effect ready in February. I realize it's late, but I've seen the criteria for that coming through the week and I've noticed that that's not that easy. We'd like to do it right. We really want people to be eligible for this and it is more complex than the other bonus scheme. We're working hard on it. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a single question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u330	Thank you for the Minister's reply. There's a few things going wrong. I have spoken to a few healthcare providers today, including one who works with about 2,000 healthcare providers, some of whom work as a zzp or temp. That spokesperson says: yes, it would be nice if you could table a motion to ensure that temporary employment agencies can apply for the health bonus for temporary agency workers, because we cannot do that as a care institution. The temporary employment agencies are not allowed to do so because they are not a health care institution. Now I read in one of the documents that the Ministry has made available the list of frequently asked questions and the answers to them that care institutions should indeed apply for the bonus for those agency workers and that there is no need at all to refer them to the agency. I am afraid that such large institutions are still making mistakes and that is why a large group of temporary workers orzzp'ers is still out of the boat. This is one of many examples I have. I can send them all to you, officially. I'm worried about that. The NBBU also says: we have told all the institutions to apply for it for thosezzp'ers and freelancers, but one week is really too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u331	In its entirety, the scheme has been open for five weeks, plus the route prior to which all the information has been provided. I very much agree with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. We also made that call together last week; ask for it, also for the people who were not on your payroll but did work for you, thezzp'ers and the flex workers. At some point we must also take stock of the situation. There's really been a lot of requests, but quite frankly, it might be a little bit domestic, I'm assuming that you have a HR department that can handle these kinds of processes, if you have 2,000 employees. As far as I am concerned, implementation must also be possible at some point. I very much appreciate Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's commitment, but I am not going to accept her proposal to leave the window open for longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u332	I understand. Then I have another example of those pgb-funded care institutions. The big problem here is that it has not been clear to the pgb carers who work for such an institution for a long time that there is no separate regulation for them, but that they fall within the current regime. It's only been two weeks. That has also been communicated to the health care institutions. But I don't see anywhere on the website that healthcare institutions can also apply for the pgb care staff. Because they do not have to wait for next February's arrangement. They're gonna fall out there. I'm afraid these employees are really gonna fall out of the boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u333	I think that with the extra opening of a week that could have been catching up. Once again, at some point, we must say: to this point we can open up. And then we're gonna have to make a payment. As far as I'm concerned, it should be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u334	One last attempt. I know that with the GGZ dome, GGZ Nederland, a separate arrangement was discussed at the Ministry. They can make an estimate based on the number ofzzp'ers and freelancers they have at work. Later, after the deadline has been closed, they will be able to provide further administrative details. Would the Minister also make this scheme available to all other health care institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u335	Let me at least say this: I do want to keep it manageable and enforceable. It's really big numbers. What was agreed with GGZ Nederland was aimed at the payment of the bonus, not so much at the application procedure. I just indicated that our website says: ask him at least and if you don't have him fully, you can add it later. But we also need to keep it a little executable. I honestly think five weeks plus all the information should be enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u336	Mrs Van Kooten-Ariës, really last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u337	I have from GGZ Nederland in the mail in writing the appointment as it was made with the Ministry. He didn't mind asking for the bonus. It is about honesty and equal appreciation and equal opportunity to apply for it. The Minister, but also the Prime Minister, agreed with me that anyone entitled to the health bonus should actually get that bonus. So I would like to ask the Minister one more time: will you please ensure that everyone gets that equal opportunity? If institutions that are affiliated to GGZ Netherlands are given that opportunity, other healthcare institutions should also have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u338	I think it is a wonderful initiative to show people the appreciation in the financial sense. At the same time, how is the proverb to lie between dream and reality always laws and other practical objections. Something like that. You know what I mean. We are dealing with a number of practical points. For example, there is the execution. Nor can we deposit unsolicited money into Dutch bank accounts. That needs to be requested. The procedure we have put in place for this has been brought as much as possible into line with reality. We've been communicating tremendously about that. We've asked people: ask them. We made it as easy as we could. And then, at some point, the moment we say: now closes the window and we go to the payout. I cannot make a further proposal to extend that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u339	I think everything has been said about this, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. At some point, you will have to say something about this by means of a motion or in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u340	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm definitely gonna do that. I just wanted to say that the Ministry's dream is that all those caregivers, all those care heroes, are now ready in the second wave to get our loved ones healthy. But the reality is that those care workers really are walking on their gums with their last energy. They are now confronted with the second wave and then again the bonus for a lot of people stays out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u341	I think you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u342	We certainly do not disagree on that. I'm getting the right text by now. I always saw this part of the text on a building in Rotterdam, but now I have the whole text of the poem. I'll never say it wrong again. For the sake of time, I go to the two questions I have left. That is not actually a question from Mr Kuzu, but I wanted to take it up, because I think it is a very important subject. That's about the personal protective equipment outside the hospital. In particular, he referred to the district care and the nursing home sector. Last week I had discussions with the profession, the workers and various sectors, both hospitals and non-hospital sectors, on the importance of personal protective equipment. There has been a lot of debate about this in the Chamber. The RIVM Directive has been transposed by the sectors. There has recently been an adjustment because the practice showed that there was uncertainty. They have sat around the table, the profession, the workers' association and the sectors. Everything has been made so that it also fits the practice. The principle that the RIVM has indicated is that in certain prevalence personal protective equipment is used preventively, unless someone professionally says: I don't do it, because... that is a professional consideration. I have indicated that the role of the Minister is not to find any of that, but that I agree with it. Then we have two points in practice. One point was the supply. Stock's in order. We've got sheds full of them. We've asked Accenture to run a background check and do stress tests. We can handle three waves. There was one personal protective equipment under pressure, but there too we seem to have found a solution. The second point was that there were signals, for example from the trade unions, that people did not receive personal protective equipment from their employer, or that group pressure was experienced because one is the only one who would like to use the resources. For this reason, I have had another discussion over the past week, because I think that is a bad thing. The importance of safety is shared by employers, workers, the profession and the public authorities. We made a deal about that. From the sectors it has been said: if you get signals, please report it to us, because we are going directly to them ourselves. In addition, I would also like to make that clear here: at the moment when someone does not feel heard by his employer, report it to the inspection. We are up here and safety is of the utmost importance. That is why I wanted to raise that point. I have kept the last question to the last, because I hope it will stick even more. That is Mrs Sazias' question about how we can actively call on people to go to the general practitioner in the event of complaints. This is perhaps the most important point for me today. This is what the Federation of Medical Specialists says, and whatever the general practitioners say: we can only make the medical assessment or need people care when we see them, if we have contact with them. Maybe you can't go to practice, but you can make a phone call, and with video calls, there's a lot to do. A balancing framework has been created by the medical specialists to ensure that acute critical care can be provided, but that can only be seen as people. So it's really crucial what Mrs. Sazias said. We have made all kinds of means. We have information cards. The Patient Federation is also very active in communicating. The health insurance companies do what they can, as well as the National General Medical Association. But I would like to make a final comment here in my first term, unless of course there are any questions: please, if you have something, please contact the GP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u343	Thank you. I see Mr Jetten and Mrs Sazias. Very briefly, because you also have a second term. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u344	I hope the Minister can shed some light on this. Early this morning I had parents who were very happy that the swimming lessons could go on for their children. But I understand in the course of the debate that this is not the case. I would like to clarify this. We keep the schools open for the sake of the children. Sporting up to 17 years remains possible, also in the interests of sport, exercise and health. But the funny thing is that the swimming lesson, which is a bit of education and a bit of sport and exercise, should not continue because of the overall pool closure. I wonder if the Minister will regret that and perhaps make those swimming lessons possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u345	I'm sure it's a shame. But in the consideration to make a total package, the swimming tires are indeed closed for two weeks. That is something we all regret, but I think it is important for the overall package that we take sufficient measures to contain the virus. And this one's part of it. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u346	Mrs. Sazias, at the middle microphone. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u347	I am very pleased that the Minister is also the last to mention this and says how important it is for people to go to the general practitioner. I even have a motion ready to ask the cabinet to communicate this really actively. I do not think that this Minister always does the press conferences, but if I could get a promise that the next press conference, which millions of people will be looking at, will once again be communicated that people should not delay the visit to the general practitioner, then I do not have to table that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u348	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u349	This motion has already been taken over, Mr President, and it has not even been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u350	Look. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Considering the time three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the scaling-up of 400 clinical hospital beds and 200 ic beds will be reversed when the current corona pandemic is over;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain a structural reserve of ic-beds and clinical hospital beds in order to better cope with future pandemics and disasters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-690]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u352	Next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to turn into a curfew, as this is a disproportionate measure of freedom restricting the fight against corona, because according to the OMT it has no medical basis, but is merely intended to stimulate a sense of urgency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-691]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u353	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the important point of the national reserve of care workers. I have extended it with the Prime Minister and exchanged it with the Minister of Medical Affairs. It would be very good if we in the Netherlands had a national care reserve for a disaster, just as we have the national reserve in the army. Fortunately, the Cabinet is willing to investigate that. To emphasize that again, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the introduction of a national reserve for healthcare workers, who can be deployed during a pandemic, disaster or terrorist attack, and to inform the Court of its findings in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-692]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u354	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u355	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma. No, I don't. Let me take a look at Mr Jetten. No, it's not. Mr. Clover? I call Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u356	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new corona measures affect socially and economically weaker people disproportionately;]] [[Whereas the closure of neighbourhoods and libraries particularly affects the most vulnerable people in society, people with little resources to engage in other activities, for whom libraries and neighbourhoods are important places for social contact and self-development;]] [[calls on the government not to carry out generic closure of community centers and libraries during the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-693]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u357	Since this is a motion on the measures to be taken tonight, in about 20 minutes' time, I have the request to vote on this on a political basis this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u358	Okay. Good to know. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u359	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet calls for "stay home as much as possible" but that this is not possible for homeless people;]] [[noting that, during the first wave, the national directive provided for municipalities to regulate permanent shelter for homeless people and to compensate financially for these efforts;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is currently making arrangements with municipalities to open reception for at least two weeks for all, for which municipalities are also compensated;]] [[Whereas housing is a basic requirement and it should be possible for anyone entitled to receive reception;]] [[calls on the Government to make further arrangements with municipalities and to support them as long as necessary for the co-vid measures;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that municipalities keep an eye on the people who are now in the picture and speed up their work towards a suitable place of residence, in line with the broad approach of homelessness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-694]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas proposed corona measures may have far-reaching effects on public health, society and the economy;]] [[considers that an understanding of the effects for the House of Representatives is crucial for the careful consideration of the measures to be taken;]] [[calls on the Government to make the intended effects on public health, society and the economy clear and quantify as much as possible in the case of proposed measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas migrant workers are at risk and the OMT therefore recommends that they closely associate themselves with the report "No second-class citizens" of the Chasing Team led by Emile Roemer;]] [[noting that the Chasing Team also advises for safety reasons: "1 person per bedroom and at least 15 square meters of living space per person";]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to convert this opinion into policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-695]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-696]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u361	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to allow (partial) closure of hospitals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that quarantine is mandatory after notification of the source and contact research and notification of the CoronaMelder app, but testing without complaints is not allowed;]] [[Whereas the 10-day quarantine period, even without complaints, is difficult for many people;]] [[invites the government to start testing without any complaints following notification of the source and contact investigation and the CoronaMelder app as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-697]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-698]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u362	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research shows that the learning disadvantage of many children has increased significantly in families with low-skilled parents;]] [[Whereas students or people who do not have a job (temporarily) would be able to assist in the education of these children;]] [[believes that every effort should be made to prevent and reduce educational disadvantages;]] [[calls on the Government to send a concrete proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible on how these children can be assisted and prevented from learning late,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of groups of people are more vulnerable, to become infected with the corona virus and to maintain life with necessary measures against corona;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities, to identify what this group of people still needs, both in terms of (practical support for) the prevention of infections and the maintenance of the restrictions of the measures, and in how this is dealt with jointly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-699]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Sazias, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-700]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u363	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rulers for the answers they have given. I co-signed two motions. First of all, that of Mr Marijnissen about extra care and protection for migrant workers and their living conditions and the motion for additional help for homeless people. I'd like to mark two commitments. There will be consultations on the campaign to combat loneliness. Thank you for that. We are also going to look at how we are using the Roadmap and whether, with the wisdom of today and with what we have done last week, we can look at it again to work on the predictability of the Roadmap and the measures. Thank you for that. Finally, Madam President. "Between dream and deed there are laws and practical objections." I'm very happy to say that's from a poem by Willem Elsschot. I know that! The case is that I have a collection of all Mr Elsschot's poems. I have that bundle, which contains all kinds of backgrounds, and I can tell you that it ends horribly. So a small profit warning! But if the cabinet is interested in borrowing that bundle, it is to be borrowed. The Minister of Medical Care will report to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u364	Thank you, Mr Segers. I'm curious, too. Now Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Party for Animals. How many motions do you have? One!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u365	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of VWS predicts that I will quote Lucebert: everything of value is defenseless. Oh, that was the Minister of Medical Care. That doesn't matter, Mr. Young One, because "everything of value is defenseless" is a truth like a cow. Mr. Chairman. If you don't get an answer, you've obviously asked a very difficult question. But I'm hanging in there, and the Cabinet can think about the following questions for two weeks. In any case, it is important for the cabinet to follow the OMT recommendations, for example those on vulnerable people in slaughterhouses. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the OMT, migrant workers remain a risk group for outbreaks of COVID-19;]] [[noting that the GGDs and RIVM are dependent on notifications from the companies where migrant workers work for this risk group;]] [[noting that the OMT therefore recommends a reporting obligation for companies with COOVID-19 clusters among employees;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a reporting obligation for companies with COVID-19 clusters among employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-701]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u366	Mr. Chairman. Then a little more serious. You can say about questions that are not answered of course: well, then the questions will not be answered. But these are very big risks. The Party for Animals asked questions about the zoonoses risk in the Netherlands at an early stage and then we got the answer that good supervision is being carried out. Now we know that since March, there has been a report in the VWS ministry as well, which shows that that supervisor can't do his job at all and that there is an extra high risk that viruses can jump on people when an animal disease breaks out, without us noticing it. So that needs to be dealt with urgently. If we keep looking away from these problems, then this has only been a dress rehearsal and we really cannot do that to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u367	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the rulers for their reply. I'd like to file one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is always necessary to assess whether the measures taken to combat the virus outweigh their far-reaching social consequences;]] [[Whereas, therefore, funerals have so far been deliberately excluded from group size restrictions, as it is very hard not to be able to say goodbye to lovers;]] [[Whereas according to the Roadmap, the maximum group size limit in case of lockdown is set at 100 persons;]] [[requests that, as long as a temporary maximum group size limit of 30 persons is applied, the possibility of exemption from the 30 person rule remains possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-702]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u369	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add that with this possibility of an exemption, I am in line with the system adopted in the Corona Act. That law offers the possibility of a weighting by the mayor in the event that first and second degree family members from a somewhat larger family could not be present. In that case, the mayor might consider making an exception. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u370	You had one motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u371	I had one motion, and in the case of this motion, too, it would be obvious to vote on it on a political basis this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u372	So we have two motions to vote on. Thank you. I now turn to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u373	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for the first-term replies they have given. I'll move on to the motions soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to announce any regional tightening if there is no reduction in contamination;]] [[calls on the government to use targeted regional measures, such as more intensive communication, to avert regional tightening;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-703]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u374	And if that really doesn't work, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to announce any regional tightening if there is no reduction in contamination;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up regional support measures to support the people, entrepreneurs and municipalities affected by these possible regional reinforcements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-704]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u375	I had two more motions that I am not going to table, because the VWS Minister has indicated that he will at least come up with a letter about that terrible word. I think it was "body ownership." I hear Minister De Jonge say: the Law controls body material. Yeah, that sounds pretty good already. At least I'm expecting a letter on that. If the Minister can indicate in his second term when I can expect that letter, I am entirely happy and I do not have to table this motion. I thank the Minister for Medical Care for the answers she has given on protective equipment. I'll direct the signals I'm getting to the inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u376	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have signed a motion by Mr Asscher asking to see how extra vulnerable people can be better supported together with the municipalities. I am very pleased with the Minister's commitments, including the commitment to contact the Health and Welfare Pension Fund to see how we can temporarily ask former employees back. Since this has been done before, it should be possible. That means I don't have to file this motion. I am even more pleased with the commitment that at the next press conference the Prime Minister or Minister De Jonge will actively ask people as often as necessary not to delay a visit to the general practitioner. That means I can also wrinkle this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u378	Will you take it with you? Thank you. Then I'll go to Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I have three more questions. Thanks to the rulers. I continue to hope that the cabinet will be able to remove the doubt that arose in a large audience after so many players at Ajax had been misdiagnosed, because I notice that this causes a lot of scepticism. I am pleased with the attention paid to vitamin B, which is particularly lacking in many elderly people. I am counting on the Minister to keep us informed of the investigations he was talking about. Oh, I hear I said "vitamin B." That's gotta be vitamin D. Thank you. Yes, very good. You guys are totally on to it again. Finally, I expect a solution for the poor communication between the commercial testers and the GGD, especially now that the GGD says: we are not a supervisor. My question is: who is the supervisor in that case? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u380	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u381	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, in line with the agreements with the Dutch ggz, to provide all healthcare providers with a wider health-care bonus application possibility forzzp'ers and freelancers and to actively communicate this to all healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, 475 Rv) and therefore the payroll not only sees on the regular salary, but also on bonuses, for example,]] [[calls on the Government to exempt the healthcare bonus from payroll,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-705]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-706]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u382	Mr. Chairman. American doctor Fauci has now stated that if more than 35 cycles are needed in a PCR test, the result is negative. So no contagion. So it is really wrong and it leads to unnecessary fear to wrongly equate a positive PCR test with an infection. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the Cabinet and various media use the term "contamination" in the case of a positive PCR test;]] [[Whereas a positive PCR test does not necessarily involve contamination with COVID-19 and the use of this term causes a lot of confusion and fear in our society;]] [[calls on the Government to stop using the term "contamination" immediately when a positive PCR test is carried out but from now on use another term, for example "a positive PCR test";]] [[calls on the Government to communicate clearly to the outside world that in the event of a positive PCR test, there should not necessarily be an infection with COVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-707]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u383	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u384	Mr. Chairman. I have two further commitments, one of which is included in the motions. The other is from DENK, about the hustle and bustle in the rush hour in public transport. I can respond by saying that all current measures are aimed at reducing the number of travel movements and contact moments, in particular, of course, the advice to stay home and work at home. The combined effect will therefore have a dampening effect on crowds in public transport. We monitor these developments weekly through the Minister of IenW. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 691 I'd like to dissuade. By the way, curfew is out of the question. It is not intended to encourage urgency, at least not exclusively, but also to ensure that enforcement and compliance with the rules improves, and is therefore not disproportionate. We have looked at the ECDC directives of 24 September 2020. The ECDC doesn't say curfew doesn't work. In fact, it says that a recent analysis of eight different non-pharmaceutical interventions in 41 countries shows that such a curfew leads to a reduction in reproduction, i.e. a reduction in the number of people moving by 18%. There is therefore a significant impact according to the ECDC, the European RIVM. Then the motion to part No. 693 on libraries...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u385	Mr Jetten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u386	I think it is true that the ECDC says that in cases where you have not closed down all the catering and have taken all kinds of other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u387	It says here: "A recent analysis of the effect of eight non-pharmaceutical interventions in 41 countries between January and May 2020 found that stay-at-home orders so a curfew reduced the reproduction number by 18% (4-31%)"... "Another study also concluded that there was limited added value to introducing stay-at-home orders as an addition," et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u388	Again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u389	Stay-at-home orders include, by the way, in the ECDC guidelines more than just a curfew. They also include all other variants of mandatory stay at home, such as the lockdown in France. So I am not saying that this curfew would also yield 18% in the Netherlands. It is form- and context-related, but it is not, according to the ECDC, doing nothing. That was Mr Wilders' statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u390	That wasn't my claim at all, but what you're saying is wrong. You are correcting it now, but you said at the beginning that it would lead to 18% less. A stay-at-home order is just a fat, fat full lockdown. It's also about daytime. It's about morning. It's about noon. That's about staying home forever. So it's at most a small percentage of that 18%. Your own advisor, the main advisor, Mr Van Dissel, said that it was for a very different reason and that they could not indicate how much it was. Again, we already have so many measures. You made a lot of them yesterday. This is not 18%, but maybe 1% or 2%. It is often about young people who have been seeing each other all day at school, so that too will have no extra effect. So just don't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u391	Then we go back to the point that it is not about raising the urgency. That's certainly not how RIVM advises it. It is precisely about compliance with the different enforcement rules. It is therefore not disproportionate and has an effect, not directly to be calculated in the R, but indirectly in compliance. I'm going to move on part number one. 693 by Mr Klaver. Exactly: the motion asks not to do so during the corona crisis. I want to read the motion in such a way that it means for two weeks, because you just can't make a commitment right now for after. Then he says "no generic closure." I'd like to interpret that in a manner of speaking. We maintain the take-out function in the libraries, but of course it is mainly about the community centers. I promised that to someone in your room, but I'm doing it on this motion now. Neighborhoods can be used for organised and private day-use for vulnerable people. So they can continue to be used for that purpose. That's one. The second is that individual care and support in the community centers remains possible by appointment. With that, the general generic walk-in function is closed, because that's what you want. But this means that the organised and private daily spending for vulnerable people, plus individual care and support by appointment, will remain unchanged. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it means 'no generic closure' and I also limit it to those two weeks 'and' then we can always fight again if it would be necessary later on; hopefully not' then the judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u392	As far as the two weeks are concerned, for that is what the measure is about. It would be a little weird on my part if I wanted to look further ahead. That is certainly not the intention. So that's definitely a deal. I want to include both the community centers and the libraries. Then it's about the fact that there could be organized activities there. I am also thinking of the homework classes that exist in some neighbourhood centres and libraries. If you understand it that way, it is exactly as I intended it to be, and I agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u393	No, homework classes... Mr. Klaver talks about organized homework classes. I'm talking to libraries about the take-out function of books. He says that also organized homework classes that use location organized and private for homework guidance. I think that's fine. I'll add that to how I interpret the motion. So it's the takeout function and that type of homework classes in a private setting and secondly the two cases I mentioned at the community centers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u394	I think we're in agreement. I'm not gonna end all the categories. The point is to ensure that these places remain available, but that it must be organised and decided. I think that is fantastic news for a lot of people in the Netherlands who use libraries and community centers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u395	We want to ensure that this general, generic running-in function stops. You can do it with this. What we all consider essential can be done with that. And that's very good. That brings me to the motion in part No. 699 by Mr Asscher and I also thought of Mr Heerma. The specific proposal referred to in the motion concerns a letter from the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media on educational disadvantages. That letter goes into everything OCW does in the field of educational disadvantage. That's not a new plan. It's coming this month. We see crisis jobs as a suggestion for education. A letter on the jobs of crisis comes before the Social Affairs budget on 17 November. With that remark, I would like to leave this motion for a resolution to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u396	You can't live in bullshit and in a letter from Slob you can't get rid of the learning disadvantages. I don't know what that letter says, but in that motion, Heerma and I are asking for a meeting between Koolmees and Slob to see if you can combine both initiatives, given the problems with the students. Of course we are waiting for the motion to be implemented, but to say already: there will be a letter containing a summary of what OCW is already doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u397	What I am doing is postponing my judgment on the motion, because the vote on this motion is Tuesday. In any case, I would ask Slob, possibly in agreement with Koolmees, to respond to this motion with an opinion, because I cannot completely oversee it. Is that okay? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u398	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u399	The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 702 asks for an exemption from the 30 person rule as an option so that customisation remains possible. It's up to the mayors to do that. I would like to add that this must remain an exceptional situation. If mayors are going to assign that generic, it's too big a risk. But if I may interpret the motion in such a way that those mayors have the space to give that exception in special circumstances, if I put it so much that something less heavy than "exceptional circumstances' is to give that exception, then I can live well with it and the judgment is Chamber. I see Mr Van der Staaij nodding yes, I say for the Acts. The Kuzu motion in part No. 703 deals with regional measures and so on. We do not rule out any measures in advance, so we do not have to tighten them up. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 704. In general, we always look at the impact. This will also apply to regional measures. That is what I said in the debate. It is said here that we must already make all kinds of plans for this, so I would also advise against the motion in part No. 704.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u400	Thank you. Wait a minute. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u401	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the motion in part No. 694 by Mr Klaver and Mr Segers on the guidance to a suitable place to live in in accordance with the broad approach to homelessness. On that motion, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, on the understanding that it concerns people who are entitled to a WMO facility, i.e. those who are entitled to it. This motion is in line with the approach taken by the Secretary of State of the United States of America. The motion in part No. 695 by Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher, the government requests that the proposed measures make the intended effects on public health, society and the economy as clear as possible and quantify them as much as possible. Of course, we do so as much as possible, and there is a limit to that. But if I can understand the motion as an effort to quantify those effects "as much as possible," then I can leave the judgement to the Chamber. Then I would ask Mrs Marijnissen for her motion on item No. 696 It is quite specific: one person per bedroom and at least 15 m of living space. The cabinet comes with a response to the advice of the chasing team led by Emile Roemer. That response will go in the direction of your Chamber on December 11th. In this response we will also comment on this opinion. I therefore ask Mrs Marijnissen to hold this motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u402	Yeah, with the hope that we'll get a response soon, we'll keep it on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u403	At the request of Mrs Marijnissen, I propose her motion (25295, No. 696 to be held. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u404	Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 698. I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber, referring to what we have exchanged in the first period. Then the motion to part No. Mr Asscher. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. With a number of comments which I have also made in the first term, I would like to leave the opinion to the Chamber. On a number of sub-topics, there is intensive contact with municipalities to work together, but on top of that, it is interesting to make a difference analysis of how municipalities deal with this: what do they do to try to prevent contamination as well as possible for vulnerable groups, and what could we learn from this? If I may read the motion in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 701 by Mrs Ouwehand. I'm going to dissuade them, because that's very far-reaching. There are all kinds of aspects that I cannot fully understand, including regarding privacy, data sharing and so on. But the intention behind this motion is linked to the question: can you please expect companies to have a proactive attitude towards infections, preventing infections and wanting to share it with the GGD in the sense of "with us it has gone wrong and what could we do about it?'. So I would like to make a commitment that I will look into how we can also use this cooperation platform that we now have to put companies to work more proactively when it comes to preventing contamination in their own environment. So I'm going to discourage the motion, but in return, I will make this commitment. Mr Van Haga has the motion in part No. 707 tabled. It invites the government to stop using the term "contamination" immediately in the event of a positive PCR test. It says on the dashboard: people tested positive per day. That is the term we use for that. In my view, this is extremely adequate and striking. The number of infectious people is then modelled by the RIVM and therefore has nothing to do with the PCR results. And the RIVM website also contains the number of positive tests. So I think we are extremely pure and crystal clear in what we call the outcome of such a PCR test. So there's no need to change that. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u405	Thank you. I see Mr Kuzu walking a little slow towards the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u406	It's late, Mr. Chairman, but I had asked when I could get that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u407	What letter is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u408	About that law and about saving...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u409	Oh, yeah, the law on body material.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u410	At the next progress letter, in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u411	In two weeks' time; now it's in the Acts. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u412	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to give a ruling on a number of motions from the Chamber. The very first motion, the motion in part No. 690, belongs to Mr Wilders. It's about a structural reserve of ic-beds and clinical hospital beds. I read this motion a bit in the light of: keep the scale that is there now. I would like to ask Mr Wilders whether that is true. We agreed that this scaling up is now there for the corona time and that after that we will see what is needed structurally. So to secure it at the current level, I don't think it's a good idea, because I think a certain degree of robustness and flexibility is needed to organise it for the future, but we need to see what is needed. I would like to avoid that we are only organised on the basis of yesterday's crisis. But if the motion is a call for the moment the corona crisis is over, to see what you need, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u413	Mr Wilders agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u414	Then I come to the motion on part No. 692 on the national care reserve. I think this is a very nice call. We are already building a healthcare reserve as part of the approach of the platform Extra hands for care. It would be nice to make that platform structural and then see how we can draw those lessons towards the future. So I'm giving this motion judgment, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen's motion on item No. 697 is about not allowing partial closure of hospitals. I don't think a ban on steering is the right thing to do. I do not expect this to be the case now, but it is now about the set of agreements, the system we have with each other. Because if there are problems with a hospital and if closure is to be discussed or discussed, then we simply need to look at what is going on. Then it is primarily, primarily and first of all, about ensuring the continuity of care for the patient in the region. And there's a duty of care for insurers. The most important thing is that patients can continue to receive care. I therefore advise against a ban on closure. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 705 by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on the ggz arrangements. I didn't make any different agreements about applying for the bonus. From VWS we did think about the issues when paying the bonus, especially for thezzp'ers. I can make those Q&As available to others, too, but I advise against this motion. The other motion by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, the motion in part No. 706 is a very difficult issue. At the bottom of the line, it turns out it can't be done. That is also why we have paid the gross amount and why people get the net. Mr President, those were my appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u415	What the Minister says about the motion in part No. 705, is wrong, because I just have in writing, black and white, which are the arrangements between the Ministry and the Dutch ggz. They have also communicated this to RTL News and have also posted it on their website. So maybe the Minister can take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u416	I am very willing to look at it, but this is what I am getting explicitly, especially in this second term. It was about agreements about the application procedure... well, I'm gonna mix them up myself. I'm not gonna interpret, but I didn't make any different appointments. I am very willing to confirm this once again with a letter, but the verdict for this motion remains "dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u417	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u418	Mr President, I would also like to make a point of order. My motion to extend the application period for the healthcare bonus was held with strike votes last Tuesday. The application deadline expires next Friday. I would therefore like to vote on it jointly and severally tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u419	Then I will see if there is a majority for that, so for a roll-call vote tomorrow on an detained motion. Who about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u420	Every Member of Parliament has, of course, the right to request a roll-call vote. It's only 10:45 now. We agreed we'd announce it a little sooner. I'm mainly thinking about how we're gonna get this organized tomorrow in an orderly way. I would therefore like to suggest that we just do it on Tuesday. We could have gotten this application earlier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u421	Mr Jetten's proposal is to do it on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u422	It is the right of every Member of Parliament to request a roll-call vote. I'm not saying now. I'm gonna say tomorrow. I do not think it should be a problem to hold a roll-call vote on this important motion tomorrow, on a regular Chamber Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u423	It also requires a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u424	I think she's right about that. Every Member of Parliament has that right. I would very much like to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u425	Others? Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u426	To be honest, I found Tuesday a charming solution, because then we can do it nicely, as we usually did, in addition to the regular votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u427	The proposal is Tuesday. I see everyone nodding a little yes. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u428	The application period expires on Friday. Tuesday's really late. I really want to vote on this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u429	Well, then I'm going to see Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u430	Once again, I support the colleague. But if the Minister could promise that the deadline would be extended to Tuesday, no one would have a problem with us voting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u431	The Minister will find out if it's technically possible. I think you'll find a creative solution at almost 10:45 p.m., Mr. Wilders. In any case, all motions are subject to a judgment. We're going to vote on two motions after all. I hope the Minister will have an answer if we suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u432	I give the floor to the Minister for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u433	Mr. Chairman. It's possible. The scheme can be extended to Tuesday, but that is the final deadline. It can be technical and legal, so I'm willing to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-04-tweedekamer-7.u434	Good. We shall then vote jointly and severally on Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's motion on Tuesday.
