ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome all the initiators. You're sitting With so much in corona time, that's quite a challenge. I wonder how we're going to do that later with the General Reviews. That's gonna be interesting. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Typically, the initiators provide support in box K, but that is difficult in this corona time. You will undoubtedly be assisted behind the scenes. The first term of office took place on 16 January 2020. It's been a while. Today we are discussing first-term and second-term responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik for her first-term answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a pleasure to present a bill in the House of Representatives, in our house. I would like to thank my staff very much for the cooperation in the process we have gone through together in order to be able to stand here at least in advance. I would also like to thank all our employees who helped us with this, specifically my colleague Ton Langenhuizen, who put a lot of work into it. But I also have to thank Coen van Reeken and Maaike Daams. That's our official and legal support from the department. Fantastic people, I can't say otherwise. There are many outsiders who have asked for our advice and gave us unsolicited advice. Thanks to them too, specifically to Bettie Drexhage, who has helped us enormously. Thank you so much! I told you, making a bill isn't easy. It's often tough, too. But it is about something, namely undermining. It's about the integrity of our governance, how we keep our society safe. That affects all of us and that is why we have picked up the glove to use an additional instrument, an extra weapon against it. But of course it is listening closely and that is why it is quite right that the Members of this Chamber have asked us very precisely. On behalf of the authors, Mrs Van Toorenburg and myself will try to answer you as well and as precisely as possible. I will deal in turn with questions relating to the role of the minister, the accountability of conduct, when an administrative and when a civil ban and the questions that have been asked about increasing the speed of a civil ban. Mrs Van Toorenburg will then address the questions about the effectiveness of an administrative ban, the degree of punishment, the legal protection, the role of the mayors, the relationship with the bill 2:20 and the other questions. As far as possible, we will also respond to the amendments that have already been tabled. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the questions that have been asked about the role of the Minister. The spokesmen of D66, SP, GroenLinks and PVV have asked questions about the proposal to give the minister the power to ban an organisation. There were doubts as to whether the minister as a political minister would at all times have the necessary neutrality to carry such power. Mr Grothuizen pointed, among other things, to the political pressure under which a minister could make such a decision. He pointed out the danger of a politically coloured ban or ruling. Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Helder had similar questions. I would like to answer these questions in conjunction with this. In itself, I understand the reluctance to give a minister this power very well. It must never become a political instrument. But quite frankly, neither is our bill. The Minister cannot just ban an organization at his own discretion. He is bound by the criteria laid down in the law. A ban should only be allowed if it is necessary in the interests of public policy. And then there must also be a culture of lawlessness in the organisation. On these specific criteria we will come back in more detail later in the answer. But imagine that we are indeed dealing with a minister who is under pressure, who does not take it so closely with the law or who would be malicious. Then I would like to point out to the Members of this Chamber that there is full legal protection against the administrative ban, starting with objections. That may be rejected by the Minister, but then the court will proceed. That is to say: appeal to the court and, if necessary, appeal to the Department of Administrative Law. The Minister therefore has a legal obligation to indicate how he has implemented these criteria. Under the General Administrative Law Act, the Minister must properly justify his prohibition decision. I would like to refer to Article 346 and Article 347 of the General Administrative Law Act. Such a thorough statement of reasons will cause the administrative court to suspend or annul the decision. In doing so, the court is expected to attach great importance to the case-law of the Supreme Court on the criterion "in breach of public policy', as set out in Article 2:20 of the Civil Code. That leaves no room under political pressure to extend the public order criterion without foundation. We have, of course, looked very carefully at this. As a result, a number of Members have asked whether it is a marginal, reluctant, test. Here's what I can say. Among others, the spokesmen of D66, GroenLinks and PVV informed about this. Our answer to that is that the board judge will always go for a full test. He's gonna have to run a full test. He must do so from the European Court of Human Rights. That is laid down in Article 6 because it concerns the definition of civil rights and obligations. That article demands a full jurisdiction in such a case. In other words, a full review by an independent court, which must take into account all relevant facts. So it's not a marginal key, it's a full test. A number of Members then asked specific questions about the exception we make for political parties. We've had some doubts about that. It's been quite a topic of conversation, and I think it's right. In the end, we have chosen to exclude political parties from this bill, precisely in order to exclude all risks of political arbitrariness, even with the legal protection that goes with it. Political parties are therefore excluded, as you have read. There were still a few questions from Mr Grothuizen and Mrs Buitenweg about the meaning of the term 'political party'. How do you put it? We have also wrestled with this: do you hang it up by the way the term is formulated in the Tickets Act or do you choose a broader description? We have finally decided not to choose the formal definition as laid down in the Tickets Act. That is why we felt it was too easy for a criminal organisation to disguise itself as a political party and thus get out of an administrative ban. The law could not only be evaded, but it could also invite outlaw motorgangs to enter local politics. Of course, we all think that is a very undesirable development. The term "political party" makes it possible for the minister and the administrative judge to avoid and look through an obvious disguise. This also means that we believe that such evasion will not occur soon. Moreover, a ban on a political party does open the way to the civil courts, on the basis of Article 2:20 of the Civil Code. Of course, I am not going to take that into account here, but I think it is good to mention it. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, I have answered the questions about the role of the Minister and the questions that have been asked about political parties and what is and is not included in the legislative proposal. I've answered them to my tastes and to our tastes. I would now like to go on to the criteria and the accountability. Mr. Chairman. The members of the political groups of D66, SP, ChristenUnion, CDA and GroenLinks had questions about the imputation of the members' behaviour to the legal entity to be prohibited. If I may sum it up in this way, the questions put by Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Nispen came down to the following: do we not set the bar of accountability with our law higher than the judge already does? And has not the practice of recent judicial bans of the OMGs already shown that accountability is no longer a problem? Let me get into that bar first. Let me say first of all that our legislative proposal does not set the bar of accountability higher than is currently used in the case law. Until not long ago, that bar might have been too high. That is still the state of the case law at the highest level. For example, in the Hells Angels case, the Supreme Court held that conduct by members of a legal person can be attributed to that legal person only if the board is in charge or has deliberately given it an opportunity to do so, or on the basis of particular facts and circumstances. The prohibitions of the OMGs which have so far been decided by the civil courts have not yet been brought before the Supreme Court. We therefore believe that a legal anchoring of when the behaviour can be attributed to the organisations is appropriate. We believe that such fundamental choices should be left to the legislator. It should provide the rules on which judges can base themselves. So far the case law has not yet been crystallised, but that does not mean that it is not valuable. On the contrary. In drafting our legislative proposal, we have been guided by case law in order to formulate the criteria properly. It is precisely because we know that these have proved manageable in legal practice. To this end, the legislative proposal stipulates that a conduct is attributed to the OMG if the conduct has taken place in the organised context of the organisation and the organisation tolerates the conduct or otherwise does not act effectively against it. In other words, if a member of an OMG extorts or threatens someone and uses his membership as a means of coercion, that conduct takes place in the organised context. However, if that same Member is guilty of domestic violence, I think Mrs Buitenweg asked that "then in principle there will be no conduct in the context of an OMG." This wasn't meant to be an entrapment. One of your members asked, but maybe I didn't remember it properly. It was at least about the question: when are you punishable in the context of an OMG and when are you punishable as an individual member? That's what I've been trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u4	I do remember that. Why should this not be defined in this way in the case of domestic violence when it becomes patience?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u5	Let me put it this way. Suppose it is said in the context of membership: you will commit domestic violence and will not be dealt with, then you could see it in that context. But if someone acts like this without the OMG knowing about it, it doesn't fall within the behavior of an OMG.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u6	But now there's another criterion. Just now we said it doesn't have to be an instruction given by the OMG. The point is that it is being patient and that no effective action is being taken. My question is then: if we know that there are people in such an OMG who systematically abuse their wives at home and if that is patient and does not take action, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u7	If one knowingly knows that there are such behaviors and does not act against them or is even encouraged, then you have a different situation. But if one doesn't know about domestic violence, which is often the case, and it doesn't happen on the orders of, or it's not encouraged, then my opinion would be that it's not an OMG to charge. The criterion that the organisation tolerates the conduct, or does not act effectively against it in any other way, is intended to prevent it from being explained that the organisation can too easily distance itself from the behaviour of its members. The actual tolerance of behaviour makes the organisation co-responsible. This is also the case if it has not explicitly ordered it to do so. So this doesn't give you a pass. You shouldn't tolerate it, but if you didn't know about it at all, then it's a different situation. Insufficient decisive or effective action against such behaviour can also lead to an allocation. Mr. Chairman. There were also several questions from different groups about the scope of the administrative ban. If I may, I will summarize which organizations are covered and which are not. As may be clear, we want to confine ourselves to OMGs and possibly similar organisations that are characterized by the culture of lawlessness that we have mentioned. We currently do not know any other organisations that meet these requirements in addition to OMGs. However, let me be clear: motorcycling itself is not a criterion. An organization that deals with fighting dogs, football or any activity can also have or start to have a culture of lawlessness. That may be prohibited, provided that this is necessary in the context of the constitutional concept of public policy. The formulation of the culture of lawlessness refers to an organisation whose many members are systematically involved in behaviour which, due to their seriousness, number or duration, constitutes a substantial impairment of the security or freedom of third parties. This wording is directly derived from the case law, in which, as mentioned above, OMGs were prohibited by courts. In concrete terms, serious criminal behaviour is to be considered, as is evident from the committing of serious crimes, often accompanied by violence, threats, intimidation or extortion. In connection with the ban on the Bandidos, the court referred to a culture of lawlessness. That was linked to, and I quote very precisely: "...to commit serious crimes, often in the areas of violence, threats, intimidation and extortion. The Bandidos accept this kind of behavior and the arrangement and rules within their own organization also show this acceptance." End of quote. When Satudarah was banned, this was, and I quote again: 'a culture in which the commission of criminal offences is encouraged' and 'a culture in which the commission of criminal offences is regarded as respectable conduct'. These are just a few examples, but in our opinion this is specific enough to prevent other organisations from falling under an administrative ban. The spokesmen of the PVV and Christian Union groups recalled that, according to our Constitution, freedom of association can only be restricted by law in the interests of public order. They wondered whether the criteria set out in the legislative proposal were not too open in this respect. As the Section also pointed out, the Constitution does not preclude an administrative ban, provided that the criteria are sufficiently precise and specific. The wordings chosen in this legislative proposal, "public order" and "culture of lawlessness" may seem rather open, but are, as has already been said, based on firm case law. This case law offers fairly precise and concrete tools to apply in practice. Among other things, Mr Bruins asked us to comment on the suggestion made by the section of the Council of State that the legal criteria should perhaps be further specified. We've been looking at that a lot and for a long time, really. We did not, in the end, choose to do so, precisely because of the statements, to which I referred earlier, that were made in the cases of Bandidos and Satudarah. On the one hand, there may be a risk of over-interpreting. On the other hand, you may have the risk of interpreting it too narrowly. We said: let us now stick to the judgments that are already before the court. I believe that this is the best way to ensure that OMGs are successfully dealt with administratively. The Great Houses amendment does call for clarification. It was a little late in the day, so let us respond in writing and take a good look at it again. But I'm sure I'd like to give you this. And it was of course Mr Bruins who asked a question about this; excuse for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u8	Of course, I would like to give the proposers that time, because I was indeed very late with it when I peed through the pieces again this morning. Sorry about that. I'm curious to hear the written response. Can you comment on the following question in particular? In my opinion, the Advisory Section of the Council of State says that this is a fundamental right that the formal legislator may restrict that we are, but that you should not give too much space to the minister, because then he will do something that does not allow constitutional formulation. Only the legislator can do this. You come up with a relatively open wording. You admit that, too. You refer to the case law. My thought then is: put the case law in the law. That is when you meet the advice of the Council of State not to leave too much open. As you yourself say, the case law has now crystallised the culture of lawlessness, namely the systematic commission of criminal offences. Plus: in earlier case law, it was, in my opinion, the Hells Angels case, the public order criteria have already been established. Those are my factors b and c, I think. I've been thinking, if that's the line in the case law, why don't you just write it down in the law? In doing so, you immediately comply with the opinion of the Advisory Section. That was my thought. I'm open to where it goes wrong. I would like to receive a written response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u9	We will, but at the same time I can reverse it. If the case law is so clear and we are constitutionally not changing the concept of public order, there is therefore no need to clarify that. We can have long debates on this, but I think your question is very clear. That's why I said, let's take a good look at this, again. We will ensure that you receive a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u10	I'm gonna read it, of course. We can indeed say that the case law has already crystallized that, but the point is: does the Constitution allow you to have it completed by the Minister? I believe that this is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u11	You always have the hallway to the board judge, so I don't have that fear. We have had this discussion quite clearly on several occasions, but we have come to this argument with this brief explanation. But again, I'll come back to you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr Van Nispen also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u13	Maybe it should have been on the last block. I'm sorry about that. We are all talking about the fact that the problem of the criminal motorcycle gangs is incredibly persistent. This problem is difficult to address. But the question you have to ask if you are making a change of principle, though, is a change of principle if you do not allow a ban to be imposed by the court, as is the case with Article 20 of Book 2 of the BW, but by the Minister is whether you think that the current approach is sufficient and that it is going well. Or do the proposers think that there can be a little better here and there? Should more investigations be carried out, for example, on individuals in the criminal organisations? Can Article 20 of Book 2 BW be better used? The Minister has a proposal. Why isn't that waiting? Do the petitioners feel that enough crime money is being taken away? Is there sufficient action to combat recidivism? I think you should answer those questions before taking a fundamental step. What is the answer of the proposers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u14	I can answer that, but I am not going to do that, because Mrs Van Toorenburg has prepared an answer specifically aimed at you, both on what else needs to be done and on what is the benefit of a ban on administration over a civil ban. So she'll come back to it. If we have not answered your question properly enough, I would like to ask you to come back. I know what she's gonna answer, but we're gonna do it in order. Yeah? Fine. Thank you. Let's see. Yeah, I would have stayed here. I shall return to the questions put by Mr Van Dam and Mrs Buitenweg. Yes, a criminal dog club or a criminal computer club, which, for example, hosts child pornography, can be prohibited if necessary in the interests of public order, provided that there is a culture of lawlessness. Mrs Buitenweg specifically mentioned the football club which deliberately gives way to criminal offences, where there is a culture of lawlessness in this area and where illegal practices have taken place in an organised context. So the answer is yes. These are, of course, not light conditions that would easily be met, so it must really be about systematically committing serious offences in connection with an organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u15	I remember that the example I gave was racism. It was about a football club where racism takes place systematically, including by supporters, and where no action is taken against it. My question was whether this could be regarded as an organisation within the meaning of this law. So you're saying yes to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u16	I would like to take this question back for a moment, because it depends on what you mean by systematic behavior. I would like to answer this very precisely, so I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u17	It often hangs on to that, on understanding what kind of behavior it is. Violence and intimidation are mentioned. That could also cover this. I would therefore like to hear a very specific answer to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u18	This raises the question of racism. Do I expect a restraining order to be handed down on account of choirs? No. There is also my hesitation about what you mean by racism and how far you go. Speaking choir is not what I'm expecting. That's not how we wrote it down. Are there other forms of racism that could be covered? I would like to think about that for a moment, and I would like to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u19	I would like to dwell on the concept of public order. When you're talking about public order in criminal terms, that's really raging on the street, riots, the ME and more of that stuff. While when you look at public order in the BW context, there is much more a piece of law and order, law enforcement. This is a law that does not come into criminal law or the BW, so I think it is important that we define that concept of public order as well. It seems obvious to me that this means the concept of public order in the BW, because otherwise we will have a very friendly, raked, quiet computer club that does the most terrible things without causing any fuss on the street, and I think you want to ban it too. Could you tell me again whether I agree with that concept of 'public order'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u20	I don't think I fully understand the question. The public order concept is just like we say, so I don't understand exactly what you're afraid of. One more time, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u21	If we take public order rather scary, limited, to real hassle on the streets, so to speak, then the functioning of this law is also very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u22	Okay. I get the question now. Excuse me. It's really about behavior. It's also about undermining and intimidation. So it's not just about hooligan behavior. Excuse me. I just didn't quite understand your question. That's up to me, not you. In doing so, I have dealt with the questions about the criteria and I go on to the question of when to opt for an administrative ban and when to opt for a civil ban. Some Members of your Chamber have asked questions about this, including Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Grothuizen and Mrs Buitenweg. We cannot, of course, enter into the public prosecutor's deliberations, but if there is an administrative prohibition instrument for the OMGs and similar organisations in the near future, an instrument which, in our view, offers a faster way than a civil procedure to determine whether or not that is actually the case, I can imagine that the public prosecutor would opt for an administrative ban. In this context, however, Mr Groothuizen has asked for coordination between criminal proceedings and administrative law. Mr Groothuizen said that it would be rather "clumsy" to have a file with parties on an administrative route while the D.A. is conducting criminal investigations. The D.A. asked for something to be included in the bill. It is up to the Public Prosecutor and the Minister to choose one or the other procedure and to coordinate it by mutual agreement. After all, they talk to each other on a regular basis. Mr Groothuizen has also tabled an amendment to this effect, together with Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen, in respect of part No. 19. It proposes that the Minister should not impose an administrative ban until he has first received advice from the College of Attorneys General. We understand that thought. This will introduce an extra care requirement and prevent the administrative and criminal proceedings from being crossed. And in itself, I agree with the fact that the amendment puts the college in a position in the administrative ban. In this way there is also an additional guarantee and, in our view, the problem of coordination is tackled. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go on with your well-being to the questions that have been asked about increasing the speed of a civil ban. Among other things, Mr Kerstens wondered, following the opinion of the Council of State, whether the proposed administrative route would really be faster than the civil court route. Mr Van Nispen also asked for this. In this context, the Council of State called for consideration to be given to ways of speeding up the process of civil law. This is in response to the comments made on the preliminary draft budget. The spokespersons of D66, GroenLinks, the SP and the PVV also pointed out these reactions and suggestions to tie the civil proceedings to time limits or to amend the Criminal Code in such a way that the continuation of the association is already punishable immediately after the court ruling. Sorry to read it again staccato, but that makes it quite precise what has been said. To start with this last suggestion: we have a clearly defined type of organisation in mind with this legislative proposal, organisations which pose such a threat that immediate intervention is desirable. It is in that spirit that we have considered it acceptable to make an exception to the main rule laid down in the Code of Criminal Law. That basic rule means that criminal continuation can only be achieved once the civil ban has become irrevocable. We cannot assess whether such an exception would generally be acceptable, in all cases where a legal person is prohibited under civil law. So that makes it very broad. This bill only concerns a particular type of organisation. It is not for nothing that we have limited our proposals, precisely in order to avoid this generality. In the meantime, on the basis of this question and suggestion, the Minister has sent a letter to the Chamber. I would ask the Minister to make that very specific, as an advisor to the Chamber, if the Chamber has any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u23	I also have a question for the proposers, because it is actually an important argument from the proposers for this law. As long as a ban is not irrevocable, no action can be taken against a motorcycle gang, because then someone can appeal and, well, then it all takes a very long time. I understand. That is why we raised the question: can we not see if we can speed up all this? Many proposals have been made for this, and perhaps we will all come back to that. This is also reflected in the Minister's proposal, which we will deal with again later; the other one. But I have looked at the Progress Report Outlaw Motorcycle Gangs 2019. We got it two days ago. That is precisely the question: is it true that local authorities could not act on the basis of a civil ban if it is not yet irrevocable? So it seems that we can do that. The proposers knew this, of course, because they have proposed this law, so they have investigated it. However, it is quite clear that as long as a decision prohibiting an organisation is not yet irrevocable, the organisation is not yet punishable, but it can be maintained on the basis of public policy, the Police Act, the Municipal Act or the APV. So why not choose to encourage that route, so to maintain it in the event of a ban, although not yet irrevocable, but with enforcement action? Why, then, are we taking advantage of the relatively heavy means proposed by the proposers here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u24	I spoke with Mr Miltenburg of the police last week. He is one of the performers of the approach of outlaw motorcycle gangs and also closely involved in this progress report. I also asked him this question: do you still need our ban? I'm gonna bring it home now. He said it's true, because it's too random right now, APVs can't cover everything and there's fluidity in motor passages. You still need an administrative approach. This progress report also strongly calls for our legislative proposal to be supported. I also asked him if I could mention his name. It's okay. I've asked him very strongly if he needs it. He said, "Yes, I need it. Civil offers too little solace." I just mentioned the reason; otherwise I'm going to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u25	I understand that, and I appreciate the answer, too. But I read the following on page 17. "There are a number of examples of effective enforcement actions based on the civil bans." They weren't irrevocable yet. "Club locations are closed. In addition, we are increasingly seeing effective action against the wearing of outer features in public space. Several times Colors of a forbidden club have been seized by people who showed themselves in public space with these outer characteristics of that forbidden club." But it was not yet irrevocably prohibited, I say. The use of these enforcement instruments is still relatively unknown. Actually, it says here there's another world to win. Maybe it's going too far for you to be sure, you won't confirm that to say that this actually pulls the ground from under your bill. But if there's still a world to be won here, I don't understand why this isn't much more encouraged and communicated and much earlier: see what can be done here! Even if a club is not irrevocably banned, there can be a lot. So that's actually not happening at all. Then I do not understand why there is not much more to be done first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u26	First of all, you can't handle everything. There are a number of things that can be done. That is very nice and they should continue to do so, but not everything can. Two. There's still that length in it. There is also the fact that motor clubs simply change chapters again, so not all chapters are banned. Once again, I have asked all the parties involved in this progress report if they still need us. They've come to us so I haven't even approached them myself yet with the call "you have to defend this bill with fire, because we need it." I know your hesitations. I respect that. Nor are you a strong supporter of administrative bans. We know that too, and we have to respect that. But it's not like we're doing this because it's my hobby. It is also not the case that we do not like a criminal or civil route more. But we're doing it because we still see that it's incredibly necessary. Moreover, continuing is not now a criminal offence. You say 'they take on a number of behaviors', but it is not true that they are also criminal offences. That is an additional argument, on top of what I have already mentioned. I would therefore ask you to consider this in the coming days. I understand how you'd prefer to see it as a racial lawyer. But understand also that in practice such an administrative ban is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr Van Nispen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u28	That is indeed the purpose of this debate. I'm listening well and I'm considering this very carefully. Nor do I say it for nothing: it is a persistent problem, which we would prefer to deal with vigorously, with all possible means. But I do have these hesitations; Mrs Kuik rightly says so. But I do believe that all the problems she mentions with the enforcement instruments that I mentioned as an example, so that these organisations are fluid and so on, are not all solved in one go with the proposal that is being discussed here today. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u29	Sure, we don't say that either. In an ideal world, you would rely on criminal law and civil law. We apply administrative law sometimes. What we are doing is not unique in terms of administrative measures. We do it because the path that is now being chosen is too long and sometimes too random. I just mentioned fluidity. The fact is that what is not now punishable is continuing. There's no remand, and there's no far-reaching search. We want to create all this now with this administrative ban. I would like to invite you to talk to the people who have approached us specifically. Let us not only convince you, hopefully, but also by them. It was also asked whether it would be appropriate and acceptable to simplify the civil prohibition procedure and to link it to tighter deadlines. This seems to us to be a question for the Minister. We have not considered it, I say in addition to what we have just exchanged. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 16, let's leave it to the Minister. I have already mentioned the reasons why we are in favour of an administrative ban in addition to a civil ban: time savings, period of filing, but also afterwards. We also expect a minister who gets a thorough dossier on OMG or a similar organisation to give it a slightly easier priority than at present in practice. Nor will he be bound by certain procedural steps and will in principle be able to act more quickly. Finally, I would like to say that there is no lack of legal protection in the case of an administrative ban, because there is also an open objection and appeal to a decision in two bodies. As mentioned above, the court is obliged to give full consideration to the decision. Mr Grothuizen wondered whether there was a risk that there would be two completely different lines of case law, one civil law and one administrative law. We're not afraid of that. In our opinion, the judges in the Netherlands are closely monitoring each other's judgments. Wherever that seems appropriate, they are also looking at it. Because the consequences of an administrative ban do not seem irreversible to us, we are also not afraid that it will encourage the suspension of justice or that provisional provisions will rain. Mr Groothuizen also asked about this. The bill distinguishes between the prohibition on the one hand and the dissolution and settlement on the other. Unification and settlement are indeed irreversible, but it is not the ban itself. That is why the ban has immediate effect, but the organisation will not be dissolved and the assets will not be settled until the ban has become irrevocable. Any criminal prosecution before the prohibition becomes irrevocable can be stopped if the administrative judge destroys the ban. We have dealt with this earlier in the light of the comments made by the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. I have talked about the speed of the administrative ban versus the civil ban. There may be some overlap with Mrs Van Toorenburg's contribution, but I would like to hand over the stick to her so that she can respond to the remaining points, as I said in my introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u30	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do you think the chair could go down a little bit? Yeah, great. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a personal note before I come to the answer of the constructive critical questions of the Kamen. 'Cause my husband's watching today, a biker. Years ago, I gave him a bike for his birthday, because he enjoys motorcycling so much. Wonderful touring the country in a group. And yes, he's also a member of several motorcycle clubs. He pressed me again last night to make it very clear today that we are not at all against bikers, and certainly not against all those fans who tour in a club. But I do notice that we have some missionary work to do on this point, because there are a lot of very decent people who need to hear from us today that this proposal is not about them. As my colleague has already said, this proposal concerns the clubs that need to be dealt with in the interests of public order. It's about clubs in which a culture of lawlessness rules and cookies that they're outside the law. It's not about those enthusiastic bikers who are happy to be able to drive a bit after the worst hell of Corona. We don't get in the way of them. We even regret that their hobby is put in such a bad light by the activities of those criminal motorcycle gangs, but unfortunately it is not in our power to prevent that. And let's be it: a few times they can do something about that themselves, for example by distinguishing themselves a bit from all those linked clubs, by their clothing, their hairstyle and sometimes even the way they manifest themselves in public space. That can be quite impressive, and any motorcyclist knows that. But I thought it was important to really emphasize that, because I've heard many times that people think we're a bit against bikers. That's not us. It's fantastic when people enjoy it, but we want to separate the chaff from the chaff in a very effective way today. And then I come straight to the point that Mrs Kuik said I could do that, namely the effectiveness of the chosen route in relation to the civil ban. Several Members have asked questions about this. I think it is very important to make it clear that, like the current civil law ban, the administrative ban must never stand alone. Actually, you could compare it with an extra tool in the government's instrument box to eventually effectively stop these criminal gangs. That is what we often say: we need many instruments in an instrument box to ensure that precisely the fluidity and the different forms of appearance can be dealt with in a different way each time. It will therefore always have to be part of the integrated approach of the OMGs, which has been used for a long time and with different instruments, such as administrative, then criminal, then tax. Don't mix up with that. In this context, I also refer to Mr Van Nispen's report on the outlaw motorcycle gangs from 2019, on which we were able to receive a letter on 16 June. This clearly shows that this problem is very complex. That is why the approach must be multifaceted, and this certainly includes the criminal law approach of individual members who have dealt with, for example, threats, extortion, drug trafficking and, not to mention, trafficking in women. These matters are and will continue to be punishable, and these people will simply have to be prosecuted as they are today and should continue to be prosecuted, as has rightly been pointed out by several Members in the Chamber. It's always en-and. The same applies to the various instruments available to the municipalities. We were just talking about granting authorisation or powers of mayors from the point of view of public policy. These powers will continue to exist; they will continue to be necessary and must be able to be used. It is a multifaceted monster that will have to be fought with different swords. The ban on organisation, which we are discussing today, is only one of the many possibilities. The same is true at the moment of the civil ban. That's a choice, too. You can opt for article 140, combined with article 51 criminal law actually directing. So you have a criminal opportunity and you have a civil possibility. We believe that it is wise to add an administrative possibility to that. Once again, we agree with the Chamber that it remains very important to be able to deal with the individual Members who are engaged in serious offences. They can't get away with it, and luckily they don't. I also refer to the progress report, because in recent years 134 custodial sentences have been imposed, together for more than 50 years in prison. Well, where would we prefer them? So it does work. So you can also take criminal action, in addition to many community service and fines. So we see this personal approach again alongside the ban on organisation. It is precisely through this close cooperation that it is often so difficult to go through that criminal route. We all know that. There's a very, very silent culture. It is very hard to maintain and, as a result, persecution is often very difficult. I still have to think about that case years ago, where there was a body in the middle of a group of such a criminal gang. Everyone put their hands in the air, nobody knew who had done it and eventually people couldn't be tried. That's part of that culture. And that is exactly what we are trying to do with this instrument. We must try to break the pattern with all kinds of instruments. It is precisely this progress report that shows how stubborn that monster is. One can always try to regroup. Even then, it will have to be able to get through very quickly. It is only by permanently laying the fire on these clubs that their behaviour can be reduced. And that is precisely the reason behind the choice of an integrated approach, which will include the organisation ban. It is true that the civil road has proved to be much more successful than in the past. Mr Groothuizen has already pointed out this. But, as has already been said, it is a temporary success. The Supreme Court has not yet spoken of this. Moreover, you should not leave it entirely to the courts to establish criteria, that is our reasoning. It is possible, of course, because case law always has to develop a little bit, and then we will actually come to the discussion about the amendment, but a little more direction and clarification is in line with our codification. It should also be noted that the preliminary success of the civil law road is not yet entirely related to the speed of the procedure. As in the case of the civil ban, the administrative ban will also allow for the prohibition of sections and subdivisions of the so-called "mother clubs." In fact, that is no different from the civil law ban, but then too, you will always have to look at it. Is it possible in this particular case? Is it really a part of the bigger picture, or isn't it? It's always customized. I'm sure one day you can. This is no different from the civil law ban than the administrative ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u32	That is exactly what I have a question about. In April, the Supreme Court delivered a judgment in the Bandidos case. It's a lot of paper, but when I sum it up, they say in it: the chapters don't go along with the ban on Bandidos Holland, because eventually they have their own board, members, marks, bank accounts and so on. Mrs Kuik has just said: we expect the administrative judge to look at civil case law. My conclusion is then: with this in hand, the chance that you will at once issue a ban under which all chapters fall, is not so great. So you will also have to deal with Bandidos Holland and Bandidos Sittard separately. Is that also your conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u33	That might be possible, but that also depends on how a club is organized. Some are much more hierarchical and compact. Some of them are very much fused with local clubs. As with the civil law ban, this will always depend on the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u34	Clear. So I understand that you say that it could sometimes work with a decision at once, but it may also be that we also have cases in which we have to work with different decisions or with a separate basis for those decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u35	It could be. So it may also be that the Minister thinks he can ban the whole house at once, but that then the judge says: no, this one and these chambers are not part of it. It could be. But anyway, it always goes faster. But that's what we've been talking about. Then we'll get to the judges. Then I come to a point about which a comment was made from the VVD and the PVV. They have the idea that one can continue to proceed to the Supreme Court. But that is not the case with the administrative ban. After the objection phase there is an appeal to the court, and eventually one comes to the administrative judge of the Council of State. After that, it doesn't go on until the Supreme Court. It is also important, I think, that the appeal does not automatically have a suspensive effect, so there can be no question of 'just going on with your criminal business'. You said that just as domestic and that appealed to me. Individually-ground facts remain normally persecutable anyway. The continuation of a prohibited organisation can be continued after the administrative ban from the date of the ban. In fact, then, we are getting a little closer to the consequences of the administrative ban. Mrs Buitenweg would like to know more about the consequences and the times at which they occur. This will always vary according to the criminal or civil nature of the consequences. It is very important that the criminal consequences of the administrative ban that we are proposing should start immediately. That's different from a civil court ban. In other words, the continuation of the organisation's activities is punishable from the date of entry into force of the prohibition decision. This concerns the entire activity of the club, not just the type of work on which the ban has been issued. It is therefore a question of not recruiting members, of not being able to engage in club activities, of not having meetings and of not being able to make decisions. After all, these are the work of the club which is prohibited by the Minister. The club can always object and appeal to this later. Civic liquidation of the club's assets will only take place after the prohibition decision has become final. In the meantime, of course, the goods of that organization can be put under control. This will prevent them from being locked away before the liquidation. The motto here is: secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned the toolbox a while ago: you actually want to add an additional instrument to that. Of course it always sounds good when you talk about "an integral approach," but you have to ask yourself what that means. If I want to put a nail in something and my hammer is broken, then it doesn't make much sense to throw a saw and a screwdriver in my toolbox. You can also get a better hammer that just does it. In my view, that is what the Minister has done with his proposal to improve Article 20 of book 2 BW. That is what is actually happening. You know me, I do not compliment this Minister very often, but I think that is a more intelligent way and that proposal is partly achieved in what Mrs Van Toorenburg just mentioned as a current disadvantage, namely that there would be a suspensive effect, that you should wait until something is completely irrevocable. For the new paragraph 6 of Article 20 of Book 2 of the BW states: in the case of the current prohibition by a judge, and therefore not by the Minister, the declaration of prohibition and the orders given to it are immediately entered into. Executable in stock, no suspensive effect. In fact, this proposal, that ban, is doing exactly what the proposers are actually trying to do with this proposal to ban associations by a minister. Then why not wait and see that proposal and treat it properly? Then we can leave any worries there. That would be much more careful, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u37	No, because the Minister also said a number of other things in his letter of 6 April. He stated that he did not want to delete the term "unremitting" from Article 140 Sr. He motivates that the Council of State's argument that a person should not be punishable if a ban is not yet irrevocable. That is understandable, given the broad functioning of Article 140, about participation in a criminal organisation. Then perhaps it would be a little unfocused to get rid of Article 2 of the term "unremitting." But we do attach great importance to this immediate effect, because our proposal concerns OMGs who believe themselves to be untouchable. That is the essence of their existence: "You will not come to us" with all kinds of crimes and intimidations. It is precisely then that it is important to be consistent. In his proposal, 2:20, the Minister chooses an intermediate route, as you rightly point out, through Article 184a. For then the judge can take very targeted measures of order, so that the perpetrators cannot simply continue their conduct. That is where it fits very well, because in 2:20, the new proposal is about radical organisations that are banned because they are trying to overthrow our democracy. Well, then you should be more specific about what behaviors you wouldn't want to see. This is different from what we have in our proposal, which deals with the organisation's effectiveness. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is important that you ban the organisation and that people, if they continue to work, are immediately punishable. That is a different reasoning from that chosen by the Minister in his Article 2:20, in which he puts the purpose into it and in which he then gives the court the opportunity to immediately declare a number of conducts which he will therefore have to specify prohibited, for in 2:20 it is not about efficacy, but about purpose. That's where it fits. What I would like to say is almost philosophical. We believe it is important that the OMGs can be dealt with and banned, and that any conduct afterwards is punishable, because they want to show themselves: you will not come to us. They don't care about the world. That's the core of an OMG. That is why I think that we have discussed it with each other and that it is justified to say that any behaviour is then punishable. For you don't want a group of people who think: we don't care about the world; we are above the law. It's not for nothing OMG's, outlaw motor gangs. That is really different from Article 2:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u38	I understand that it is really something else and I did not refer to Article 140 of the Code of Criminal Law, because I can still follow that reasoning, even if I had raised that question myself. But even if it is something else, in the Minister's proposal, that new paragraph 6 of Article 20 of Book 2 of the Civil Code is concerned with the prohibition of the legal person of that association. This is simply feasible in case of stock; the imposition of a remedy does not suspend the operation. So we can look for the differences, I understand that, but the point is that the Minister is to a large extent addressing the reason why you are putting forward this proposal, namely that such an association would be untouchable until it was irrevocable. And that is why I say: look at the Minister's proposal. There may be a good deal to note and to improve on, but see if the way through the judge is not more sensible, see if perhaps, in the words that Mrs Kuik almost put in my mouth, that is the cleaner and more classic way, rather than a ban by a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u39	No, because it is precisely because we are concerned that, following the ban imposed by the Minister, any behaviour by the various Members is punishable. And that's not in construction 2:20. A fundamental difference. I think we should face that. We are concerned that these organisations show that they are above the law and that they must be dealt with in a criminal manner. And that's the only way we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u41	Of course there are other possibilities. We have article 51, about actually directing the organization. There are many other ways in which, if you have forbidden an organization, you can also deal with the individuals. It may then have other consequences as well. Remember that membership of an organisation may lead an employer to stop wanting to do so, many discussions have taken place or a statement of behaviour is no longer issued, which means that you are no longer able to practice certain professions. Much more will always be found out, but that is in both the criminal part and the civil part as well as in the administrative part. Then I'll get to the punishment. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius had a question about this: how did we get to that sentence, what is our justification? The SP also asked itself this question, especially since we had reason to believe that this penalty might not be sufficiently generous, even though it has not yet been used. How can we say in advance that it is not enough? Well, that has to do with the fact that we have compared it with another sentence, namely Article 184a. The current maximum sentence is a prison sentence of not more than one year or a fine in the third category. We do not think that this is appropriate for the continuation of the activities of a banned, socially disruptive organisation, which is structurally using intimidation and violence. That is the basis of the administrative ban. That is why we want to increase the penalty ceiling to two years. We have looked at Article 184a of the Code of Criminal Law. That provision lays down a maximum of one year, one year, to the failure to follow up on a behavioral instruction given by a public prosecutor in the event of suspicion of a criminal offence in connection with which there is a fear of the defendant's serious incriminating behaviour towards other persons. Article 140 (2) of the Criminal Code is really about ignoring the prohibition of a serious, socially disruptive activity. That greater threat requires a higher threat of punishment. It's different as far as we're concerned, not in proportion. Then there is another interesting issue on which your Chamber has asked a lot of questions: legal protection. I said something very briefly about it. When a prohibited association appealed against an association ban issued by the court, the question arose in the case-law as to how that would actually work. The court held that the fact that a legal person is prohibited does not prevent him from appealing against that prohibition. But we think it is so important that we want to remove any doubt, and that is why we propose that it be incorporated into the law in so many words. See therefore Article 9 in the legislative proposal. There can simply be no doubt about it. After all, we are restricting a fundamental right, and that is quite a lot. In that case, adequate legal protection is absolutely necessary. Let us be honest: administrative law also allows any other interested party to object and appeal. Our proposal does not change that, either. Then I come to the role of the mayors. The spokesmen of various political groups, such as VVD and ChristenUnion, informed about the role that mayors can play in the national approach OMGs. I had written a lot about it, but it's good to sum it up when we look at the progress report. 'Cause there's actually a lot about it. For example, you can read that the mayors of municipalities in which these OMGs are active are a very important ally in the approach of these OMGs. Not only because they can take measures themselves, but also because their knowledge and insights can be of great importance for measures that state services can take. Municipalities and mayors already participate intensively in various partnerships that exist for the integrated approach to undermining in general and more specifically the OMGs. Through the national and regional partnerships, much information and experience is exchanged between the participating authorities and municipalities and the actions are coordinated among themselves. In addition, mayors can, of course, always turn directly to the minister or to the prosecutor if they wish to share certain observations or consider that action should be taken. The Minister may be able to go into this further, because the progress report gives a very good picture of this cooperation. We have not taken over the suggestion that mayors should also be authorized to ban an OMG, which the spokesperson of 50PLUS did. We'd rather not follow that line. Even if there were more or less local OMGs, a ban would be a very serious measure, which could also have a national effect. That is why we have proposed that powers should be delegated only at national level, to the Minister. In addition, it serves uniformity. We're gonna take a look at the other proposal. We've already said a few things about it. What proposal would you have to deal with first? Perhaps it would be better if the Minister also addressed the question of how he felt that his proposal relates to the proposal before us. I think it is important what I have just said: it is not necessary to deal with the government's proposal first, because the administrative ban always retains its added value, even if the government's proposal is accepted. The added value of this proposal lies with the OMG's criteria for awarding individual members' behaviour to the organisation and at greater speed. It is up to the government to indicate that not only a rapid ban but also its scope is really another. The Minister has clearly addressed this issue, and I think I explained it sufficiently in the interruption with Mr Van Nispen. Mr Van Nispen also asked whether the problem now lies with those clubs or only with individual members. I really think it is important to stress once again today that the problem really is with both. It's the members who do everything under the club's cover. That is why this integrated approach is so important. We have said before that it cannot be enough. That's just because clubs function as a cover and as a shield for members, simplifying the commission of criminal offences. The bar is lowered. Often you even have to show that you're willing to commit a crime, before you join such a club, which means you're forced to lower the bar. Many activities of club members, such as extortion, are very effective, precisely because they are committed in a club context. The strict internal rules, the duty of silence, naturally make the prosecution even more difficult. Therefore, tackling both the clubs and the members is of great importance. In January, we had the debate in which a number of questions were rightly asked, such as: is there sufficient capacity and what is happening to those individual Members? I've been giving it up for a while. When you see all the punishments that have been imposed, last year alone, 50 years in prison. That is therefore a proper approach by several Members. Much has happened to deal with the people. I come to the remaining questions. At the same time, I realize that I may be able to answer a question from Mr Van Dam right away, because if I go to the folder with individual questions, Mr Van Dam will come up with the relevant question: what about the public order concept? What are we talking about? This is the subject of the explanatory memorandum. It is in line with the public order concept of civil law and not with the Municipal Law. It is therefore not a question of the concept of public order contained in Article 172 of the Municipal Law. This is about the orderly conduct of our society. However, it concerns the public order concept as defined by the Supreme Court in the framework of the association Martijn. It is necessary, in the context of public policy, to prohibit an association or a grouping, where there are conducts which actually constitute a serious violation of the fundamental principles of the Dutch legal system and which may disrupt society. That is what the Supreme Court said, and we agree with that. That was explained in our explanatory statement. That was an important question that was still there. A question from the Christian Union was about whether it is not complicated that we did not mention the public legal person. Why didn't we? To this we would like to say that these public legal entities are constituted by a formal law and can only be abolished on the basis of a formal law. They are therefore excluded from the nature of matters. There is therefore no need for a separate provision. An exception for legal persons governed by public law included in the Civil Code does not specifically refer to the possibility of dissolution, but refers to the whole of the provisions of Article 1, Book 2 of the Civil Code, with the exception of that one article. Finally, the CDA spokesperson raised the issue of the mixing of criminal law with administrative law. Actually, we see that a lot. In the context of undermining, we see more often that administrative law is being used to take certain anti-criminal measures. But we also see that administrative law, if used in this way, must comply with the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights, as determined by the European Court of Justice. As they are becoming more and more like criminal interventions, the safeguards are becoming more and more severe. That's what you can see in Mrs. Kuik's remarks: marginal review, isn't it? Because it is actually a similar criminal intervention, there is also a demand for full scrutiny, because it looks like criminal law. I think it's important to report that here. The other is what Mr Van Dam said. The Minister may be able to say something about that. But it is right that we sometimes have the discussion: do we not take administrative law too quickly and do we not take criminal law too quickly? We can see that this discussion has calmed down a little over the last two years. Earlier there was a lot of criticism of it through administrative law or too much through criminal law, but nowadays you see that it can all exist seamlessly side by side and that the different gremia can relate to that too. Civil intervention also has a criminal side and administrative intervention has a criminal side, but the same guarantees must be met. Then I come to the amendments. We have seen an amendment on an opinion from the College of PGs. An amendment on whether it is wise not only to let the Minister decide on something, but also to get an opinion from the College of PGs. There you see again a bit of that mixture of criminal law and administrative law, at a point where it might actually be very desirable. We can live very well with that. Then we have the amendment to item No. 17 van Groothuizen, Buitenweg and Van Nispen to evaluate the law after five years. We don't really object to that. It is very good to see if something is actually working and if we are not punching a hammer in the wall with a snippet, as Mr Van Nispen pointed out. We always have to see if the law does what the law has to do. Then we have the amendment to item No. 18 by Mr Groothuizen and others to include a horizon clause in the sense that the law will expire after seven years, unless otherwise provided for by a general measure of governance. Let's be honest, we don't need it right away, but we can live with it if the Chamber sees added value in it. If after five years something else turns out, you should always be able to act on what you want with such a law. That is why we have no objection to that amendment. That brings me to the end of my remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u42	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u43	That's right, thank you. I had a question about speed. The speed should increase. At least that is an argument for this law. I'm assuming that's with care. At least that was explained as well. But who is going to make those files on the basis of which the Minister will decide whether or not there will be a ban? Are those officials or people from the state's attorney's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u44	I think it's a collaboration, as it is now. Especially when you also want the advice of the College of PGs, there will be a much wider dossier, in which criminal law elements can play a role and other arguments. In the end, the entire file must be able to pass the administrative judge's test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u45	What I find complicated is that the initiators say that it must be faster and that the burden of the Public Prosecutor's Office does not increase, whereas the Public Prosecutor's Office itself assumes that it will. What is the assessment of the initiators? Is the workload at the Public Prosecutor's Office going to increase as a result of this proposal, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u46	We have not immediately received alarming reports that they think it is increasing enormously. We have actually received purely requests for the same speed in dealing with this law. That's how much they're waiting for. They just see things go on forever. In civil courts it sometimes takes forever, and in criminal courts it sometimes takes forever. We can do it faster. Sometimes it is important to draw a line very quickly, where you always have to offer people the opportunity to go to court. That is why we have chosen this construction. Eventually, it's faster when you don't have to wait for the whole process of justice. When the dossier is ready and the Minister has decided to accept this amendment by means of the College of PGs to ensure good advice and he sees that there is a real need to ban an organisation, then he can do so more quickly than a judge now. We are convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u47	Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u48	Yeah, I kind of have a point of order. I hear that Mrs Van Toorenburg is dealing with two amendments. There's more. Are you going to treat them, too? Does anyone else do that? Has it been done yet? Did I miss something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u49	Yeah, but I'm gonna say that very nicely. The amendment in part No. 19 discussed Mrs. Kuik in the course of the conversation. There will be a written response to the other amendment, because, as far as we are concerned, it goes beyond doing so very quickly. This is about the amendment to item No. 23. I just said something about the amendment on the pgs. The other two, the amendment to item No. 17 and the amendment to item No. 18, I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u50	What number does the amendment on the pgs have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u51	That's not what it says. I hear it's 19 now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u52	Bingo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u53	Bingo. Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for the answer to his questions, but I think that perhaps Mrs Kuik should also stand up, so that we can... I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the authors of this bill on all the efforts they have made to create and defend this law, in order to come up with legislation to tackle criminal motorcycle gangs. These motorcycle gangs are disruptive effects for society, intimidation and threats to local drivers, drug nuisance, money laundering, physical violence and many other criminal activities. I think we all agree that when we stand before the rule of law, we really have a duty to tackle these kinds of clubs. The approach of these motorcycle gangs is also part of the approach to undermining and tackling organised crime. So I see it in that light. A few months ago, at the first deadline of this bill, a number of questions were asked to me. I'll answer it in a minute. Before I begin, I would like to say immediately that due to the rapid pace in which this bill came, I only heard last Friday that it would be scheduled this week, I have not been able to submit a formal cabinet juice valuation to the mr. I intend to do that tomorrow, to be exact. I'm attached to that, too. I can assure you that I will send it to you before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u55	That's good to hear. Mr Van Dam has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u56	My question is a little in line with Mrs Van Toorenburg's remark. She started with: this isn't about motorcycle clubs. I hear the Minister now." I've been talking about motorcycle clubs myself so far. Given a potential voter on me, former MP Wim van de Camp, who is also an active member of a motorcycle club, I would like to mention the following. So what's the text we're giving you on this bill? I think that is a good thing to bring forward, because there are indeed a lot of people who are very neat motorcycling and feel addressed by this. So I think we should talk about undermining organisations. That's a little more abstract, but I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u57	I talk a lot about criminal motorcycle gangs. The combination of those two words actually says it. Let me start with the whole fundamental question, because we have two legislative proposals here. At least not here, but I've previously filed a bill to amend Article 22. We are talking today about the introduction of an administrative ban on criminal motorcycle gangs. There were a number of questions at first instance: how do the two relate? I see that as follows. I think those two are complementary to each other. The administrative ban is an instrument alongside the civil ban. They can also be used separately. I don't have the impression they're in each other's way either. So I see no objection in itself that they are dealt with separately; they could have been dealt with jointly, but you chose to do so separately. The administrative ban will not replace, but will be in addition to, the existing civil ban in Article 22. It is also more specific in this respect, because it uses not only the public order concept, but also indicates that it can only be applied to organisations that create, promote or maintain a culture of lawlessness. Now I am not shy of more work or more powers, but I cannot deny that the extension of the instruments along this path will create a way of using more speed and more decisiveness in the whole process of countering Article 22. There were questions as to whether you might not be able to achieve a little more speed or go a little further along the civil law route. There were two questions about that. With regard to the question of why I do not delete 'unremitting' from Article 140, I have already said and written a number of things, so I think I can keep that brief. This is legally complex in terms of legal protection. I don't think that's the route you should want to go on. The other question concerns the amendment that has been tabled. Could you not come to a reduction in the lead times, for example by saying that it should serve four weeks after filing the application? I have already replied in writing, but I noticed that the question has just returned. Why I am in my stomach with that, or why I am in the amendment to part No. 16 would like to dissuade it, is because, despite the fact that it looks sympathetic, it is going to get stuck in legal practice. In my view, a maximum period of four weeks in practice will not lead to acceleration, but rather to an increase in the workload for OM and the judiciary. Those are also the signals we're getting from those organizations. Imagine that. Upon submission of an application, the court shall send a copy to the party concerned and give him the opportunity to lodge a defence. If the call takes about one week, there's still three weeks left to respond. The defence will have to be lodged by default 10 days before the hearing in order to prepare the hearing carefully. By doing so, the legal person concerned will have at most 11 days to respond to the prohibition request. You have to ask yourself if that's reasonable. It's a very far-reaching procedure to say "you have to do that in eleven days," knowing that it's about non-simple requests. Those files often contain many hundreds of pieces. I am going to make a small leap towards the amendment of Article 22 which the cabinet intends to make and which, when it comes to the obligation of proof of the legal person involved, puts a little more in the basket. This does not make it easier for the legal person who has a ban over his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u58	I have a few questions about this. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Legal Protection is looking closely at whether this does not lead to less legal protection in practice, or whether it does not lead to problems. That's good, of course. On the other hand, the thought doesn't just fall out of the sky. That comes from the lawyer himself, from the NOvA and the advisory committee that has thought about this. You'd think they'd have looked at what it's doing for the profession that might have to stand up for a case like this. They themselves come up with the suggestion that you can also think about shortening those deadlines. That's one. Then the second. I also hear the Minister say that the D.A. is questioning this. That is, of course, quite extraordinary, if the Public Prosecutor also says that this civil procedure is taking so long. Of course, at some point, you have to choose as an Attorney General. Either you find the civil procedure too long and then you can think about whether it can be faster or you can choose the route of the proposers. I can imagine. But to say that it takes a very long time and then when we do something about the lead times, say that it is also complicated, I find that a bit strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u59	There are two things about that. One is that there are, of course, a number of cases being reversed in the case of a ban on administration. It gives the Minister a power to declare an organisation prohibited with a check by the judge afterwards. This leads to the possibility to act faster on the left or right. It does something about legal protection, but it also offers the opportunity to act more quickly. That just looks different in that civil-law trajectory. There an organization is forbidden only after the judge has spoken. Such a journey always takes time, with parties, lawyers and so on. Then the question as to whether it was not the NOVA itself who made this suggestion. It was, I say, the Committee on Company Law. That is a kind of joint committee with a number of parties, the NOVA and I believe a number of parties from the KNB. This includes the experts on company law. I can imagine that this is something different from the experts in the field of procedural law. I think the experts have just lost track of what it means in court when you're in civil proceedings and you have to stand up to it. I've just reported it in days. Those four weeks will be over before you know it and if you say effectively "you have ten or eleven days to file a defence" on something so fundamental... I'll just outline what I think will happen. It's never gonna work again in those four weeks. So what's to happen? Well, then there's got to be a hearing. That will then be a directing hearing and then the judge will see: it has not gone very carefully, so I shall postpone it. That management hearing must be held again, and that is where all the parties must return. This really leads to an additional burden which I do not know whether this will bring any acceleration in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u60	It might be worth getting in touch with the DA's office. I'm definitely gonna do that to ask them how they look at this. The advice is, of course, crystal clear. In any case, the Minister did not address my point about the OM, which seems to be in a bit of a gap there. I also wonder if it is not a bit of a strange argument in any other way. Suppose we have that administrative ban at some point, and on day x, the minister says "I forbid this club," which may have consequences for a huge event that was organized three days later. Then you are forced as a motorcycle club or other club that is included within three days to seek a lawyer who tries to take this down in a preliminary ruling. In such an administrative procedure, would you put the enormous time pressure on a legal person affected by such a ban? That is not an argument against this amendment, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u61	A provisional appeal is, as the term says, an interim appeal, in which the judge can press a pause button. In the 220 procedure, it is really about the judge who decides to ban that organisation. We have had experience of this, also with criminal motorcycle gangs. That takes quite a lot of time, and the petitions that are going to be there are really thick books. I don't know if it's real, even for the party sitting in the dock or having such a restraining order hanging over his head, and then getting such a book on his plate, to say, and then you're just looking for a lawyer and then you're just gonna have to settle it in a couple of days. I really think it's a little too rough for something so fundamental. For that we need a careful procedure, and also those equality of arms that I believe we all support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u62	On the same point, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u63	Now it is not quite clear to me why a minister can do it with an administrative ban, while maintaining the same care and legal protection, then still be able to do so much faster than it can on that route of Article 20 of Book 2 of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u64	Because during the administrative ban the judicial test takes place afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u65	But the Minister's argument was... if you take that judicial test forward, for example by that amendment that says it can be shorter, then the Minister says: no, it can't, because then it is no longer careful and then people lose protection. But this does not apply to the proposal that is being discussed here, namely the power of the Minister to prohibit an organisation? However, the consequences are equally far-reaching, and the organisations also have less time to defend themselves against them. I'm not standing up for these organizations or anything, but I just don't understand the argument. Then why can this be done just as carefully, much faster and with the same legal protection? It's just not clear to me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u66	In the event of an administrative ban or the administrative route, the Minister shall take the decision and appeal against it. Then you go to court, too, but until the judge decides otherwise, that ban will stand. But that too is often a lengthy process; that is not completed in a few weeks either. On the civilian route, on the other hand, you file a petition. Well, there's got to be a defense on that. If the court has then ruled, that is a final decision, although it is not immediately final, because it is also subject to appeal. In order to arrive at that judicial test and to reach that more final decision, I think you will need time in both that administrative route and in that civil-law route. But with the administrative route only the order is reversed. This provides the opportunity for the board to take the decision that has a direct impact. The parties can and should then go to court if they do not agree with that decision. I think that is a very careful and very good route for Article 2.20, because that article also has a wider scope, because it covers many more organisations than the proposal that the proposers are defending today. But I can also imagine that for specific organizations, for those criminal organizations, you are also introducing this route. In this respect, I would like to point out that additional criterion used here is a culture of lawlessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u67	Please continue. I don't really know how much longer you're gonna need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u68	I don't have much left. There is another question about Article 8. That is actually the constitutional issue. This can only be restricted by law. Mr Bruins asked: how does the Minister view that? I think that's always a weighting. Fundamental rights are not absolute. If you want to narrow that down, you're gonna have to take care of it by law. How specific that should be, is always a weighting. I think you should make that weighting, too. That's gonna happen across the street. But I note that the authors have used the concept of public order. In my view, that is a concept that is already very much of a case-law issue. But above that the criterion of that culture of lawlessness is also used. The prohibition decision is also subject to a wide range of legal remedies, including appeals, appeals and appeals. In addition, the Minister remains bound by the General Administrative Law Act. He must therefore also properly justify his decision. If that doesn't happen, the administrative judge will destroy the decision. Then something about the relationship with the state's attorney's office. Mr Groothuizen asked the question how to prevent parties in the administrative route from receiving information from the criminal investigation. A decision on imposing an administrative ban will always be based on information from the D.A. and the police. The Minister cannot therefore impose an administrative ban without having agreed on it. During the preparation of such an administrative ban intensive consultation is always taking place. That coordination will therefore consider whether the imposition of an administrative measure may interfere with an investigation. For example, this could be a reason for the Minister to say that we are not imposing an administrative ban. The prohibition decision and its justification shall be communicated to the parties concerned. The justification is partly based on information from the criminal record, but that does not mean that the police file and the prosecutor's file will become known to those involved. Perhaps a brief comment on the amendment to item No. 19. I understand very well what Mr Groothuizen wants there, so you're actually going to get some advice from the D.A.'s office. If that's the route, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Perhaps it is more purer than that, but I would suggest to Mr Groothuizen that you should see if you can use a term like 'hearing the college'. He seems to emphasise well, at least, that is how I see that Article 3:9 of the Awb states that when using an opinion, you must ensure that it is careful. For example, the college could advise not to prohibit the organisation, because of that crossing. That does not mean, of course, that the Minister should examine whether that criminal investigation is in order, but you really want to avoid that suggestion. Of course, a minister can never judge that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u69	I'm trying to understand. The Minister actually says: "See if you should use the word "advisory', because there is a specific administrative connotation there, which could potentially lead the Minister of Justice to look more closely at the criminal case than the purpose of the amendment is." This is mainly about questions like "is this the appropriate route?', "do we walk through things? Or "is the Minister going too lightly on this?'. Is that what the Minister is trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u70	Yes, if you read the explanatory notes on the applicability of the Awb, you might think that the minister should find something of what the college is suggesting about the criminal trial in his opinion. I don't think we should want to do that at all, because we want to separate those roles properly. I would therefore prefer, in the case of an adjustment to this point, to use a phrase in the vein of 'hearing the college'. I think that's a little bit cleaner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u71	I'm gonna think about that. Does the Minister agree with me that it is the intention that, in a follow-up procedure, the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the assessment made by the Minister on this matter should be made known, and in the file that is the basis for a possible decision to ban an organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u72	Yeah, exactly. And having "heard" is not just like a conversation "I've heard it," but it's actually written down on paper, so that you can put it in the basis of the decision. A few more questions, among others from Mr Krol, who is not here today. He asked about a number of suggestions made by the VNG, including the ban on the display of objects and materials referring to a prohibited OMG. He asked if that's helpful. I would like to draw your attention to the explanation given by the initiators of the legislative proposal. They indicate that a criminal continuation of a prohibited OMG may include extortion using club symbols, so-called "colors" or intimidation of other clubs. In addition, the entire activity of a club is prohibited and thus also the conduct which in itself was not punishable, but which has become punishable by the administrative ban. For example, the initiators call it driving around in clubcolors. I would also point out that my proposal to amend Article 2:20 introduces a judicial power of command. This may, during the procedure of a prohibition in such proceedings, order the prohibited organisation to take or leave certain measures. But that's really on a court-order basis. Then the suggestion of mayors whether they should not do this for their own congregation. I'm really not here for that. I don't think it's effective either. These kinds of clubs often cross the borders of municipalities, just because they're on motorcycles. If you're gonna do something like that, you're gonna have to do it right. Then it's only effective if it's rural. Finally. The regional mayors argue that a ban on support groups of OMGs is also desirable. If those support clubs are part of the legal entity or an outside entity or organisation within the meaning of this bill and the behaviour of those clubs can be attributed to the organisation, then, I read, they are covered by this prohibition. Mr President, I think that I have provided an answer and an opinion to all the questions and all the amendments that applied to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u73	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the proposers. I'm looking at the members for a second term. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Yeşilgöz, who has again become 23 years old today. We are not going to sing to you, but from this big blue chair a very nice birthday, for the last two hours of this day. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you say it, it must be true; thank you very much. Thank you once again to the authors, the initiators and, of course, to the Minister for reply. Six months ago we talked about this and said: how nice that we can be here together after Christmas to talk about such an important subject. I didn't expect this, six months later, to be the first opportunity after the whole coronage thing to talk about this important subject again. I call that because it is precisely in corona time that we see that gangs engaged in undermining crime, drug gangs, are very much looking at how they can get even more control over society. As far as I am concerned, this only makes the legislative proposal more topical and urgent. I am very pleased that it has been defended and explained in this way. Mr President, is it true that I have one minute left? I thought I had a little longer. I'm just checking. In the meantime, I'm gonna keep talking until you tell me to shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u75	That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u76	We had a number of questions. There has been a very broad answer to that, so thank you for that. So I think I'm going to focus on two questions that we had already asked last time and which I would like to know a little more about. The first is about the trajectories that should not cross each other. Both the initiators and the minister have gone into this for a long time. This is the amendment which states, in a slightly different wording, that we should ask the Attorney General for advice, so that we know whether that does not cross each other. The Minister has also indicated this. I would like to know what the consequences may be. This means, of course, that it does not cross each other. That is very fine....... but can it also mean that we are slowing down and that we are losing that speed? How can it look in practice that we ensure that the purpose of the bill, namely to keep the pace so that you can act quickly, remains in it? I'm still looking for that. I think it is a very sensible proposal, so I would also appreciate it if we could incorporate it, but we should, of course, ensure that we do not lose speed. Mr. Chairman. My second point concerns the mayors. I'll just grab it. That too was addressed by the initiators and the Minister, but I still have a few questions to ask. If I am right, they can deliver an opinion, which can then be taken into account. What would that look like? We have often discussed the role of the mayor here, also in a different context. They see things happen in their congregation, in their streets, and they want to act. Then you get a lot of different ideas, analyses and we end up here in the debate. How do we ensure that the mayors are safe and safe for themselves, of course, is also a very important issue, and in this context too, can they give an opinion and that the Minister can really act quickly? Those are two questions that I still have in connection with the comprehensive explanatory statement. Once again, thank you very much, because I think it is extremely important that we get this done quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u77	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see you're not generous with the time today, so I'm gonna try to do it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u79	Apologies. Something's set automatically. That's not the point. You have more time. So I did not even give Mrs Yeşilgöz a present; I gave her even less time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u80	The bill is about speed. So I will try to make a contribution to that myself. I would like to thank the authors for answering the many questions. I can see that they have done some serious work, and my group appreciates that very much. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I have been critical of the bill on a number of points, and I still am. That is why I tabled a number of amendments together with Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Buitenweg. I shall come back to that briefly. In the meantime it has also happened necessary of course. We have seen the progress report, which actually says: there is progress, but there are also a lot of problems. We have the judgment of the Supreme Court in the Bandidos case, from which you could derive: hey, we can manage this civil procedure, but there are also limitations on the other hand. In any case, we have dealt with in writing the Minister's legislative proposal in which he proposes a different solution to the problem that the continuation of the activities of the prohibited organisation will only be punishable if such a prohibition is irrevocable. To be honest, I do not think that the Minister's solution is so crazy. That is why I have no longer tabled an amendment in this respect. Mr. Chairman. I did do that about the faster lead times. I must say that the Minister did not quite convince me there. You could say that those four weeks may be a little tight, but the term of office is now no less than three months. Then don't sit in the necessary rack, so I wonder. And again, this suggestion comes from the legal profession. I'm definitely going to contact the lawyer to see how they look at that now, but it has something strange to complain about the lack of speed in a particular procedure and then not want to do anything about it, especially if you want to compare it later to see how it works and how those things relate to each other. That is the purpose of the evaluation and the definition of horizons. Then it's a little crazy to leave the one untouched. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned the assessment and the horizon. Very briefly. I appreciate that the proposers are open to that. This also says something about the open spirit with which they are ultimately prepared to look at their own proposal. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the amendment concerning the opinion or hearing from the College of Attorneys General. It's starting to show me more and more what the Minister is referring to. I'm going to look into that a little bit more: can I follow that up? And if so, I might come up with an amendment to that amendment. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a fifth amendment. I await the written response of the proposers. The Council of State says something about restriction systems and fundamental rights. My preliminary reaction is that it is a good thing to incorporate this into the law as strictly as possible. That, of course, also binds the Minister. In view of the debate that we have had widely and which I am not going to repeat, that is worth a sweet thing to me. Mr President, I will conclude. In the preliminary report of the National Information and Expertise Centre which I mentioned, I read that there are encouraging signals, but also problems. This is how clubs expand abroad. The report speaks of legal embarrassment in enforcement. Mr Van Nispen actually referred to that. I understand that the initiators can't solve all that in their bill. This question is therefore not addressed to the proposers but to the Minister. I would like to ask the Minister for Legal Affairs what he is going to do to strengthen international cooperation in order to prevent us from being very busy here with those motorcycle gangs but then reappearing across the border. What is he going to do to ensure that the instruments we have are used effectively? Mr Van Nispen raised a justified point. At some point we have a hammer, a screwdriver and a multitool.. very complicated....but it is awkward if you have something that is not then used as you could use it. I think we'll agree on that. So I'd like a response from the Minister on that point. I'll close with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u81	Thank you. I call Mr Van Nispen of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u82	Thank you. We all agree that criminal motorcycle gangs and other undermining organisations need to be tackled; indeed, not Mrs Van Toorenburg's husband, but undermining organisations and criminal motorcycle gangs, of course. A culture of lawlessness, extortion, intimidation: tackle. But it's not like we can't do that right now. My group appreciates the initiative, and certainly all the work, and the quality of today's response, but all this does not necessarily mean that I think it is a good idea, that it is necessary to introduce it or that this new instrument should necessarily be added to the toolbox. Because adding instruments is not necessarily better than using the instruments you already have more effectively. Again, I really understand why you're suggesting this. And I also really understand that there are people in practice who say they want this and that mayors are asking for it. But I still do not think that the argument is convincing, and I will stick to it because it mainly means that it takes so long through the courts. I continue to believe that banning a legal person is a serious instrument, and that this is more appropriate for an independent judge than for a minister, who is nevertheless a political passer-by. That's not disrespectful, but that's what a minister is. If the procedure can and must be improved, then we must do so. That is why we have put forward a number of proposals for this in the first place. All of Mr Groothuizen's amendments have also been very much appreciated. So I would much rather see more work being done than at present to tackle the criminal individuals. I believe that much more work needs to be done to take away crime money. Because if you smash the earning model, there's often not that much fun left to be in crime. Last Tuesday we discussed in detail the fact that the performance of this cabinet on this point is rather sad: historically low results. And I would much prefer that we make the way through the court so the current Article 20 of Book 2 of the Civil Code...................................................................................................................................................................... So I look more enthusiastically at the Minister's proposal that we are going to deal with than at this proposal. I also agree with the last words made by Mr Groothuizen on improving international cooperation and on removing local bureaucracy. Finally, I have two questions. The question to the Minister is: what exactly does it mean that there is no "formal cabinet juice" yet? He'll be here tomorrow. However, I have already heard the Minister say a few things. Was that informal? In my opinion, the Minister did not hide the fact that he was quite enthusiastic about this proposal. Anyway, what do we get tomorrow? Could that be radically different from what he said today? And perhaps I do not have my administration in order, but I still missed an opinion or judgment or whatever you call it on Mr Van Dam and Mr Bruins' amendment, the amendment in part No. 21. I haven't heard about that yet, but that could be me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u83	That's gonna be in the second term. I call Mr Bruins, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u84	Thank you. I thank the authors for the time and energy they have put into this bill. It was a lot of work. I would also like to thank the Minister and all the speakers today for answering all the questions. Also compliments for the support, because it has been intense work. It's a substantively tough and far-reaching bill. That takes a lot of preparation. With this bill we are going to lower the bar for the government just a little bit in order to ban organisations that are characterised by a culture of "lawlessness," a term that we have heard a lot today: systematic offences in the field of drugs, violence, liquidations and extortion. Those organizations have people behind them. They call themselves the "one percent": the one percent who think they are above the law and who stand up to the 99% of normal citizens who do comply with the law. It is good that the government is given more tools to tackle them. My name, together with that of Mr Van Dam, is indeed under one of the amendments, namely document No. 21. I'd like to hear what people think about that. That amendment regulates the payment of surplus funds to the State. This will prevent the continuation of criminal activities in the intervening period. With the amendment, I warmly recommend this law to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for the answers they have given this evening to the many questions that were put from the Chamber last time. The Labour Party, in the person of Mrs Kuik, is one of the initiators of this proposal that we discussed tonight. It is therefore logical that we should vote in favour. The adoption of this bill is a major step towards tackling organisations which, as it is so well known in the proposal, "create, promote or maintain a culture of lawlessness." We show that we are serious, by putting an extra instrument in a slowly better-filled toolbox. An administrative ban offers a relatively simple but sufficiently secure opportunity to deal with this, a possibility which is not used lightly, but which can be removed from the toolbox if necessary. And it is sometimes necessary; we know that. One of the amendments calls for an evaluation. We will wholeheartedly support that amendment. I also made a comment on this last time, but as far as I am concerned, it also takes into account what the prohibition of an organisation means in practice, for example for the job of a member of it who may have been a little less involved in all these activities than some of his associates. Finally, Mr President. Thanks to Mr Van Toorenburg, it is good that the initiators here clearly indicate that motorcycling can just be a very nice hobby, even if you do that in a club context. They have also clearly indicated that one motorcycle club is not the other: there is chaff and there is corn. And this bill wants to separate the chaff from the wheat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u87	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Dam of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u88	Mr. Chairman. I do not have much more to add at the end of this treatment, but in view of the cleaning work, I will nevertheless provide a contribution with some substance. Let me say first of all that warm words have been spoken about the proposers, but let us be honest: you feel a little limited when you make a contribution to a bill submitted by your own party. I am stubborn enough to call here what I want, but I think that in this respect the real appreciation is due to the D66 colleagues and the SP, because they have not failed to show themselves. So let's call that right here. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Yeşilgöz on her birthday. If she's turned 23 today, I'm gonna ask you some serious questions about the VVD's ability to count. At the same time, I am very reassured with regard to the current polls, because perhaps they have counted completely wrong there. It's possible. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question on the substance of the term 'public order'. A question comes from a question, because that concept is limited to the Dutch legal order? I understand now that I'm allowed to talk about criminal motorcycle gangs. If the gang members ride on their Yamaha to Belgium or Germany and behave misbehaved there, is that also covered by the concept of "public order" contained in our Code of Conduct? I should hope so. Maybe there's something else that can be said about that. Finally. It would indeed be nice if we could have an appreciation of the fantastic amendment I tabled together with Mr Bruins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u89	Yeah, it's already been promised. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u90	I will reopen the sitting and give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u91	Mr President, thank you very much. I still owe Mrs Buitenweg, who unfortunately had to leave, an answer on racism. I said it a little more flat, but it takes a little more legal explanation. I'm gonna do it very specifically. A ban should only be allowed if necessary on grounds of public policy, which was also a question raised by Mr Van Dam as referred to in Article 8 of the Constitution and Article 2:20 BW. Its implementation follows from the Constitution and its case law. I quote from the case law: 'actually constitute a serious violation of the fundamental principles of the Dutch legal system and which can disrupt society'. Examples of such acts include racial discrimination or statements such as inciting hatred. But in the context of an administrative ban, you still need the culture of lawlessness. That is what we are restricting ourselves to in this proposal. And that is, as we have explained, whether it has taken place or is being shared in an organised context. In a very theoretical case, this could be the case. However, I do not see that exactly, as I said in the first term. Football clubs generally act against racism with action plans etc. By the way, that is not always very successful, but the intention is there. We are talking about organisations that do not care about the world, which feel untouchable, where there is a danger. We must therefore be careful not to overstretch the scope of our legislative proposal for everything that we find reprehensible and which can sometimes be very reprehensible. Then a 2:20 BW ban is more obvious. I have promised Mrs Buitenweg that I will send her this answer, so that she will have it before we proceed to the votes next week. Then I come to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius' questions. Firstly, I congratulated you early this morning, but of course I could have done that here. I'm hoping you'll be able to close someplace cozy later. I really liked having you with us. Thank you for that. You had two enlightening questions about the answers we had given, namely the crossing of routes and, in particular, the amendment that is now before you and which you are charmed by. It is about the advice that needs to be requested from pg. We don't think so. Already that care is taking place. A lot of information is already being collected and tied up there. This can almost literally be handed over to the minister as a bundled bag. We do not fear that this will lead to delays. We also think that the suggestion made by the Minister on 'hearing' rather than 'opinion' is a good suggestion. That is what I am saying to Mr Grothuizen. You asked another question about the role and advice of mayor. They've already got them on the civilian route. They're getting involved in that, too. Close coordination is taking place. I believe that this will be secured in a good way, as it is now. Thank you very much for your support. Thank you also to Mr Groothuizen for his second-term questions. We have already given the reactions to the amendments. A written response follows, as we have promised. There is another question, but it lies with the Minister and not with us. You have heard what we have said about the opinion and what we would like to follow. In any case, thank you very much for your intensive involvement in this bill. Thank you very much to Mr Van Nispen. I would like to say more generally that you are ultimately concerned with your own judgment. I would just like to stress that our ban is not just about speed. It's also about the criminality and the pre-trial detention you can apply. If you're going to make another round of calls with a number of people, would you please take that into consideration? Thank you very much for your active involvement in this bill. You rightly had another question about the amendment to item No. 21. Mr Bruins also asked about the surplus. We think it is a very sensible amendment. It's something we would have left behind unjustly. We would like to give the amendment a ruling Chamber and it has our support. I have answered Mr Bruins' question. Thank you very much for your strong support. I'm going on to see Mr. Kerstens. Thanks to him, too. You are right to propose that the evaluation should take a very close look at the individual consequences. I think that this is also a cry of hearts which we will put to the Minister and which we endorse. We're about to get a picture of Mrs. Van Toorenburg's husband who looks like that. I'm curious. By the way, I have never been on a motorbike myself, but maybe that should happen sometime. Then it's on the wheat and not on the chaff. Finally, many thanks to Mr Van Dam. He had a very specific question about abuses abroad in relation to public order. The short answer is yes. The more nuanced answer is that you can take it with you when you are a Dutch legal person and you have also shown abuses in Belgium, for example. If you are an entity that only resides abroad and operates there alone, then it is obvious that it does not apply. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the answers to the questions that have been put to me. Thank you very much again. I hope for a positive vote next week. Thank you again to everyone who has helped to get as far as we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u92	Thank you very much for your initiative proposal. I completely forget that there is another question for the Minister to answer. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u93	Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions on my plate. Time limits and procedures. Behind those three months for appeal, there's a whole story. Higher appeal is complicated. You have to put a lot of arguments on the table at once. That's why I think you really need that time. Perhaps I could make a suggestion to Mr Groothuizen? These are adjustments under the 220 procedure. I am quite prepared to look again at the NSA, but also, for example, at the Court of Justice Council, at how these procedural issues are dealt with. Perhaps we can resume that discussion at that time. There were questions from Groothuizen, I think Mr Van Nispen also briefly spoke about international cooperation. Yes, there is a great deal already happening, either within Europol or bilaterally. I know that Mr Grapperhaus is talking to his colleagues about it, for example in large-scale drug investigations. Often you see that there is a lot of overlap with these kinds of criminal gangs, so these things are already running. But it cannot be taken up often enough with colleagues in our neighbouring countries. Then I come to local cooperation, closer to home. Something was said about the role of mayors and about the procedure. It was also asked: can local drivers not make more use of the opportunities that exist? This led to a brief debate in the previous round on the APVs and the stop calls. Yes, there are possibilities already in the system that may not be known everywhere. And yes, we must continue to work to make use of it. Quite frankly, it is often things that do not really tackle the problems at the root. Take, for example, stop calls. You can say at some point that we don't want that party in our congregation. Then, of course, the chances of it moving to another municipality are very high. With real solid criminal motorcycle gangs you have to have some sort of escalation, or actually a more thorough thing to stop it permanently. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Van Nispen's question: can we expect a formal letter from the cabinet? I hope in a very short version, but the cabinet always gives a formal response to initiative legislative proposals and whether there is any objection or no objection. I also attach great importance to its formal attachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u94	We will receive that letter before the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u95	Many thanks to the initiators, to the minister and to all colleagues. The bill will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
