ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u1	We will continue with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget, Room 35570-V. Tonight is the continuation and the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u2	I shall first give the floor to the Foreign Minister, whom I would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u3	Thank you, Chairman, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u4	Oh, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u5	Excuse me, Madam President. I have a small point of order. There was a report this afternoon about a Dutch journalist, in quotes, who would be supported by a foreign intelligence service to frustrate the MH17 case. I would like a letter from the cabinet on this, because that really goes very, very far. It is an attack on the Dutch rule of law to frustrate such an important legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u6	But this letter therefore relates to the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u7	It certainly relates to this budget, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u8	But how are we gonna do that? I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u9	We do not need to stop the budgetary treatment; I think the Minister can just reply. But it would be very nice if we could get that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u10	I'll take a look at the minister to see if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u11	A letter can certainly be. But if Mr Sjoerdsma means "tonight already," that letter will be very limited, because I know the message and... It doesn't necessarily have to be tonight, I hear now. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u12	Okay. I shall now give the floor again to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a budget treatment under a melancholy star. Mr Van Ojik said that in so many words, because this is the last budgetary debate for him, for Mrs Karabulut and for Mr Voordewind. Whether this is the case for others is in the hands of the electorate and the duration of the cabinet formation. But for the three of you, it's definitely the last one, Mr. Van Ojik. In any case, I would like to thank these three Members of Parliament, for whom this is certainly the last budget debate, for the fine debates we have had. They were sometimes sharp exchanges of views, but each one always had the commitment from its own point of departure to pursue a sensible foreign policy. I would also like to thank Mr van Ojik for the support that has been given several times for the deployment of troops and Article 100 letters, in which a government always strives for support that is wider than the coalition. It's always hard decisions. I have always appreciated the constructive attitude of Mr Van Ojik and his party. I'm just gonna keep thanking you. I would also like to add my voice to the large number of Members of Parliament who have expressed great appreciation for the repatriation operation, which involved the entire foreign affairs apparatus, whether it was in posts far away in the world or here in The Hague. There really are people who have stepped off their regular work to help with calling and organizing. People also reported themselves if they'd done the consular work in the past. That really was a time to be incredibly proud of the State Department. I very much appreciate the fact that you have seen it the same way. The fact that you have such a broad appreciation for this has really been seen with us at the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. I want to start with some reflections before I go into the specific questions. On the one hand, there was Mr Koopmans' question as to how the Dutch cabinet now deals with Dutch interests as part of or guideline of foreign policy. On the other hand, there was Mr Van Ojik, who actually expressed some concern about the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Both important questions have been considered in recent years, but in fact for a long time, a lot and deep. I have already taken a close look at what the Scientific Council for Government Policy said about this in 2010 in a very good report, attached to foreign affairs. That report actually addressed these questions exactly. That was ten years ago and that was, of course, a different period in a number of respects. The report looked back on different cabinets of different political compositions. As far as I am concerned, there is a very sensible balancing framework, in response to Mr Koopmans' question about how a cabinet, a foreign minister, weighs national interests in such a very complex world. That report is a trifle: first of all, the vital interests that a country must always safeguard, i.e. security, the core of economic survival, the rule of law. Two: the extended national interests needed to guarantee those vital interests. Then you come to the safeguarding of human rights and the international legal order, to ensure that international organisations, on which the Netherlands is very dependent, function properly. And three: the niches, as the WRR calls them, subjects in which a country can play a special role through history or location. Examples include water management or food supply. It's a three-stroke in which I recognize myself very much. Every foreign minister has his job description at the top: defending the importance of the country you are allowed to represent. I'm sure that goes for me, too. And that goes without saying: how can we ensure that we work well together and eventually get out? The same report deals with what is described as a declining public support for foreign affairs, and then I come to Mr Van Ojik's point. They describe how there is much less interest in society and also support for international topics that were actually taken for granted by parties in the decades before. They also indicate that there is a task for Foreign Affairs. The Scientific Council does not dispute how incredibly important it is, but it does indicate that it is an issue to continue to raise this interest in the immediate environment, in the official The Hague, outside the rather small circle of the usual interested parties, so that it can be anchored in Dutch society. In the years following that report, I myself have been involved in the successive Rutte Cabinets in various roles, and these findings have also been followed up. At the time, it was very important to move from foreign trade from economic affairs to foreign affairs. Mrs Ploumen has also played an important role in this. That is very much in line with the analysis I have made several times in the Chamber. A ticket for the Dutch Foreign Minister is that your partner knows: this minister comes from that country of those important companies and knowledge institutions, very closely interwoven. Even if he knows that I am going to tell uncomfortable things about the functioning of democracy or the rule of law in his country, he still wants to enter into the conversation, because it is also the country of those companies or organisations that have added value for him. That was an important response to that. In 2013, Docters Van Leeuwen's report was also published, which dealt extensively with what it meant for Foreign Affairs itself and the intertwining with the rest of the Hague world, which, of course, has become much more international. One of the steps taken at that time, and I was responsible for that again, was that the State Department took part in the General Administrative Service. It was actually the only ministry that did not participate in the exchange of senior officials. That's been happening for a while now, very successful. There are people from Foreign Affairs with great commitment and success active in other ministries and vice versa. I myself started a project a while ago, in collaboration with the Algemeen Dagblad and with Clingendael, in which we organise talks on Foreign Affairs, linked to opinion surveys that are also published, about what people think about foreign policy, what they think is important. In this way we try to break the point the WRR pointed out at the time, that it is very much a discussion between experts. This is, in part, inevitable, but that is very striking in foreign policy. This does not mean that one of these parts is ever finished, but it does mean that the discussion that Mr Van Ojik has sparked is not today or yesterday and that a whole series of steps have been taken. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction, I would like to address the relationship with the US and the political role that Europe must play. I would then like to comment on a number of specific country situations, Nagorno-Karabakh and Turkey, human rights and freedom of the press and, as a final chapter, on the consular issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u14	The Minister's historical review was very interesting. I remember Doctors van Leeuwen's report very well. Unfortunately, Doctors van Leeuwen recently died. One of the things he said was that the Foreign Office is very good in a lot of things, but not always in dealing with "I'm just saying it in my own words inherent tension or inherent contradictions, or with strategic choices that need to be made very often. That's always been with me. It's about whether you want to get something in the short term or in the long term. It also affects the discussion, I think, that Mr Koopmans sparked yesterday: what exactly is the Dutch interest? What tension can there be between the merchant and the vicar, or between the short term and the long term? Also in recent foreign policy are many examples of having to make a strategic choice, sometimes out of two evils. Look, choosing between good and evil isn't hard. Then you just choose what's right. But sometimes you have to choose between two evils.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u15	And sometimes you have to choose a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u16	I beg your pardon? Well, I'm trying a little bit to have the discussion with the minister right away at a certain level. And so far, you've been very patient, so I thought I'd just keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u17	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u18	I would like to ask the Minister whether he might recognize that these issues are now very common and that it is sometimes difficult to get the specific foreign policy perspective sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u19	I'm sure I recognize that tension. I believe that the WRR's balancing framework will help to do this: starting with the interests that a government has to defend in any case and following on from that, selecting what you should and should not do. We cannot possibly want to tackle all the problems or defend all the interests as well throughout the world, but you can make an assessment. In addition, there is inevitably always a political choice: how big do you think the Dutch role should be in an area, how much money do you want to spend on it? This tension is first settled by the electorate and then finally settled here by means of votes, amendments and motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u20	I am so pleased that we are now having a debate on what is really at stake in foreign policy. Yesterday I said on behalf of the VVD: for national interest. I am pleased that Mr Van Ojik has given his own interpretation of this. The Minister gives his own vision. But Mr Van Ojik, President-in-Office of the Council, says, through you in the direction of the Minister, that we must make strategic choices. I'm making a comparison with the report from ten years ago. When it was said that foreign policy was a bit of a doughnut: we actually want everything everywhere, but in the middle there is nothing. I see that it is with this minister that there is a focus, that choices are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u21	You're responding to Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u22	This is a question in this format, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u23	It's a question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u24	The question is this. We have to make choices, but the Chamber comes up with a lot of different topics on everything. We want the whole world better. That's what we all want. But we too must make choices. I would now like to challenge the Minister to indicate how he sees it, how he deals with all the different things we want. That's what he has to make choices about. And then he has to choose between the merchant, the reverend or the general, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u25	Or Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u26	Or Mr. Van Ojik!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u27	This cabinet period has begun with a number of strategic notes from myself and the other colleagues involved in international and security policy. For myself, that was the integrated foreign and security policy. The colleague of BuHa-OS had a note on this, the colleague of Defence and the colleague of migration. Then you will see that we focus on this infinite amount of topics and priorities in principle. Geographically, we have a strong focus on Europe and what we call the "ring of instability" around it. We have the traditional allies in NATO. We also have a number of priorities, for example on the human rights situation of women and girls. That way it's framed. I also recognize that the Chamber places its own accents. That is, of course, a democratic right. Then this is where the vote comes in. But sometimes I will indeed try to bring that back to the strategic priorities of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to the developments in the United States and the closely related question: how should Europe and the Netherlands in Europe position themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u28	Speaking of the importance of foreign policy for all of us, I would like to raise one major issue with the Minister. That's security. Foreign policy must serve our security and security elsewhere. I argued earlier in this Chamber and asked the Minister whether the Minister was prepared to acknowledge it. I also quoted a recent new study yesterday that the permanent war, called the war on terror, has actually resulted in more terrorism and a lot of refugees since 2001. Does the Minister recognise that by following this strategy we have also contributed to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u29	No. We have indeed had this discussion more often. The Netherlands intervened, with a large number of countries, when IS established a downright hideous regime in Syria and Iraq. It was horrible what happened there with non-believers, with women and girls. It was also used as a starting point and as a source of inspiration for terrible attacks. We commemorate Bataclan in these days, five years ago. All this required us to intervene militaryly, with a lot of others. Nobody does that lightly. And yes, that can also lead to violence on the other hand, but there was already incredibly much bloody violence on the other side. Fortunately, it has led to defeating ISIS as power with its own territory. I don't think the whole threat is gone, but it was an action that was urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u30	Of course, that is not at all the discussion either. I would like to put this to the Minister: does the Minister recognise that these wars and interventions have produced the results, among other things, but there are more that I mentioned yesterday? I am talking about the war in Afghanistan, from 2001, the illegal war in Iraq, the intervention in Libya and so on. Does the Minister recognise that these wars, the war on terror, supported by the Netherlands, have brought together at least 37 million people on the run, the highest number since 1900 if we were not to count the Second World War? If the Minister's answer to that is "no, I don't recognize it," I'm actually stunned. So this is our foreign policy. We're discussing the consequences here. War has become permanent; a breeding ground for terrorism. And when I ask you to reflect on that and acknowledge the share that we have in it, the Minister says no. That's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u31	Mrs Karabulut suggests that if the Netherlands had not acted with other countries in Afghanistan, she called that country; that was indeed the first in a series of refugees and a number of other countries, there would be no refugee and terror. She's suggesting it's all because of that gig. We all know why the United States and we had to act as allies in Afghanistan. That was because Al-Qaeda terrorists, organized from Afghanistan, had planes full of completely innocent people fly into the WTC in New York and the Pentagon in Washington, and tried to hit the White House. Those planes were full of innocent people. At that time, there was no military war on terror in Afghanistan at all. At that time, however, Afghanistan was not Switzerland with higher mountains and without cheese fondue. It was controlled by the Taliban. That was terrible, especially for women and girls. Ms. Karabulut sketches a world that has never been and claims on that base the moral high ground. Foreign policy is not that simple. Mr. Chairman. I am going into the relationship with the United States and the geopolitical role of the European Union. Each of you rightly raised the question: how should we look ahead to the relationship with the United States after Mr Biden's election victory? That looking forward begins with a long common history. After the liberation, we have jointly, but often under the leadership of the United States, built up the multilateral order, as it has been called, which we are all very committed to: the United Nations, NATO, the World Trade Organisation, the World Health Organisation. In the decades after the war, we have really had discussions in those organisations and with the United States. When I was very young, there was also a demonstration in the Netherlands against the Vietnam War, but that always happened against the background of that important common history and that responsibility for international organisations. If I try to imagine how such a first conversation with the new President Biden will take place, I think that will really be against the backdrop of that long joint history. It may well be that he uses the well-known quote from Kennedy to the Netherlands once again: do not ask what the United States can do for you, but what you can do for the United States. Since we, understandably, have all kinds of wishes for the return of the United States to the international stage, the logical question will of course also be asked to the Netherlands: what international role will you play? President Trump and his ministers have often pointed out to us that we too are committed to the 2%-Wales agreement for NATO. So did President Obama when Biden was his vice president. The same President Kennedy did in the 1960s. Undoubtedly, President Biden will also ask the Netherlands, should international military alliances have to be continued, whether the Netherlands will again take responsibility. Inevitably, our ability to allow the United States to move back in our direction depends on the answer we give. That makes perfect sense. Do you play on the same team together or would you rather watch, sideways, how others do the heavy work? Of course, I have seen very well that Mr Biden's and his team's plans go back in many respects to the international cooperation we are so committed to. Quite specifically, Mr Biden has already indicated that the US will return to the Paris Climate Agreement, which is crucial as a very large economy and the World Health Organisation. That is very important, especially now in the fight against the pandemic. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether we would call on the new government to return to the nuclear agreement with Iran, the JCPOA. Yes, we will. You know that this was one of the points on which we were openly disagreed with the current American administration. Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Helvert asked whether I would also call on the new government to withdraw sanctions against the International Criminal Court. I will. I have also done so in the direction of the current government. But I hope, of course, that the new government will actually withdraw those sanctions and, preferably, participate in the International Criminal Court itself. Mr. Chairman. The question of what I can actually do for the United States includes the role that Europe plays and that the Netherlands plays in Europe. A new US President will also expect Europe to assume its responsibilities on the world stage, especially in its own immediate surroundings and possibly wider ones. This will, of course, have to do with the role that can be played in the defence field, but also in the adjacent areas, because if you want to create lasting peace somewhere, you must also ensure that the foundations of the rule of law, the treatment of minorities, women, girls, economic conditions are guaranteed. So there too there will undoubtedly be a look at the Netherlands and Europe. Mr Sjoerdsma asked me to deal specifically with the desirability, in fact, of an increased European defence effort. I recently sent two letters about this together with colleague Bijleveld in response to research reports. It indicates that we are very much in favour of an increased European defence effort in the form of continuing and deepening ongoing important projects under fine names such as PESCO, the European Defence Fund and EU-NATO cooperation. That will not replace NATO. Both for political reasons and for defence reasons, I believe that we cannot do without NATO. For political reasons, because we have a huge interest in working together between the unfortunately relatively small number of free democratic states in the world. For military reasons, because we need the great force of the American army in combination with the atomic umbrella, as sad as it is that we need it, but it is a reality that we will continue to need in a world in which Russia, China and other countries have nuclear weapons. So reflections on a European role lead to a greater responsibility for Europe and the Netherlands in the defence field, but not without NATO. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert asked me to address specifically the proposal of the International Affairs Advisory Council on the creation of a European Security Council. This has been suggested by France and Germany, which has never really worked out. That is also my objection to the suggestion made by the Advisory Council. If you are talking about a Security Council, of course we are looking at the existing Security Council that exists, that of the United Nations. It has specific powers which the Member States are bound by because they are members of the United Nations. Then you accept that Security Council resolutions are binding, that the Security Council can decide to send out a peacekeeping force. When you talk about a new body that should also be called the Security Council, it immediately raises the question: what powers does it have? If these are binding powers, what does that mean for the Netherlands? The Netherlands would not be a member of this proposal. Should the Netherlands accept binding orders from such a European Security Council? That brings with it a lot. As long as you haven't answered those questions, as far as I'm concerned, it's not possible to say you want such a security council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u32	Maybe it's okay if you finish this. I don't know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u33	I still have a number of parts of the European foreign policy commitment and then I go to the next chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u34	Then I have Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Sjoerdsma and I also see Mr Van Helvert. I forgot to mention that you have eight interruptions in two. Or eight questions, that's okay. Then you can go there... Mrs. Karabulut is negotiating in the background. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u35	I think it's good in the Acts: eight interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u36	At 8 p.m. Mr Omtzig will replace me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u37	Oh, no, we're gonna have to hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u38	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u39	The Minister went from the relationship with the US to the construction of the European defence institutions quite automatically. I wanted to go back to the relationship with the current American government, if you don't mind. The Minister says, and I will summarize it: well, Biden will ask for that 2% again, as Obama actually did and even further back. But the difference between Obama and Trump is, whatever you think of that request, you can say from Obama that he also invested in relations with the allies in the international legal order. I really cannot think of anything in which the current President has invested in the relationship with the Netherlands, let alone in the international legal order. That is why I am so surprised at the fact that the Dutch Government is taking so much trouble to say something critical about the relationship with the United States of Donald Trump. Because for his part, nothing has been done in the last five years to maintain the relationship, the ally relationship with the Netherlands. I dare say that, and I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u40	The Dutch Government is working with the democratically elected leader of our greatest ally, just as we are working with democratically elected leaders of the countries around us. That's not uncritical. Mr Van Ojik cannot stand it. I have just mentioned the example of the Climate Agreement. In my very first conversation with the American colleague, I really said that I regretted that. At that time, the agreement with Iran had not been terminated. I argued not to do that. As far as the World Health Organization is concerned, I have indicated that this was not in the American interest either. So that was really not uncritical. Nor is it the case that the United States has not invested in the relationship with the Netherlands and Europe in recent years. We have worked intensively in very different areas, such as the anti-ISIS coalition we were just talking about, and also in the economic field. Mr Kaag was primarily responsible for this. We have had the Global Entrepreneurship Summit, which illustrates once again how much our influence is intertwined with our economic strength. We have sometimes had differences of opinion on human rights, for example on sexual reproductive rights. But, for example, when addressing China to the position of the Uighurs, we worked very closely with the United States. So the image is really more nuanced than there would have been no investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u41	It would be a little weird if we started arguing with each other now and all of us were going to give each other examples. The United States has put us in Syria for a great surprise. We are allies, but the decision to withdraw troops has been taken without any consultation with allies. The same applies to the attacks in Iraq at the beginning of this year and to diplomatic initiatives in the Middle East and North Korea. I think the examples are for picking up. I am not saying that the Netherlands is uncritical. Of course, the Netherlands has criticised a number of points. That's very good, I think. I noticed that the Prime Minister congratulated the President-elect this week, but immediately after saying: I also worked very well with his predecessor. And this minister also gave an 8 to cooperation with the United States last week. I find that very high, after four years in which an American president has really done a lot of destructive work. The Minister doesn't have to agree with me, but I'm committed to saying it. If you get Trump in line with Obama and Biden and you say they're asking all three of us to do more defense, I don't think you're doing justice to this president's predecessor and successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u42	It would be a foreign minister to blame if the relationship with the largest and one of the oldest allies would not get 8. A part of that relationship consists of strong discussions and critical points. Mr Van Ojik mentioned a number of justified criticisms, which I also raised. Sure, that was part of it. But there are also all those points where we have worked together. That is not only true at the level of governments. Governments go and come, so do I and our prime minister. This connection also applies in so many other places in our society. I know that you, as a chamber, have kept in touch with the House of Representatives in recent years. That's what I did. The congressmen, think tanks, lots of companies and universities. There you will hear quite different opinions, but it is precisely this deep awareness that we as countries are connected to the building of the international order that is important. A lot of people in the United States indicated that they felt that their country should change course. Those are of course also the contacts you maintain and cherish. This relationship is broader and deeper than the relationship between elected directors who, with the full mandate of the electorate behind them, of course make choices that you sometimes disagree with and sometimes disagree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u43	I agree briefly with Mr Van Ojik, who characterizes the rule of our ally the United States, under Trump, as destructive. As far as I am concerned, it goes far beyond differences of understanding about policy. The withdrawal from the World Health Organisation was not only meant as "we are no longer involved," but it was also the undermining of that institution. The result is that justified criticism, which is best possible, was given too little room for manoeuvre at the International Criminal Court or at the United Nations. I was pretty surprised about those 8. The minister and I sometimes disagree, but if he already gives Trump an 8, I get a 16 from him, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u44	Mine too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now my question. From that destruction, hopefully, we will move towards a constructive role for the United States. That is why I asked: will the Netherlands participate in the Summit of Democracies announced by the President elect? Perhaps the Minister will say that we have not even received an invitation, but broader: is the Netherlands planning to contribute to the democratic awareness of the United States and the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u46	I'm gonna go to Mrs Ploumen's report figure first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u47	You had hoped for more, of course. I think it's a 20, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u48	I can reassure Mrs Ploumen. I'm not giving reports to Mrs Ploumen. That's what the voter does. I'm not reporting to the President of the United States or any other country. That's what the voter does. The report was about the relationship. That's a two-sided thing. Then the summit of democracies. Of course we're in the party. Mr Koopmans and Mr Omtzigt have tabled a motion on this matter. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u49	We don't have to talk endlessly about those reports. I also pointed out the relationship. It has really surprised me that the Minister has rewarded the relationship with President Trump with an 8. Then there is my constructive and positive comment on this minister. Well, that's a good thing to say. Here's what I asked him. This new president, President elect Biden, and Vice President Harris, unlike Trump, intend to stand up for women's and girls' rights to make decisions about their own bodies. I asked the Minister to support that. In the written reply, he did so in full. I would like to thank him very much for that, because I think it is an important signal to the rest of the world that we respect the rights of another and not impose our will. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u50	Thank you for that. Mrs Ploumen has worked very hard in her time as Minister. Indeed, on this point I am specifically pleased that the new President has indicated his intention to change course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u51	Then I have Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Karabulut. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u52	I'm not going to repeat the interruption entirely, but I do think many of us would have graduated cum laude if I looked at what Trump did to get this 8. Because unannounced troops withdraw from Syria, sanctions against the European economy, sanctions against the criminal court...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u53	You too get a high grade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u54	I don't know if that's the best bilateral relationship ever. I understand this amazement a little bit. I also think it's a little unwise, because I think Biden's team will watch and think: hm, why did he like it so much? But now the question. The question is about these elections. The OSCE has said, and I will just quote: 'These elections have been affected by Trump'. They've been compromised by Trump's victory claim and his claims of fraud. This cabinet is silent. I would like to ask this Minister to either make it very clear that he shares this statement by the OSCE about these elections or to say something about the fact that an American President is going through the democratic process. Where we immediately mention this in Belarus, we are silent here. I would ask the Minister to break that silence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u55	The OSCE has sent observers, and I think the Dutch too. They've brought out a valuable report. I'm certainly not questioning that report. I also note, and I also believe the OSCE, that there are currently legal proceedings concerning the allegations of fraud. Where there are legal proceedings, it is not appropriate to comment on them. The Dutch government has sufficient justification to establish a majority for Biden. That is why we have been able to congratulate him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u56	We are members of the OSCE. We support the standards and standards that come with elections, to which the United States has committed itself. Ironically, it was also the United States which, I think, made a statement about Côte d'Ivoire sometime this week. We agree with these values, but I wonder why the Minister does not agree with that statement. It's right here. Trump has affected this election. He doesn't have to say that Trump has walked right through this, the words I use, but I do ask the Minister to make it very clear here that we expect an ally, and certainly the President of our perhaps most important ally, to respect local and national democratic standards, as we have agreed with each other. That's what you can expect from people who don't like you very much, but that's what you're sure to expect from your friends. I say to the Minister once again: that must be about both the comments made by Prime Minister Rutte, who thought it was remarkable. It must simply be clear that this does not fit and that the Minister fully supports this OSCE declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u57	I've already reported that. We are members of the OSCE. The OSCE has carried out useful observer work there. There is no reason to comment on her statement. At the same time, I note that there are cases in progress and I note that the Dutch Government has acknowledged Mr Biden's victory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u59	Then I'll be back at European abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u60	I forgot that Mr Van Helvert also wanted to ask you a question. First Mr Van Helvert and then Mrs Karabulut. I forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u61	Thank you. I had a question for the Minister about the Security Council. Can I ask that already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u62	Yeah, I don't know where...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u63	Okay, I'm gonna suggest it now. The Minister says: I find it difficult to get to the point, because we do not yet know exactly what it should look like, and until we have worked it out, we cannot get to the point. Well, I'd like to ask you to change that. Perhaps the Minister could say: I can see how this could be a possibility for the Netherlands, even after the advice from our advisory bodies, who have said that a Security Council would be an idea to increase the impact. The alternative is that this Council is not there and that the United Kingdom is no longer included in European foreign policy. A security council could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u64	I very much hope that after the Brexit we will be able to cooperate with the United Kingdom in the field of foreign policy. There's no difference of opinion on that. Even after the opinion of the International Affairs Advisory Council, that Security Council raises in particular the question of exactly what that Security Council's competence will be. Mr Van Helvert talks about more power, but that raises the question whether Mr Van Helvert's party and other parties in the Netherlands accept such a council giving binding orders to the Netherlands. The United Nations Security Council is entitled to do so, following the mandate we have given. I do not know what binding tasks these other countries, the supporters of that council, are thinking of for the Netherlands. As long as I don't know, I can't have a clear opinion on that at all, but I'm reluctant to call for a new body that could impose binding orders on the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u65	No, it is not easy, I understand that, but for that we have also appointed a minister here in the Chamber, with a ministry, to whom we can say: think with us if we think things are not going well as they are. We get an opinion that a Security Council can be a solution. We know that a Security Council is active at the United Nations. Does that always work great? No. But does it work? Yes. We also know that NATO, for example, is working in a different way. Maybe a security council could take some of that, too. So the question is actually: will the Minister himself consider how that might be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u66	Well, sure. This thinking leads to the important question: what should the powers of that Security Council be? I am very reluctant to impose binding orders on the Netherlands. That restraint does not lead me to the conclusion that we must now work on it further. I understand that Mr Van Helvert is enthusiastic about it. I am, of course, open to his thoughts on what the tasks of that Security Council should be and in what areas such mandatory powers would be. I now come to the conclusion that I am very reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u67	Yes, enough, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u68	This does not apply to other areas of EU foreign policy. Mrs Ploumen and Mr Sjoerdsma asked me whether I would continue my efforts to break the unanimity requirement on parts of foreign policy. It's gonna stay that way. In concrete terms, the Netherlands has proposed sanctions and positions on humanitarian missions. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved so far, not even after the very invigorating decision on sanctions against Belarus. I will continue to make every effort to do so. Another route to strengthen European foreign and security policy is to strengthen sanctions instruments. Of course, our common desire for a human right sanction regime is at the top of the list. There's a cybersanction regime. Where necessary, the Netherlands certainly does not belong to the reluctant countries when it comes to applying these sanctions. There is also a major role for the European Union in monitoring external security where it affects the economy. This is about industrial espionage, the threat that 5G networks can pose to security in the EU Member States. The debate on strategic independence must certainly not lead to a closed European market, but to the question of where we are vulnerable and how we can prevent that vulnerability. We regularly manage foreign security policy, including at the highest level, in the European Council, among the Heads of Government. These are all areas where the Netherlands is strongly committed to a more robust European foreign policy. Mr President, this brings me to the end of the block of US-Europe. Then I turn to the questions relating to a number of specific countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u69	I have Mrs Karabulut and Mr Koopmans. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u70	I think the Netherlands needs its own foreign policy. My first question was: will we stop participating in permanent warfare, which brings us more insecurity, more refugees and more terrorism? The Minister doesn't want to know about that, but I'd like to take another shot. An even bigger problem is nuclear weapons. As we have all recently seen on TV, it has also recently been confirmed by the Minister of Defence in the Netherlands, in Volkel, American nuclear weapons. This is contrary to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. That was also signed by the Netherlands. Article 2 thereof prohibits this. In view of the danger, the enormous amount of arms and also the enormous amount that the United States has earmarked for modernisation, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister if he would ask him immediately, when the new President of the United States is installed, to have the American nuclear weapons taken back from Dutch soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u71	The cabinet does not make any announcements about the location of nuclear weapons in the Netherlands or Europe. So I will not go along with Mrs Karabulut's speculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u72	These aren't speculations. A press release from the Defense Department has been issued. Maybe the Secretary of State missed that. Mr Stoltenberg has been here. They were in Volkel at the airbase on the photo. It stated that this exercise was there and that it was part of greater transparency. This was then confirmed by the Minister of Defence at WNL on Sunday, I believe. I would like to say to the Minister that this, which was, of course, a public secret, is contrary to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Article 2. Could the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u73	Mrs. Karabulut continues to speculate. It is no secret that Dutch fighter jets have a nuclear weapon mission. So they're able to deploy nuclear weapons. We all hope that will never be necessary. That was for the F-16. That goes for the F-35. If you have a job, you also have to practice for such a scenario. That's what the press release was about. The Netherlands adheres to its treaty agreements. These agreements mean that Member States do not provide information on the presence of nuclear weapons in the Convention Area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u74	I would like you not to count this as interrupting, because the question has not been answered. I'm repeating myself. This has been explained by the Department of Defense in letters, with nods and with media performances. I also ask the Minister a substantive question. This is contrary to Article 2 of the NPT. Will the Minister comment on what I'm telling him later by letter? Of course, it can't be that the government, Defence and Foreign Affairs are communicating with one voice about this and that when I ask questions about it, they withdraw their bullshit again. It's on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u75	Mrs Karabulut has also asked written questions about this, which lead to exactly the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u76	The substantive question I asked the Minister in my speech is unanswered. The Minister refuses to answer it. I'm starting to wonder why he's refusing to do this. I would like a written reply if the Minister is not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u77	I've got it all set up. I've reported it to you, too. Parliamentary questions have also been asked, which are answered. These all lead to exactly the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u78	The practice of nuclear weapons has been admitted. It's in letters from Defense and it's been confirmed on television by the Secretary of Defense. The practice of nuclear weapons is contrary to Article 2 of the NPT. I want to get an explanation about this. Is this true? If this isn't right, how about it? That is my right as a representative of the people! We don't live in a banana republic, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u79	The answer has already been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u80	You two don't agree. That's what I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u81	It's not about disagreeing. The point is that the Department of Defense has made its own announcements about a nuclear weapon exercise. Mr Stoltenberg of NATO was there. There are nice pictures taken of it et cetera. The Minister of Defence was then at WNL on Sunday. There the following specific question was put to her: are there American nuclear weapons? She nodded. She confirmed that with it. I note that it is contrary to a treaty in which we, as the Kingdom of the Netherlands, are parties to the treaty. I want to get a response from the Minister. That's it. We have that right here in the Netherlands, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u82	It doesn't lead to another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u83	In my first term, I said the following with regard to the election of Biden. We need to strengthen the transatlantic bond, but let's not press the snooze button either. Let us make sure that we really wake up and that we as Europe can stand on our own feet. That's what this minister actually says, in so many words. But when it comes to the concrete side, it's like: we're extending it, we're deepening it, and we're taking more responsibility. But if you look at what is hidden behind these words, then it is actually lacking in concrete measures. That's also what the AIV notes. I have the following question to the Minister: if he is aware of the urgency of keeping our own pants on European security, what are the things he is going to do extra? What does he think should be done more, to which we are putting additional commitment, capacity and resources against? Where should there be more cooperation? To Mr Van Helvert he says: I don't like that security council. There are questions, but they are also questions that the Minister and his officials can answer. So I have the following specific question to this Minister: what is he going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u84	First of all, the concept of "stopping your own pants." I have stressed that we must play a greater role within NATO. For political reasons and in the interests of our security, I am very committed to that alliance. Europe must play a greater role within NATO. This means that we wholeheartedly support the ongoing initiatives. The Netherlands also plays a prominent role in this, for example in the mobility of military equipment. We also support the increased commitment to security and defence in the new EU budget. A underlying question, which all parties will have to answer in their election programme, is at what rate they want to reach 2% again in a subsequent cabinet period. Part of such a greater European role in NATO is more money, because greater means more money. Calculations have been sent by the European Court of Auditors, including to this Chamber, on what it would mean financially if Europe really were on its own. For political reasons, I wouldn't think that was wise. It also raises major questions about how Europe should then take care of its nuclear umbrella. How, for example, is decision-making going to take place in such a case? However, the amounts pointed out by the European Court of Auditors are phenomenal. It talks about more than 300 billion at European level. Well, those are amounts we're not just gonna cough up. So sensible steps towards a greater European role within NATO!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u85	That's a fogscreen that I think Hans Kazán would be jealous of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u86	Mr. Sjoerdsma, you're unheard. Why don't you take the other microphone? Maybe it'll be easier. It's helped sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u87	No problem. It's only two meters, and I can cover it. I ask the Minister about these concrete measures. I can understand why he'd like to go to the Secretary of Defense's premises and talk about the finances. That is fine, but I would also like to say that this is not the only way to strengthen security in Europe. Then I will just take a quick look at the recommendations of the AIV and the lack of concrete steps taken by the cabinet. I would like to mention what Mr Van Helvert says about the Security Council. Then the Minister says: I have questions about that. That may be so, but we need to get a move on! Then it doesn't give a pass to point to parties and their defense deployment. We will see this defence commitment later, but what we can do now is to focus on foreign policy. That's what this minister stands for. It doesn't say the Secretary of Defense, it says the Secretary of State. I would therefore like to hear an answer from him to the question of what more we are going to do. And I am simply talking about measures and not about supporting the existing measures. I am talking about what more we are going to do and what more we can do to control defence security as much as possible. That we can't do that now without the United States, at your service!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u88	We can't just pretend that you can have that discussion without talking about the money. That's crucial. We will therefore have to discuss the powers and the question of where this nuclear umbrella should come from. Those are the crucial questions. 'Away with the nuclear umbrella' I hear Karabulut say, and that is indeed a position. But you can't think of those questions as side-stages. They're crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u89	I never actually do that, but I am going to ask the same question as Mrs Karabulut, namely not to count this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u90	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u91	This is simply not an answer. The Minister can say "you have to do this and that, because I want it to be about money," but I don't want to talk about that. I want it to be about the minister's policy area and the measures you can take to make us safer. That is what I am asking of this Minister. I am not asking him to say that Mr Van Ojik should include more money for defence in his election programme. It may do so, and we can all hope so, but it is what we can do now to make Europe safer. That could be about a security council, and if the minister doesn't like it, then he's going for something else. He can also say, for example, that he wants to strengthen the military headquarters. You may, but I'm asking you, Minister, and then I don't want the you-bake "it has to be about money." As a coalition, we ensured this and D66 also helped to reverse the trend of austerity in the autumn agreement. I ask what this minister can do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u92	We are taking further steps at European level. But with all due respect, if you want such a security council or such a headquarters as the backbone of your security policy, then those other questions are just more in line, because they are so crucial to that security policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u93	Then let me try it this way. Does the Minister agree with me that the European response to Libya, Syria, Turkey and Belarus, which are all crises at our border, is far from optimal and that we should do everything we can to ensure that our diplomatic security response and our rule of law response are as well and as quickly and as clearly as possible and as decisively as possible? That's the job of the State Department. What can we do to ensure that this whole, this strategy, is because in the end, defence is an executive apparatus, not a policy-making apparatus, which is as good as possible, and that cooperation is as good as possible, better than it is now, in order to make Europe more effective? The answer to that is not just more money. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u94	I think it is very good that Mr Sjoerdsma mentions a number of concrete examples: Syria, Belarus, because you really have to counter the questions about a security council or a headquarters, or other choices: what would that mean for the situation we are facing? That was exactly why, for example, I raised the question of jurisdiction when you were talking about such a security council. Could that be a security council that could say: European countries, you must now contribute to an operation in Belarus or Syria? Would that not be for military action, but for material support, for example? Can that material support include weapons or no weapons? Those are very important questions. As long as you haven't discussed the answer to those questions with each other, because those questions are valid, but that's why I'm asking them too quickly to say: so that security council needs to be set up. Because perhaps we say to each other: we do not want to give that power out of our hands. That is why there is this coherence in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u95	I am a little surprised that I hear a number of colleagues talking about security, which is always nice, but that they are not talking about investing more in defence and being more powerful, but about organising a new consultative body, a consultative body that the Netherlands would not even join. That consultative body could therefore decide, as the Minister called it, to start supplying weapons or to start a war somewhere. Perhaps it is not even in accordance with the international advice we have, but the Netherlands, which is not one of them, should be involved. I would like to invite the Minister to speak out a little more clearly and to agree with me that this would therefore be bad for safety, that it would not be democratic either, because the Netherlands has nothing to say about it, that it would not be transparent, that it would not be legitimate and that it would still be a bit crazy, because then we would all have to do things without us having any role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u96	Mr Koopmans asks me to say something about democracy and legitimacy. I must also say that I cannot do this without at least having a proposal on what powers that Security Council would have. That is why in response to Mr Koopmans' question, too, my opinion remains: in order to be able to express an opinion on the desirability of a Security Council, you really need to go a few more strokes into the question of what its tasks and powers are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u97	I agree with the Minister, but the proposal put forward by some here is therefore a council in which France sits, in which Germany sits and in which the Netherlands is not in principle. It seems to me right to say: well, that does not seem to be a good thing. That is simply not good for Dutch security, because then we no longer know what tasks our men and women who fight terrorists, for example, get. It's just not good for our safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u98	I have already indicated that if such a council is given real powers, then I would have great difficulty with it, because it is an infringement of our autonomy. But since that has not worked out, I cannot say at the moment whether or not I would like such advice. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go to the questions that have been asked about a number of specific countries. I will deal with the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh, the relationship with Turkey and the relationship with Suriname. First of all, Nagorno-Karabakh. It is very understandable that this was a prominent part of the contribution for many people. A lot of violence has been used in a conflict that has been going on for decades. Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Karabulut asked for an opinion on the ceasefire. Since we do not yet know the details of the agreement, I fear that this opinion should be limited to the observation that it is in any case a good thing that the weapons remain silent. This is also the call that the Netherlands has always made independently, but also at EU and OSCE level. For Armenia, it is certainly painful that the status of Nagorno-Karabakh remains unclear, but Azerbaijan has also had to make important concessions, such as allowing Russian troops to guard the cease-fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u99	It's a very clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u100	Mr President, just a clarifying question. The Minister said: I cannot say too much about it yet, because the details are not yet known. I saw a plan. That would have been the plan, but I may be missing something. What exactly does the Minister expect when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u101	Not all the details of the agreement are known yet. That doesn't just apply to me. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u102	Does the Minister mean that the agreement is still being worked out on these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u103	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u104	Can the Minister tell us when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u105	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u106	You don't expect it or anything? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u107	I think it's a good thing I'm talking about Nagorno-Karabakh...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u108	Then you will have the opportunity, Mrs Karabulut. Maybe the Minister will come back to that on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u109	... continue. In any case, the agreement states that the Armenians living in Nagorno-Karabakh and in two occupied parts of Azerbaijan can either leave safely or return. It's an important right. This is indeed an important element that needs to be further developed: how do you guarantee security and how do you guarantee, on top of that, the economic opportunities and opportunities for developing rights as minorities? Fortunately, the agreement points to a role for the UNHCR of the United Nations in this respect, but further negotiations will certainly be needed in order to achieve a truly sustainable settlement. For as long as that is not the case, the risk of a resumption of the conflict remains. The Dutch commitment remains that the OSCE continues to play the important role it has always played in the past in an attempt to mediate. All the parties concerned are represented in the OSCE, including the Netherlands. In drawing up the agreements, we consider this group and its component, the name of the Minsk Group, to be of great importance. We also think that this is the way forward for the various investigations, which the Chamber asked for yesterday in a motion. The Netherlands will advocate in the OSCE that investigations into possible war crimes, the possible use of cluster munitions or chemical weapons, for example, take place along that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u110	Mrs Ploumen and then Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u111	I agree that the OSCE should play a role, and specifically the Minsk Group. I do not believe there is much disagreement about this either, but the reality is that on the outskirts of Europe Russian troops must now be able to maintain a so-called peace. So the reality is rather far from the desire of the Minister and myself, namely that the OSCE should play a role in this. I would like the Minister to respond to that. For what does that mean, for example, for a response from the European Union to the situation that has arisen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u112	The European Union has always stressed the role of the OSCE. I agree with Mrs Ploumen that the fact that only Russia now provides peacekeeping forces has the sole benefit of a cease-fire and of course we would much rather have seen an international force there. Now that the situation is as it is, it is not the most desirable, but the situation on the ground, the only way forward is to continue to press ahead with the further development, with the OSCE's commitment and much wider than the present parties, and to carry out the investigations that are indeed urgently needed along that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u113	I hesitated for a moment, because of course I do not disagree with this. I also see other colleagues nodding in agreement. But in this conflict and in the war we have seen over the last few weeks, months, we have always been faced with facts, and not just us, but especially the people there. That is also a bitter pill for the Armenians. What steps does the Minister see to engage the OSCE more? Does this include, for example, an arms embargo, which we asked for earlier? I'd like to hear the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u114	I'll be right back to the questions about an embargo. Major OSCE members, such as France, are represented in the Minsk Group. Along this route and along the route of EU President Germany, with which I spoke this week, we call for a role for the OSCE. There's no difference of opinion about this being the route. This has not been achieved, but there is the pressure of a large number of like-minded countries to follow up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u115	First Mr Voordewind and then Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u116	On the one hand, I am relieved that there is a cease-fire there. At least the violence is temporarily stopped. The Minister is right to state that in that statement, it is one A4 with nine points, nothing is said about the position of Nagorno-Karabakh. They have returned all the surrounding provinces, with a small corridor controlled by the Russians. But the security of existence of Nagorno-Karabakh is, of course, far from secure, not even by the Russians. In replying to our parliamentary questions, the Minister says that he does not yet know exactly who started the war. It does not make much sense to look back, but I was surprised to hear that from the Minister, because we have heard reports from the various prime ministers, including President Erdogan and Aliyev, who have said that they will continue this fight to the bitter end. We have seen that Turkey has deployed terrorists. So I still do not understand why the Minister is so insecure about who started this war, when it concerns 3 million Armenians against 10 million Azerbaijanis and 82 million Turks. Can the Minister reflect on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u117	For the answer to the question of who exactly started, you must have objective information. I just don't have that at my disposal. It is also not surprising that the Netherlands does not have an intelligence device in that area. I don't have that information from any other intelligence agencies either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u118	Yeah, but then I think, how come we don't have any information about this? The French have information. They are of course closer to the Armenians, the Minister will say, but also the Americans have information. We don't have any information. Anyway, let's take a step past that. It's about the situation now. I also note that the Minister said that Armenia would have used cluster munitions, but I do not read that in any of the reports of Human Rights Watch. So perhaps the Minister can say something about that. Let's talk about Artsach's status. What does the Minister think that the efforts of the Netherlands should be to offer Nagorno-Karabakh more security than is currently the case in the Republic of Artsach? Are we totally dependent on the Russians? Can we do nothing but watch the Russians spread their tentacles in the Caucasus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u119	I have just indicated that our commitment is not to leave that alone in the hands of the Russians and the Turks, but to allow the OSCE to do its job there. Mr Voordewind had asked me if I would support an independent Nagorno-Karabakh. I have indicated, also in writing, that international law has criteria for supporting an area's search for independence. Those criteria, which are long-term and gross violations of the right to self-determination of an area and which have exhausted all the possibilities for finding a solution, are, in the view of the Dutch Government, but in the opinion of all governments in fact, not fulfilled at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u120	Finally, Mr President. That's just the question. This plays in the American Senate and the French Senate. I am talking about the discussion as to whether this could still be a solution, because we simply do not know whether Nagorno-Karabakh is in safe hands with the Russians. So my question is as follows. Not enough human rights violations? You didn't violate the law of war? Cluster munitions have been used. Citizen targets have been hit. We've got phosphorous in. I can sum it all up. What else needs to be done to take an area seriously after all? We also did it in Kosovo for a while. Why are we so hesitant about helping to secure that area, perhaps by offering them recognition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u121	The situation is, of course, carefully monitored, but I am frequently called upon in this Chamber to uphold international law. That lays down a number of criteria. Those criteria may change on the ground. Mr Voordewind is right about that. That is what we are following carefully. I know that the debate is also taking place in a number of other countries, but it has not led to a different conclusion from the conclusion that I have outlined to you at the moment in other countries. But I started by saying that there is still a great risk that the conflict will flare up again and become dangerous. So I share that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u122	Mr Van Helvert and then Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u123	When we look at Artsach, we see that there is a population living there and an army has invaded there. Turkey has gone to help. Turkey has invaded and sent jihad fighters, armed jihadists, to that population. There have been gross violations of human rights. Now Russia and Turkey, in the same area where Turkey has been fighting against that population, must guard the security of the population, while the jihad fighters brought by Turkey are still on the ground. And all the Minister says is, we're following it well. Does the Minister not feel that the people of Nagorno-Karabakh, including many Armenians, feel abandoned by the Netherlands, by Europe? We are opening an embassy in Armenia this year, because it is the only country in that region that has made huge strides forward in the process of democratization. Does the Minister not feel that the people of Nagorno-Karabakh, the Armenian people, feel abandoned by the Netherlands, by Europe, if we only follow this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u124	I'm just looking for the exact question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u125	Doesn't the Minister have the idea that if we just follow it, the people of Nagorno-Karabakh, including many Armenians, feel abandoned? Those people were attacked by an army of Azerbaijan, by Turkey, by jihad fighters. Doesn't the Minister have the idea that these people feel abandoned by the Netherlands, by Europe alone, that we are following it well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u126	Of course, I am incredibly sorry for the people of Nagorno-Karabakh. It's terrible what he's been through; the war now and the period before that. There have been huge flows. Some of the population has fled to Azerbaijan. Some of the population has fled to Armenia. It's horrible. The Dutch commitment is then inevitable that of the logical route of international organisations. I can also only say that the current situation is unsatisfactory. We must therefore continue to work on a better and internationally developed regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u127	There are very plausible reports of NGOs talking about human rights violations. There are very plausible reports from NGOs that talk about the use of phosphorus, about cluster munitions on civilians, about a population that needs to be wiped out because the President of Armenia has said: we will continue to fight until they are all gone. Jihadis who get paid money by a murdered Armenian. At that moment you start to think: shouldn't we keep an eye on the fact that a population in a certain part of the world, namely Nagorno-Karabakh, is not being eradicated? If you know that the same population has experienced the same eradication a hundred years ago, is it not justified under international law to prevent genocide from happening again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u128	Genocides must always be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u129	Genocides must always be prevented, the Minister says. Yeah, we signed it. But what do we do there, except just follow? The proposal that the CDA initially made was: is it not an idea to see if we can argue for a transition autonomy? In the meantime, you can say: this piece of land is going to be seen, with blue helmets for example, as a temporary independent piece of land. Then we can monitor with blue helmets, with many countries in the world, so that people fleeing back to their homes, so that people are not still killed, so that unwanted fighters leave that area. That's a hand-out you could argue for. That too is difficult. That didn't happen tomorrow either. But now we're just following.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u130	The question about the blue helmets has indeed been put by Mr Van Helvert. The sending of blue helmets requires a mandate from that other Security Council, the UN Security Council. That would indeed be a very desirable situation. As Mr Van Helvert knows, Russia is a permanent member of the Security Council and that country did not want to make that choice. But I fully agree with Mr Van Helvert that this would be a better outcome. Mr Van Helvert also asked about the humanitarian aid provided. Fortunately, it is offered through both the UN and the Red Cross. Of both, the Netherlands is a very large donor. Then there is the role of Turkey and indeed the commitment of Syrian fighters on the side of Azerbaijan. I really condemn the use of Syrian fighters in this fight. It's completely reprehensible to put mercenaries in there. Then there's the arms embargo. Formally, an arms embargo has been in force since 1992. That arms embargo was imposed by the OSCE and therefore applies to members of the OSCE. It concerns arms supplies to be used in Nagorno-Karabakh. Unfortunately, we have to observe together that a number of countries have, after all, supplied weapons that have been used there. Turkey is one of them. According to reports, Israel is also one of them. The Netherlands has already argued in the European Union for a strong reduction in the supply of arms to Turkey. That was in the wake of the invasion in Syria, but it also concerns support for troops in Libya. I am therefore prepared to call again at the next European Foreign Affairs Council for the non-delivery of arms to Turkey, because they can be used in this conflict. As you know, the Netherlands does not supply new weapons to Turkey, but it could be a new step for other countries. So I'd be happy to make that call. That brings me to the other questions that have been asked about relations with Turkey. Mr De Roon discussed this in detail and Mr Voordewind also addressed it. Mr De Roon asked whether we should not expel Turkey from NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u131	There are probably questions about the previous point. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u132	First, the arms embargo. It is good that the Minister is going to make an extra effort in Europe, but there are also countries such as Russia, Israel, Belarus, Azerbaijan and a number of other countries that completely ignore that OSCE embargo. Is the Minister prepared to address these countries and tell us what the reaction is so that we can continue to follow it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u133	Certainly, some of the countries you mention are OSCE countries. So we'll talk to them along that route. Israel, of course, is not an OSCE country, but as far as I am concerned, the message is that it is undesirable to supply arms to one of the warring parties in Nagorno-Karabakh, including Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u134	That's good. Then we would like to hear the follow-up. But of course, this war would never, ever have come to this extent if Turkey had not been armed for years, and Azerbaijan, and if Turkey had not supported and encouraged Azerbaijan. I have heard words, I have seen images; the dog eats no bread of them. I'm quoting one. Prime Minister Aliyev of Azerbaijan says we're going to chase them like dogs and drive them out like dogs. Today Mevlüt Çavuşoglu of Turkey announced that if they do something wrong, he will expel all Armenians with the Arab army. There have been a lot of human rights violations. Cluster munitions have indeed been used and those jihadists have been deployed again. The Minister is right to say that this is unacceptable. But my question is: are they going to get away with this again or is the Minister going to make an effort to get targeted sanctions against Aliev and Erdogan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u135	I was just about to discuss the relationship with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u136	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u137	As far as Azerbaijan is concerned, I indicated that, because of the very worrying reports that Mrs Karabulut is now repeating, about human rights violations, about the possible use of chemical weapons, about the possible use of cluster munitions, it is very important that the truth comes out. So my commitment is to mobilise countries through the OSCE railroad again to organise that research. And then you can take action as a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u138	In my first term, I also mentioned the double measure that is often used. I'll take Lukashenko and these two dictators Erdogan and Aliev. They're suppressing their own populations. They commit human rights violations. They're illegally deploying the military. They're engaged in illegal wars. They occupy parts here and there, depending on what. Why can't the minister just say, "Okay, maybe it won't work right away, but I'm going to make a personal effort to impose targeted sanctions. I am prepared to do so because I maintain international law, because impunity and this kind of behavior cannot be accepted, because thousands of people have been killed and thousands of people have been fleeing and because people on both sides are in grave uncertainty because of the behaviour of these men"? Will the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u139	In the right order. If you impose sanctions and you are as attached to the rule of law as Mrs Karabulut rightly argues, then you are doing so quite specifically on the basis of information that cannot be questioned. No one disputes that we have terrible images and terrible information about the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. But the well-known saying is that in a war the truth dies first. So you need to verify properly. Where the European Union is going to do so because the Netherlands will always do so at EU level or impose more comprehensive sanctions, we are indeed doing so within the rules of the rule of law, so very focused on the basis of very targeted information. For that, you have to take those steps first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u140	Can I conclude from this answer that the Minister says that he is going to work for these targeted sanctions against Aliyev and Erdogan and that he must, of course, do the preparatory work first, but that this is the commitment? Can we meet tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u141	I have indicated that I am coming to Turkey now. On Azerbaijan, I have said that it is incredibly important that this investigation should take place. If you have that investigation, you can take action against all those responsible. This may also have a form other than sanctions. It may also be that people are being tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u142	They're partners in crime. I don't want the minister to run. I see the Minister will. But why can't he just say: yes, of course we need evidence for that and so on, and that will have to be investigated, but my commitment is that we are going to impose targeted sanctions on Aliyev and Erdogan, who are responsible for this war, who have applied all kinds of illegal ways and who have also deployed jihadists from Syria, with all the terrible consequences of that? Will the Minister just promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u143	The Minister has already promised that the truth must come out. That might lead to a lawsuit. Not to sanctions, not to the freezing of bank accounts, but perhaps to a trial, perhaps here in The Hague. But to come to that conclusion, you start with that good research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u144	Finally. It's not about the investigation, it's about the stakes. Is this the Minister's commitment? Can he take over? If it does not work, then we will hear it from the Minister, but let this be the commitment given all the facts that are already on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u145	There is no difference of opinion. The commitment is that good research, which leads to a clear definition of who is guilty of crime, and that these crimes are punished. And whether that form is a sanction, a trial or a prison sentence follows from that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u146	When I hear the cheerleader, also from a jihadist angle, who has been conquered here again for Islam, I wonder to what extent the aggression stops. What counter forces, counterweights, are there now that people do not think from these actions: we can proceed on this basis? Or that even the existence of Armenia is threatened with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u147	I have already indicated that, although the ceasefire is preferable to the situation before it, it does not at all guarantee that the weapons will remain silent. I have no indications that it would go to an even blacker scenario, as Mr Van der Staaij suggests, that Armenia's survival would be threatened. Since I don't have that information, I don't think it's wise to speculate on that either. Then you are talking about a huge regional conflict, in which alliances will enter into force. Russia has a defence alliance with Armenia. Let us not lose ourselves in even more gloomy reflections, but concentrate on what is already difficult enough: realising steps forward in Nagorno-Karabakh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u148	I understand that the Minister says: let's not speculate how things can go further. On the other hand, when you see the rhetoric of war when it comes to gaining ground for Islam, we must keep our eyes open where at some point a limit is drawn. A second question I would like to ask is about cluster munitions. I saw in the answers to the written questions that the Minister indicates that there are indications, reports from both sides, that cluster munitions have been used. I checked with Human Rights Watch, but I see it only indicated by Azerbaijan. My question is: where does the Minister's information come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u149	Mr Voordewind asked the same question. I'll see if I can figure out what sources were used for that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u150	Mr Van Helvert has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u152	Do you want to use another microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u153	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. We have asked the Minister all kinds of questions about what we can do for Armenia, the only country that has taken such great steps forward when it comes to democracy. Armenia feels abandoned by Europe and by the Netherlands, who do not want to make decisions to help, because, as the Minister says, we have to wait for all kinds of investigations again. All we can see in a moment is that a lot of people have been killed. What can the Minister do? The minister says this is not possible, I'm not going to do that, we're following it well. When I hear the questions of all my fellow Members, I conclude that we are actually looking for a minister who says: we hate what is happening to Armenia, we are opening an embassy this year because we are increasingly working together with Armenia. He should say: they have done so well for the process of democracy, as the only country in that region; I go and continue to look for solutions to ensure that the violence stops there and to ensure that it is not right for Turkey to go with jihadist fighters to guard the peace there of the people they were killing a few hours ago. However, the Minister says: we wait, we examine everything and we support the Red Cross, so we do not need to do anything extra to help. I really don't think it's enough. I ask the Minister whether he would like to say here in the Chamber that he is going to make an effort to ensure that the situation improves and that it is not Russia, Turkey and the jihad fighters who will continue to guard the peace and security of the Armenian people of Nagorno-Karabakh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u154	I have indicated how we are on the path of the OSCE and the Minsk Group. In direct contact with both countries themselves, the European President, we have always engaged with France as a member of the Minsk Group on the role for the OSCE. It is not right to do that with "The Netherlands does nothing." The Netherlands does what it can, but will always have to do so in cooperation with others, with international organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u155	Then the result will be that the Armenian people have been expelled from Nagorno-Karabakh or are unable to move. It is not fair to imagine that the military of Turkey and the jihad warriors brought there by Turkey are the great guards for the safety of those people. Then we will have to find another way with a number of countries to convince Russia that blue helmets need to guard peace and that we will have a transition in autonomy there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u156	Mr Van Helvert suggests that there is a difference, but he also says that we should do it with a number of other countries. That's exactly my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u157	It is good that the Minister says that we need to involve the OSCE more, because the OSCE is, of course, completely shackled by the deal that the Russians have made with Azerbaijan and Armenia. As a result, they have increased their power in the Caucasus. The OSCE-Minsk process has been completely abandoned. The Minister says that we need to involve the OSCE more. What are his concrete proposals to do that? Isn't it an idea to propose as the Netherlands to see if we can get observers out, who are going to see if the safety of Nagorno-Karabakh is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u158	Sure, that would be a very good step. In order to do that safely, you need commitment from the parties. You have to do that through the OSCE. We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u159	I see optimism with the Minister in response to the idea. Of course you need the approval of the OSCE parties, but if the Russians have nothing to hide, I would say: why not suggest it? Is the Minister really prepared to obtain support within the OSCE to see if we can get monitors there, observers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u160	Of course. Again, you're suggesting there's a difference of opinion. There isn't. You need the agreement of the warring parties and the OSCE. The answer was half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u161	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u162	Then there's the relationship with Turkey. Mr De Roon indicated that, as far as he is concerned, Turkey should be expelled from NATO. We have often talked about the very difficult relationship with Turkey within NATO and as a large neighbour of Europe. That is a relationship in which the Netherlands very often has strong differences of opinion with Turkey, and it also expresses them openly. At the same time, there is the realization that Turkey will remain the neighbouring country of Europe, that it is located in a very strategic place, and that, in addition to the differences of opinion we have, we also have intensive cooperation with them, for example in combating terrorism, controlling migratory flows and economic cooperation. I think it would be wiser to have a critical discussion with Turkey in NATO. Mr Van Helvert pointed out that the Netherlands was the only country to have had such a critical discussion, even recently in the NATO Council. Where necessary, we will continue to feed them. In order to do so in the NATO Council, you must be both members. That means we're very critical there. The NATO Council referred to by Mr Van Helvert was indeed about the raid in Nagorno-Karabakh and the Turkish role in it. We have clearly expressed our disapproval of this. Earlier, we did that about purchasing Russian air defenses. As far as relations with the European Union are concerned, Mr De Roon asked whether the customs union could be terminated. The Customs Union is an international treaty. In order to terminate a treaty, there must be a violation of that treaty. Otherwise, you're in violation of international law. So there's no ground for that. As far as the accession negotiations are concerned, the Netherlands has already argued in Europe that, although the actual situation is that these negotiations are no longer taking place, it would be logical to formally terminate them. I have already had to report to you that there is very little support for this in the European Council. Mr Voordewind asked for sanctions. Mrs Karabulut has just gone into this in detail. There are currently sanctions against Turkey. A very clear message was sent to Turkey at the last European summit in October following Turkey's invigorating behaviour in the eastern Mediterranean and elsewhere. One is the outstretched hand: if you are prepared to return to the eastern Mediterranean and take constructive action, then the European Union is willing to strengthen its ties. That is hugely in the Turkish interest. Turkey is not just a large neighbour of the European Union. The other way around, that's even stronger. The Turkish economy is very close to the European economy. The Turkish economy is having a very, very difficult time. It would be in the great interest of the ordinary Turkish man or woman that these relations should be cited. So that outstretched hand is a must. At the same time, it is also very clearly indicated what the stick is. I believe that Mr Van Helvert called it "the pastor and the chaplain." Undoubtedly that is a Limburg expression for the root and the stick. I don't know who the stick is with the priest and the chaplain. Mrs Ploumen, of course, knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u163	They don't know that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u164	When it comes to carrots and sticks, it is clear what the stick is: if Turkish behaviour is not in the right direction, it will entail sanctions. I have also indicated to you earlier that this is not the preferred outcome for me, but that the Netherlands will certainly not be deterred from imposing sanctions in that case. That can be towards individuals, that can also be in a different way. Of course, always in such a way that you avoid ordinary Turkish men and women. But if there is reason to do so, and the clock is ticking, then the Netherlands will certainly not hesitate to do so. That will be our commitment in the European Council. Then I come to the relationship with Suriname.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u165	Not until after Mr De Roon has posted another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u166	I had also asked the Minister whether he would like to make an effort to ensure that the declaration announced by Erdogan against my group chairman will not take place. Surely it is up to a foreign minister to stand up for the politicians in the Netherlands, if they are threatened by the head of state of another country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u167	Sure. The Dutch Government, through both the Prime Minister and myself, has made it quite clear that it is unacceptable for a Dutch parliamentarians, Mr Wilders, to be put under pressure from another country, from Turkey, when he makes use of his freedom of expression. That was also transferred to the Turkish ambassador. That did not lead to the declaration being withdrawn. But the message has been conveyed loudly and clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u168	Yes, the message has been sent, but of course it cannot stop there. If no action is taken on what the Netherlands wants on this point, will there have to be a follow-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u169	Mr De Roon has made a number of suggestions that I have not gone into. I partly support these suggestions, for example the suggestion concerning the accession negotiations, and partly not, as regards the exit from NATO. There are also plenty of other sensitive issues on which we are crossing swords with Turkey. However, the Netherlands has made a very clear assessment of this declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u170	But what is the Minister going to do, given that what he said in the past has not led to a different attitude on the Turkish side? What's he gonna do about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u171	The Netherlands has no jurisdiction in Turkey, so we can send a clear signal about this, but we cannot withdraw a declaration in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u172	No, we can't, but the Minister could take further steps and build pressure, put pressure on them. If he can't do that himself, then maybe the Prime Minister should. But this is unacceptable. The signal the Minister is sending now is: well, we have said it, and for the rest Geert Wilders is now at the mercy of the heathen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u173	The fact that a government at the highest level indicates that such action is unacceptable is a deafening political signal. We do not have jurisdiction to withdraw a declaration in another country. Mr De Roon will understand that very well as a former officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u174	I could also very well imagine that the Minister is seeking support from his European colleagues in order to convince Turkey and actually bring it to fruition, by the great conviction of all those countries, that it simply should not do so, that it should just drop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u175	We have just discussed in detail the fact that we are looking with European colleagues for a firm response if the broader Turkish behaviour does not improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u176	But that does not lead to concrete action at this stage, I note. I'm sorry to hear that. Actually, the signal is: Geert Wilders has to see for himself how he gets along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u177	Mr. Chairman. The relationship with Suriname. A number of members of parliament rightly pointed out that a new light has been shining on the relationship between Suriname and the Netherlands since the arrival of the Santokhi government. That's a long historical relationship. A very large Surinamese community here, but also many in Suriname who still feel very connected with the Netherlands. I have received the Surinamese Minister Ramdin here twice. He invited me to attend the celebration of independence. I'll be happy to be there. In recent weeks there has been an extensive visit of experts from various ministries, in the fields of justice, agriculture, defence, economics, finance, to identify where Suriname's needs lie and how we can help Suriname. In addition, a very concrete online business forum has been organised by Mr Kaag, because strengthening the Surinam economy, by working together and trading with Dutch companies, is of course one of the key elements. We have announced that we hope to be able to spend the remaining treaty resources, i.e. the latest development cooperation money, in the short term. This is a basis for Suriname, which will undoubtedly need financial support from international financial organisations. It is also technical support, which we have already mapped out through the official visit and which we are happy to continue with. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about human rights and freedom of the press. Mr Sjoerdsma called journalists "front soldiers." That is a valid definition of the role they play in democracy. Often they do so literally with danger for their own lives in other countries. That is why we are funding a large number of projects involving support for journalists and the security of journalists. A further 9 million is earmarked for this in the forthcoming budget. In addition, later this year, on 19 December, the Netherlands and UNESCO will organise the World Press Freedom Conference, here in the Netherlands. This is, of course, largely virtual for the participants. In doing so, we are showing very clearly how much we find ourselves connected with the issue of free press. Ms Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik asked about the programmes of Free Press Unlimited and RNW Media. The programmes they asked for expire because programmes run according to calls for tender and according to a certain time limit. Some came from my budget and some from Mr Kaag. There will be another round of grants from the Human Rights Fund, where there will also be a substantial reservation for press freedom projects. Mr Sjoerdsma specifically asked for the commitment to the protection of journalists. We do have a fund for that. I am also open to refocusing spending on the protection of journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u178	Mr Van Ojik has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u179	Thanks to the Minister. It is in itself a clear answer. In part, we already knew about the 9 million. I think we agree that this work is more important than ever. The minister himself began to say that. The situation is that two important projects financed by the Netherlands for a long time have both not been eligible for funding. We're not going in there. That has undoubtedly been looked into. That amounts to about 70 million over five years. That's coming to a halt now. Instead, the Minister says that he is going to try to do some extras for the Human Rights Fund for one year, if I understand correctly. This threatens to jeopardise the continuity of work for the protection and support of journalists in many places in the world. The question is: can we prevent this in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u180	I cannot prevent the funding of a project, which has been granted for a certain period, from ending at the end of that period. I am very attached to the tender method used. Many organisations are also involved in several projects. So the fact that the funding of one project ends does not mean that there is no financial relationship with such an organisation. The amounts available for freedom of the press are very substantial. I already indicated what I will make extra available for this next year, but the distribution will take place through tenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u181	You could lose a tender. You can win it or lose it. In the end, this is what we're talking about. I can only speak on my own behalf, of course, but I think that is what the Minister is about. These programmes did what we consider to be so important, namely the worldwide inclusion of journalists in all kinds of places where the work of journalists is under threat, by giving them concrete support. Through the two organisations that are not currently eligible, roughly EUR 70 million has been spent on these programmes over the past five years. Those programs are now at stake. The compensation of 9 million from the Human Rights Fund is not enough; however good it is that the Minister does so. So I have the next question. I get the tender. I also understand that you can win or lose such a tender, but I am concerned about whether the Minister can guarantee that those programmes, organisations or journalists we are talking about are not being duped or abandoned by the fact that someone here is losing a tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u182	I cannot guarantee that an organization that loses a tender will still receive money. That's inherent in a system that I don't think you can oppose. The selection takes place on the basis of quality and a number of clear criteria. If you don't meet that, you don't get any money. Then it is the responsibility of the organisation, knowing that the system works this way, to do its utmost to be the best, but also to spread its risks to different projects and financiers. There is considerable money available, but there is no guarantee that every organization will receive the same amount as in the past. That wouldn't be good, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u183	Mr Van Ojik has another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u184	Yeah, sorry, Chairman. Dutch organisations have received this money in the past. I am not advocating that these organisations should get that again, because I do not want to enter into the terms of the tender. Just... I'm gonna ask the Minister something else. We are all talking about the importance of supporting journalists. My concern is that journalists from all over the world are no longer eligible for support, because these programmes are now shutting down. My question to the Minister is: should we not want that anymore? Is he prepared to look into his own budget, perhaps in consultation with his colleague, the Minister for BuHa-OS, or can he at least continue to support the programmes that we consider important for them to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u185	I would like these programmes to continue, but this is done on the basis of quality selection. I can't issue a blank cheque, so any project started can continue. Then you break with the system in which quality assessment is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u186	Mr Sjoerdsma on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u187	Mr President, on this point indeed. I get that, because I think that's complicated. At the same time, if you make 9 million available, you have to look at two things. I also hope that this money is multiannual, because it is also a bit multiannual. It's okay if the Minister can take a look at that, too. It is important that it is done by proven organisations, that it is done strategically and that it can be substantial. I believe that the Human Rights Fund has a cap of about €500,000. I think it would be a real shame if we went off targeted programs. And the Minister is also right that we are not about tenders. On the other hand, we must also avoid getting a patchwork of small projects that have no impact. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for a little strategy, long-term and tried and tested names. Then I think we'll figure it out and the rest is up to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u188	I agree that fragmentation should be avoided and that it should be long-term where possible. By the way, you can also commit in a tendersystematically long-term commitment. I agree with that, and I think that the discussion with Mr Van Ojik was more about the possibility of the money ending after a long-term commitment. I fear that the money will then have to be found in other projects, projects that the organisation itself will have to bring in. But with the way Mr Sjoerdsma describes it, I am very well off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u189	Mr Van Ojik again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u190	I also have to think about this because of what Mr Sjoerdsma said, but for the record, I am also looking for... Look, support for journalists, good support for journalists, is sometimes indispensable at the moment. That support should not disappear from that Dutch programme because a Dutch organisation has lost a tender. I'll turn it around and ask the minister to look at it from the journalist or the news channel. Then he'll have to tell us what we want to keep from that. If there are things in there that we say "that's not so good at all," then you have to stop. Please do that! That may be a pity about the money, but if things are going to die that we find very worthwhile in the context of our solidarity with journalists worldwide, look at it again. Can I ask the Minister like that? Is he prepared to look again at what in practice are the consequences of the fact that these organisations have now lost a tender?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u191	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but that doesn't mean that the organization gets the money for that. But I have already indicated to you that it is inevitable when assessing quality that the answer is sometimes no. Then it is the responsibility of that organisation, which knows very well that the system works like this, to ensure that it does not put all its eggs in one basket. She needs to tender for multiple projects and provide multiple donors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u192	I would like to ask a broader question about the government's commitment to human rights. Given the pressure on civil society, the free voice and the free media in so many countries, should there not be more capacity at embassies to assist people in a variety of practical ways? Let me give you a very practical and appealing example: the EU diplomats who physically protected one of the opposition leaders in Belarus by staying in her house for a few days. The Minister replied in writing to the question I raised, but he pointed out that I would have asked for additional financial resources, such as subsidies. But that's not what I asked. I am concerned about human power: diplomats who can be in court and diplomats who can maintain contact with the free media. So I'm mostly talking about more people. I know, of course, that these costs, but I am thinking in particular of the use of more people, not so much subsidies or tenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u193	Sure. I understand the wish very well, but it is actually completed in two steps. During the government agreement, substantial investments have been made in the expansion of the postal network. Last year, I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Koopmans have also made additional resources available for human resources, specifically for human rights. A number of amendments have been tabled this year and I will deal with them later. But in fact, your wish has already been met. You should be happy with that vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u194	Yeah, but if something was good enough last year, that doesn't mean it's good enough for next year. I don't want to take anything away from that extra bet; I think it's very good. But my concern is that that's right... Well, look at Belarus, look at Ethiopia again, look at Egypt; you know the whole list. It's gonna take a lot of work. I would like to ask the Minister to look carefully at this with a view to the year 2021, which unfortunately does not promise very well in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u195	We'll look carefully. In this way, I will also provide a response to some of the amendments on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the human rights sanctions regime, which Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Kuzu once again drew attention to. Both the German Presidency of the Union and Mr Borrell and Mrs von der Leyen have all expressed their full commitment to the human rights sanctions regime. My commitment is to be able to take a decision on it at the Foreign Affairs Council in December. I must, of course, get other countries in a wording in which we can all agree, but if we succeed, then it would be possible for me to really want it to come into force this year. Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert drew attention to the persecution of Christians, to the situation in Pakistan where Christians, but also Hindus, Bahá'is, are persecuted, and to the Dutch commitment to it. I also understood that there was an initiative paper coming up, at least on the part of the CDA. As Members of Parliament know, the Netherlands has set up a religious envoy, who, in my opinion, has also had a conversation with the Chamber and is very active. In 2019, at the request of UN rapporteur Shaheed, we organised the international conference on freedom of religion and belief. We are very active within the International Religious Freedom and Belief Alliance, where we specifically draw the project that calls attention to equal rights for women, girls and lhbti. Mr Voordewind asked whether additional resources could be made available to the UN rapporteur, Mr Shaheed, whom I mentioned earlier. I am indeed prepared to make additional resources available to support his important work. They will be available to him and a number of UN rapporteurs working in similar areas, such as violence against women and freedom of expression. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether we should not adopt a special resolution in the UN Human Rights Council, to which the Netherlands is currently a member, on combating persecution for religious belief. Now the right to freedom of faith or belief is already enshrined in the Declaration of Human Rights and in the BUPO Convention, so a general resolution would not add anything to the international law that already exists. In general, it is not wise to put the right already established to the vote again. We very much believe in using our membership of the Human Rights Council, which we have had a discussion about before, to get resolutions adopted in the Human Rights Council to stop religious persecution in specific countries. We did that, for example, when it came to Yemen. I have already mentioned the resolutions we supported around China and the additional support for the UN special rapporteur, which I have just mentioned to Mr Voordewind. Mr Voordewind also asked for support for the victims of ISIS and of slavery and trafficking in human beings established under the ISIS regime in Syria and Iraq. The Netherlands has a number of projects running in this region, including specifically targeted at the Jezidi victims, as well as members of the Ihbti community. We are focusing specifically on psychological assistance for the victims of sexual violence. And together with a number of countries, we are participating in a major project to collect evidence about the crimes of ISIS. I also remain willing to work for the needs that are there. Mr President, I come now to the end of this block on human rights. I'm going to go to another block now, to the questions about consular matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u196	Then Mr Van der Staaij is. I assume there are also some questions about human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u197	Yes, Mr. Chairman, indeed. A word about an initiative in the Human Rights Council in the fight against persecution of faith. As the Minister explained, I also meant it: not in general. I was thinking, for example, of a number of countries. Then you look at it: where do we see that certain people are persecuted for their faith? We are, of course, seeing recent developments in the Middle East and East Asia. There are also worsenings there. I meant that targeted, in a number of countries there, is being identified, on the basis of the list of Open Doors, but also of other organisations, and that a resolution is being initiated. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u198	Sure. We are. It's good that this misunderstanding is out of the way. I have already indicated: a specific resolution. In addition, countries are of course treated in turn, including the Netherlands. Where there is reason to do so, and unfortunately this is often so, the Netherlands therefore raises the issue of Christian persecution or, more broadly, persecution on the basis of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u199	Mrs Karabulut for her last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u200	I had another question about Yemen. There is a major humanitarian disaster in Yemen that has been caused by human beings. This war, which has been going on for five years, is led by Saudi Arabia and is being waged with Western and, above all, American bombs, hunger is being used as a weapon of war. The population suffers greatly as a result. There are over 100,000 dead and millions of refugees. Because of the pandemic and the fall in aid, this is very, very urgent. I would like to ask the Minister to make a more balanced assessment of his human rights policy and to take concrete steps. For example, would he like to enter into consultation with the new US President in order to adapt their arms export policy and, in particular, their arms exports to Saudi Arabia, for Yemen? Would he also like to work in all sorts of Gremia on targeted measures to tackle those responsible for war crimes because they use hunger as a weapon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u201	During its membership of the UN Security Council, the Netherlands drew up a resolution on the use of hunger as a weapon of war. It's accepted, too. Unfortunately, this does not mean that this is not still happening, for example in Yemen. Mrs Karabulut is quite right, of course. But on that basis, together with the countries which are now members of the UN Security Council, we are trying to see if we can take concrete steps against those responsible. When it comes to arms supplies to warring parties in Yemen, Mrs Karabulut knows that the Netherlands is extremely reluctant. I have previously made an appeal at EU level, and I believe that during our membership of the UN Security Council, I have called for this to be extended. Unfortunately, I did not get any support for this at the time. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that the situation in Yemen is such that it would still be wise for those countries that did not want to do so to come to terms with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u202	We talked about human rights, girls' rights, religious freedom and the Human Rights Council. If there were any suggestions, the Minister was open to them. I have drawn attention in my text to the girls in Pakistan, sometimes 11, 12 years old, who are being kidnapped, who are forced to marry and who are being forced to convert. The Minister says that in a specific case we have to wait for the appeal. Let's say there's a threat of death. At Asia Bibi, we have expressed public concern about the course of justice. We could do that now, couldn't we? A 13-year-old girl is kidnapped and raped by a 44-year-old neighbor. Would that also be a subject for which the Minister says that we would like to denounce this at the Human Rights Council or on other occasions? 'Cause this isn't just about a few people. This is a lot of underage girls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u203	Sure. I very much agree with Mr Voordewind that these are unacceptable situations. Mr Voordewind will also recall the situation surrounding Asia Bibi that I was unable to make any public statements on what the Netherlands and other countries were doing. This also applies to the specific case referred to by Mr Voordewind. The commotion in Pakistani society when something seems to happen because another country asks, does not help those we want to help. But bringing it up in the Human Rights Council: sure. And help people wherever possible through silent diplomacy: absolutely. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the consular field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u204	Mr Sjoerdsma wants to talk about human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u205	Yes. I am convinced that it is better to appeal to other countries, organisations or individuals for their human rights violations if we, as the Netherlands too, are properly accountable for our dark pages. That is why I would like to briefly address Indonesia, and specifically the regime which the Dutch Government has imposed on children of executed men. That is, in itself, a way of achieving justice for these children. Even if the compensation is often shady, it doesn't matter very much. They want to get their rights. There's a deadline in this arrangement. I'd like to ask the Minister to cancel that deadline. I do not see very well what it contributes to our reputation or the sense of justice, or what it contributes at all, that we have a deadline in this scheme that makes it impossible for some of these children to get justice. That would be my request to this minister, for our image, the image of this cabinet and the image of the Netherlands worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u206	Mr Sjoerdsma, I would remind you, refers to what is called the'reasonable period'. That is a legally broad understanding of the submission of claims, for which there is no infinity but a reasonable period of time. So nothing new is being introduced into this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u207	We can, I think, have an entire evening here to discuss how it is all legal normal and not exceptional. But I think the core is a different one. These people have been carrying traumas for a long time and may not have had a chance for decades to tell about it or to get justice. Now you can, often after torture and unlikely difficulties to go anywhere. I understand that it is possible, but I think the Minister will also see that there may not be a need for this arrangement. It's for no one's benefit, not from the state, not from the victims, not from justice. So I ask the Minister to look at it again, to see if it is really necessary and please delete it if it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u208	I would like to take another look at that, but I know that there is no other question here than in similar cases. I thought it was even discussed with the lawyer in question, but I'd like to take another look at that, because it's a very legal question. I shall have to return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u209	The Minister will return to the deadline in writing. That's what we're gonna write down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u210	It's a little more specific what's actually the advantage of maintaining that term. I can see why it's not weird. I also understand that it's normal. I don't dispute that at all. I do not want to say that the Minister is doing draconian things here or that the national attorney argues draconian things, but I would ask him to reflect on whether it is necessary to maintain that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u211	You want to know what the reason is. I understand the question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u212	I note as chairman that I have a commitment here from the Minister that he will return to whether that period is reasonable and how long that period will be. The problem is clear. The answer will then come back clearly in a letter. Then Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u213	Since the human rights block is now being closed, I should like to ask to what extent the Minister continues to defend the human rights of the Dutch girl Insiya, who is still being held by her father. In fact, the whole Chamber has said: Minister, do something about it. At the time, we are a person who was imprisoned for drugs from a very far country, but a girl who has just been kidnapped, with brutal violence, by her father and accomplices, where the mother has been right with all judges and in all legal proceedings that that is not possible and that that girl should be in the Netherlands, has still not been picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u214	Mr Van Helvert is right that this is a very invigorating matter. I spoke to Mrs Rashid myself last year. My associates do that all the time. My associates have discussed the matter several times in India. I myself have done so very recently in a conversation with the Indian minister, who was not yet aware of the court's final verdict, in which the father was convicted of violent kidnapping. I have therefore called for his attention as a matter of urgency as to whether this new judgment could at least lead to the extradition of that father. I have not yet received an answer to that, but I have made an urgent appeal for that to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u215	Thank you very much. It is nice and good to hear that you are working on this, especially for the mother of Insiya and all involved. To what extent have you in the written questions asked by many Members of Parliament... How did you receive that it was said: put all the resources in the end, if necessary? If this action by the Minister has not benefited, to what extent is the Minister prepared, for example, to travel himself at some point or to have someone travel on behalf of the Cabinet, to bring Insiya to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u216	I think this is the right order. I really spoke to the Indian minister very recently. I referred to the new verdict. He promised me he'd look into it. Let us now wait for the response. Then the consular questions. Mr Sjoerdsma pointed out the accessibility of public services to the large Dutch community abroad and the development of the digital Loket Buitenland on our site, Nederlandwereldwijd.nl. He asked whether this window could be filled with all the digital public services by the end of next year. I can confirm that. This means, in practice, that some documents still require physical contact. By the way, that is just like in the Netherlands. For example, for travel documents or a DigiD activation code, physical contact is still necessary, also simply because identification is crucial for such documents. But fortunately we are making great progress there. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked how the Dutch who live abroad and wish to participate in the upcoming Lower House elections can verify that they are properly registered as voters. They can check with the city of The Hague, which acts as a polling station for voters abroad. You can do that by e-mail or by phone. Mr Koopmans asked what lessons were learned from the large-scale repatriation, for which he also congratulated the people of the State Department. The crucial thing is that we can scale up very quickly, because suddenly you have to go from an organisation that provides further good services, but at a much lower level, to an organisation in crisis mode. Again, admirable work has been done for that. Because it was such a big operation, I also asked for an external evaluation, because I share Mr Koopman's question and can only give a partial answer to it now. Also next year, the Chamber will have another State of the Consular. We'll take that evaluation into account. In any case, I found it very special that an important part of the cooperation between government and industry was. That was really different than in many other countries. The deployment of, for example, private alarm stations and a lot of their people was incredibly valuable in order to successfully complete that operation. Mr. Chairman. A number of amendments have then been tabled. Mr Sjoerdsma wants to commit 2 million to a fund for journalists in need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u217	Can you add the numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u218	That is the amendment to item No. 16. That amendment has proper coverage. It is in line with a subject which I too attach great importance to, so I would like to leave it to the House to decide. Then there is the amendment to item No. 18, also by Mr Sjoerdsma. This will release 0.5 million to support Suriname in strengthening the rule of law in order to meet the European criteria for visa liberalisation. I would also like to leave that to the judgement of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 19 by Mr Van Helvert is also focused on Suriname, specifically on economic development. That too is entirely in line with the commitment I would like to make on this issue, so I would like to leave it to the House to decide. Then there is the amendment to item No. 20, by Mr Koopmans, who is releasing resources to cope with the deployment of new technology for arms control. Yesterday we had an expert meeting on this subject, which gave us good insights. Last Friday I took part in a conference organised by Germany on this subject. In short, this too is in line with the government's commitment, so I shall leave this amendment to the Court's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u219	I see Mr Koopmans has a question. And you mistakenly spoke about Mr Van Helvert's motion number 19, but that is the amendment to item 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u220	Just a word to be honest with my coalition colleagues. The Minister is so kind to mention my name, but my amendment also includes the names of the spokesmen of D66, CDA and Christian Union. The same applies to the amendments tabled by those honourable Members. I'm just saying that for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u221	It is good practice here that when there are more than three names underneath, only the first name is mentioned. That's what the Minister did. But I take note of the good cooperation in the coalition on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u222	That is the case with the last amendment, the amendment on item No. 21, by Mr Koopmans and others to focus on strengthening the strategic autonomy of the Netherlands and Europe. I would also like to leave that to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u223	I would like to explain that. Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks said that during the previous budget debate he noticed that the coalition was not united enough. So we just made sure that there's four of us underneath everything. So that was actually the underlying idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u224	Mr President, you are not paying attention. Then why don't I just take the floor? Indeed, I would like to support Mr Van Helvert and say that I never thought that in the last year of this coalition I would have so much influence on their mutual cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u225	Minister, you don't have to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u226	No, I'm at the end of my first term dust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u227	Mrs. Karabulut, is there another unanswered question? Two unanswered questions? Well, then, you're asking them both now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u228	These questions were also not answered in the written reply. That's why I thought I'd wait until the minister's done. The first question is about the blood count in Gaza in 2018. Those responsible have still not been punished, as the Minister knows. I would have asked: is the Minister prepared to make efforts to achieve this if this does not happen soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u229	I think that answer was in the written answer on the budget. I will look it up for the second term, but I did indeed ask in a conversation with the new Israeli Minister Ashkenazi what was the state of persecution. I also got an answer to that. I shall therefore come back to that in the second term. I thought this was shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u230	I recognize that, indeed, it was in the answer to the actual questions relating to the budget. Only, my question is a slightly different one, because it doesn't come from it. And it's been a while now. Can the Minister promise that if it doesn't happen soon, he will at least make an effort to get to that prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u231	I don't have the figures in front of me right now, but they deal with a number of prosecutions that are taking place. It's not like there's no prosecution at all. It's on-going business. I don't know by heart what the state of it is. And the fact that I have asked for it and you can provide the figures shows that I have indeed paid attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u232	Perhaps the Minister could look again at my question and his answer and indeed come back to it in the second term. Then I'll go to another very important question. We often talk about freedom of the press here. That is extremely important, because journalists are not criminals. Now there's a journalist in prison in the United Kingdom for revealing war crimes. That's Julian Assange. Amnesty International is afraid of his extradition to the United States, because he is not only facing a life sentence there but perhaps even torture. I'd like to ask the Minister to stand up for this journalist. Does he at least share Amnesty International's concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u233	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut has asked me this question a great many times and every time my answer is that Mr Assange in the United Kingdom can refer his case to the courts in a democratic constitutional state. He has done the same and it is up to the judge to decide whether Mr Assange can be extradited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u234	Last question from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u235	I am not asking for a judicial judgment or a ruling on what the judge should judge. The Minister knows that even in our country democracy is under pressure in a variety of ways, including as regards journalists. And this is someone who has done so much journalistic valuable work and is now locked up for it under terrible circumstances. All I ask of the Minister is: does he share Amnesty International's concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u236	The case is under the judge. He's judging if the extradition request is correct. It can also assess whether Mr Assange would be held prisoner under inhumane conditions. The United Kingdom is a well-functioning democratic rule of law. Then it's up to the judge to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u237	I see Mrs Karabulut has another question. That is what the second deadline will be for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u238	Again, the Minister answers a question I have not asked. I'm just asking him if he shares the concerns. Can he stand up for this journalist, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u239	I have heard an answer that you do not like. I can see that. I'm afraid that's what's happening. I will continue with the second term of the Chamber. Mr De Roon has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u240	The Minister has not yet addressed that other threat against Geert Wilders from the Islamic world, namely the fatwa of the Pakistani imam Rizvi, which calls for the murder of Geert Wilders. That imam has also strengthened this by putting all kinds of videos on the internet in which he says in so many words that that is the intention. I asked the Minister in the first term if he could do anything about the fact that nothing will happen to that report in Pakistan. The Minister replied in writing that he addressed his Pakistani counterpart on 3 June 2020. We are now six months away and I have to conclude that this has not worked and that nothing has happened in Pakistan with that declaration. Then here again is the question I put to the Minister: are you going to put more pressure on Pakistan and will you perhaps involve the Prime Minister? I think it's time now. That threat is a very serious matter. You really have to show that you stand for a Dutch politician who is confronted with this simply because he is exercising freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u241	Mr De Roon rightly points out that we have taken action against the Pakistani authorities, not with the desired result until now. We will continue to put pressure on Pakistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u242	What's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u243	This means that we will continue to send the message to Pakistan at all levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u244	Can I also count on the Prime Minister to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u245	That does not seem obvious to me, because it is more logical on the road of the Public Prosecutor and myself. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u246	But if that doesn't lead to something, we're gonna have to take a step. I ask the Minister to at least discuss with the Prime Minister that is being asked from the Chamber to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u247	I think it is logical that it lies in the division into a cabinet and in a rule of law on the way of the Public Prosecutor's Office and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u248	I just heard "all possible levels," but okay. This puts an end to the first term of the Chamber. I'm getting a signal from the coalition that five minutes will be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u249	The next item is the second deadline for the Foreign Affairs budget for 2021. The first speaker is Mr De Roon of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was very disappointed by the Minister's attitude to my questions about the threats that Geert Wilders met from the Islamic world. In fact, it is as if I was listening to an office clerk who said in one case that he had no jurisdiction and in the other case that he will say what is not right, but that he will at least not scale up. While the Minister said he would do that at all levels, he backed off when I asked him if he would ask the Prime Minister to do the same. Then he said he wasn't gonna do that. To be honest, I find that very disappointing. I also think it is below the level of what you can expect from a minister when it comes to defending and protecting a parliamentarians from serious threats by foreign powerful figures, just because you exercise freedom of expression. I'm sorry about that. I would therefore ask the Minister to reconsider this and to come forward with a written response within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u251	Quite rightly, Mr De Roon is angry about this. Erdogan already takes his own country to the edge of a rogue state, or over it, but he stays away from our democracy. Speaking of the chairman of the PVV Group, I would like to ask a question about this. Mr De Roon has talked a lot about him. We initially asked a question about the chairman of the PVV group. At that time, Mr De Roon had not yet had a chance to discuss it with his group chairman. The question was about his visit to Russia. Mr De Roon was very keen to build a good relationship with Russia. I asked what was discussed in Russia with the chairman of the PVV group, because the PVV no longer says anything negative about Russia. They'd do anything right. Then Mr De Roon said that he had not yet been able to discuss this with the group chairman. Now that he has also spoken so extensively about his group chairman in his own term on behalf of the PVV, I assume that Mr De Roon can now tell us what the deal Mr Wilders made there has been. We know he doesn't say anything negative, but only positive things about Russia. What did the PVV get in return?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u252	Not only Mr Van Helvert but also others in the Chamber were always looking for a deal that Mr Wilders would have made in Moscow. There is no question of that at all. Mr Wilders did not go there with the intention of making a deal. He hasn't spoken to government officials, as far as I know. He went there at the invitation of the Duma and went there to speak with parliamentarians. Wilders' intention was to show that there is not only a negative attitude from the Netherlands towards Russia, but that there is also a willingness to talk and talk about things that may be difficult, but with which we may be able to move forward. That's what happened, to my knowledge, and nothing else. No deal was made. Nor is there any intention of making a deal. The suggestion from Mr Van Helvert's question is that what happened in Moscow led to complete radio silence by the PVV on what Russia is doing. That is a suggestion I must throw far from me. We have, of course, seriously condemned these murders with poison. As regards MH17, we have also simply said that Russia should come with water for the doctor, because it is a very bad thing that happened there. There is Russia with its fingers in it, and that needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u253	The latter is nice to hear, but when it comes to actions, the PVV never gives at home. She only takes the Chamber and the Cabinet the measure that it's all wrong what they do. But if you ask what the PVV would do against Russia to get them in line, then nothing will happen. I would like to say, however, that the PVV, both Mr De Roon himself and Mr Wilders, as group chairman, always likes to take the right measure in the cabinet, and that is their duty to discuss what is being achieved in negotiations abroad. Now we see that the PVV goes to Russia, comes back and actually only says positive things about Russia. At least she's never in favour of doing anything against Russia. For a well-negotiating party, something must have come back for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u254	Both Mr Van Helvert's claims are simply not correct. I'm really throwing that far from me. It's no good, and it's not right. I can't do anything with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u255	Mr De Roon continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u256	I hope that in a week's time we will see a somewhat more flamboyant foreign minister, who is going to be a knight to a parliamentarians who is seriously threatened by foreign rulers. Mr. Chairman. Then the rest of my speech. Many Dutch people are concerned about their freedom and security. The Islamic attacks and threats of recent weeks tell us exactly why. Islam is a conquest ideology that tries to break down our free and open Western society, stone by stone. Just look at the brutal murder of the French teacher Paty, teachers in the Netherlands who cannot practice their profession as they wish, and the countless death threats to my mentioned group leader. In short, we particularly see freedom of expression under attack. Mr. Chairman. Where the Netherlands is in charge, everything must be said, written and signed, including Muhammad and Islam. I believe that the Foreign Minister should also promote this abroad, not as an office clerk. Therefore, the PVV wants the Minister to frame and hang a Muhammad cartoon in large format at each embassy, preferably in the lobby or the central hall, so that every visitor sees that we do not dedicate anything to freedom of expression. Nothing. If a rainbow flag on embassies can, as a sign of freedom, so can a Mohammed cartoon, is my point of view. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that human rights policy is an integral part of foreign policy;]] [[whereas the Netherlands must proclaim that Islam criticism falls within the scope of freedom of expression and that an intolerant attitude on this issue is unacceptable;]] [[asks the government to hang a Mohammed cartoon at all Dutch embassies and consulates in a place that is visible to all visitors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u257	Mrs Karabulut has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u258	I was just curious about the following. Suppose the Minister would like to go along with that proposal of yours, but that there are embassies that refuse, may that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u259	Embassies are under the authority of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. If he says "you have to hang this up," they have to hang it up. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u260	I'm surprised. You are advocating freedom here, but you are now demanding people to hang things, when they may not feel like it at all or not see the point at all. It's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u261	If they don't have the authority of the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u262	Mrs. Karabulut, finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u263	All I'm saying is, it's a little out of control. It tends a little towards the same authoritarian behavior that you say you want to get rid of. I fully agree with Mr De Roon that freedom of expression, mockery and journalistic freedom must be a priority and that we must defend it. The other side of the story is that people can also have the freedom not to like it, not to like it and not to want to hang it. Are you in favour of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u264	Of course, that's just bullshit. If people are officials of the foreign service of our country and stand for it, they must also stand for our rule of law. If the Minister says: you must stand before our rule of law and show it by hanging up this cartoon, then you have to do so. If you don't want to, you need to find another job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u265	Mr De Roon continued his speech. We're really trying it in two, Mrs. Karabulut, unless someone totally avoids the answer. That is not the case here. Mr De Roon continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u266	Then I come to the next point. I had asked in the first term to investigate whether China could be held liable for consequential damage to the corona pandemic in our country. That question was understood in the written answer as if I had asked for China to be held liable for that damage already. But I didn't ask. I want an investigation to see if such a liability can be feasible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that China misled the world with disinformation and censorship at the start of the corona pandemic;]] [[noting that China is preventing a transparent and independent investigation into the origin of the coronavirus;]] [[whereas Chinese policy has caused enormous damage to our economy and health care;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether China can be held legally liable for the consequential damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u267	The Minister does not want to lift the export ban on military equipment to Taiwan. It is incomprehensible that the Netherlands does not want to help such a democracy, which is threatened by a large neighbour, to be able to defend itself. In order to justify the enforcement of the export ban, the Minister refers to a joint communiqué signed by the Netherlands with China following the submarine crisis. Such a communiqué is, of course, not a treaty in the international sense. It is a document that must be seen in the spirit of the time when it was created. That communiqué dates back to 1984. So that's half a lifetime ago. The situation in the world has changed since then. Taiwan has also changed. It is a decent democracy and street of law, with a strong economy, in which human rights are well maintained and promoted, unlike that great neighbor I meant, which threatens Taiwan and increasingly threatens it. I note that in the intervening years France has been able to deliver frigate hulls and 60 mirages to Taiwan. Germany has delivered mine hunters and the US has much more military equipment. A 36-year-old agreement with a communist country prevents us now from supplying arms to a democracy threatened by that same communist state. That situation must end. Does the Minister now choose Communists or Democrats? The Netherlands must no longer be as cowardly as in 1984, but stand up for a country that is close to us in terms of democracy, legal culture and development and with which we have many economic ties. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that NATO wants to step up its military cooperation with democracies worldwide;]] [[Whereas the largest NATO Member State is increasing exports of military goods to Taiwan;]] [[calls on the Government to lift the embargo on arms exports to Taiwan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u268	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, President Trump's success with the historic Abraham accords was particularly lukewarm. That's not right, I think. The fact that these peace agreements would come about was hardly expected by anyone. Still, Trump realized that. He has achieved more than anyone could have imagined, and that deserves support. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses support for the historic Abraham agreements negotiated under the leadership of US President Trump in the interests of peace in the Middle East,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u269	Mr. Chairman. More and more countries are moving their embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. There is no reason for the Netherlands not to do the same. Also our embassy must of course return to the capital of the Jewish state. I advocate that here every year with a motion. I would like to continue this tradition again this time, with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to move the Dutch embassy of Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, the capital of Israel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u270	Mr. Chairman. Since the establishment of the International Criminal Court, its credibility and effectiveness have been questioned. The Minister acknowledges that the report of independent experts now shows that there are many abuses in the court. That report makes no less than 348 recommendations to improve matters. The Minister wants to wait for that trial. The PVV doesn't see anything like that. That court has been around for eighteen years. The repair would be imaginable in the case of a limited number of problems, but this is a tsunami of problems and a leadership that has consistently looked away from abuses that occurred there. In short, the leadership there has fundamentally failed. The chief prosecutor, Mrs Bensouda, herself said in an interview with Al Arabiya that her religion plays a role in her task and specifically provides her with a "sense of justice." In short, Sharia is her guiding principle. I do not think it is desirable that the chief prosecutor at an international criminal court should be guided by an Islamic sense of justice, namely Sharia. That's why I have the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that: first, the effectiveness and credibility of the International Criminal Court have been questioned since its inception; Second, the Chief Prosecutor of the Criminal Court, Fatou Bensouda, has declared that she is guided by Islam; Third, the Review of the International Criminal Court and the Rome Statute system shows that the Criminal Court is full of corruption and sexual abuse; calls on the Government to terminate the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and to ensure that the International Criminal Court disappears from the Netherlands, and goes to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u271	Mr. Chairman. I know that Mrs Bensouda, the Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, is under attack. She is constantly attacked by the President of the United States and other high-ranking figures. There's not a shred of evidence. What this woman has done or is doing with her team, along with many others, is investigating war crimes, no matter who committed them. That's why the attack is being waged on her. That's what Mr. De Roon is doing here. This is a dangerous trend, not only because it is personal attacks, but also because it undermines international law and justice. It opens the way to total war. Now I know that you like to clash, that you like to riot, that you like to use big words, that you like to put away groups and people, but I would ask you not to table this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u272	I've already filed for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u273	To take her back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u274	I certainly won't take that back. Apart from all that, I only hear a lot of very big words from Mrs Karabulut at the moment. She has the right to do so. That freedom certainly applies to her, too. But she shouldn't take me by any means at that point. She is herself the one who takes the measure not only of me, but also of all the others here with big words. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u275	A follow-up question from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u276	It's about the facts. The chief prosecutor works according to international laws and regulations that we have established with each other, so that the world can combat some impunity, so that the powerful on earth cannot get away with everything. Then I think it's just low that you come here with these kinds of accusations. I am doing this because I still have some belief that you stand for international laws and rules that we have all established, that a war criminal may be prosecuted, that the killing of innocent people may be dealt with, regardless of their background, regardless of the country. So would you consider this one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u277	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u278	Of course, I fully agree with the need to prosecute perpetrators of serious crimes. There's no doubt about that. But I believe that this should be done mainly by the countries where these facts have taken place. This court was set up to make something possible where it doesn't. I note that this court, which has been in existence for eighteen years, has hardly done anything on this point. In those eighteen years, only a few sentencing sentences have been issued. That in itself is already a failure. The question is whether we can still reconstruct the court in such a way that it becomes a more efficient, b more effective and c that there is no more mess in that court, as has been done so far and determined by international experts. I don't see that. I just don't see that. We need to get rid of that court. Maybe something else should replace it, but this court has failed. I don't see any way to fix that. I'm gonna say it's gotta go. It must not go away for the reasons which Mrs Karabulut has put forward and which she is wrongly putting me on the spot, but because it is a project that, in my view, has no chance of success anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u279	No, I'm gonna stick with this. Perhaps this motion could be put to the vote. But to be able to vote on this motion... Mrs Karabulut was so quick at the microphone, that I could not count five MPs, who support the filing of the motion. So, Mr. De Roon, I'm gonna see if this motion is sufficiently supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u280	Mr. President, if I may. We have in this house...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u281	The president asked for formal support. I see one, two right now... the motion is not sufficiently supported. This means that it is not part of the debate. It is not a problem in itself if you ask questions to the speaker on this subject, but I do not see any colleagues supporting the submission. The subject is therefore on the agenda. Mr Koopmans has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u282	I find this very difficult. We have the special rule in this house that you need so much support to file and discuss a motion. As a reflex, we all do it, regardless of the content. By way of exception, I fully agree with what Mrs Karabulut said. Mr De Roon is tabling a motion in which Mrs Bensouda is dismissed as the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, just because she would have an Islamic conviction, because she is a Muslim. Look, that can't be. The International Criminal Court stands up for victims of the worst war crimes. Mrs Bensouda set up her career to help these people and to fight war crimes, genocide, torture, the most horrible things. I respect Mr De Roon's opinion when he says that court is not doing well; I disagree and I disagree with Mrs Bensouda. But putting someone away, just because of her faith? It can't be. Then a reflex isn't enough. I can't support the submission with a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u283	Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether Mr Koopmans has listened carefully to the reasoning I mentioned, so I would like to repeat it. It is about the fact that Mrs Bensouda herself said that she is being guided by Islam in her work, and in particular her sense of justice. That can mean nothing more than Sharia being her guide. That's why I wouldn't want someone like that in charge of prosecuting these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u284	We will continue this argument. This motion is therefore not part of the deliberations. The considerations you just gave are not in the motion. You mentioned it in the explanatory statement, but not in the motion itself. I'll just give you a moment to consider it. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert for a question. The question is not about the motion, but about the subject raised by Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u285	I have a point of order. You just said that I do not see any colleagues supporting the submission. I do support filing the motion, because I find...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u286	I said I don't see five colleagues. I've seen three. I haven't seen five.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u287	I do think that we can table motions in this House, even though there may be horrible texts in it. I also disagree with the content of the motion. In fact, I find the motion rather scandalous in the direction of a person who cannot defend himself here and who is a judge. The personal assault of a judge who can't defend himself here is very bad. I therefore think it is a bad motion, but I do think that we should be able to table the motion in this democracy. I think so, no matter how bad the motion is. That is why I support the submission, but I think the content of the motion is very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u288	Then you didn't stick to what I just told you. This motion is not in the debate at the moment. The subject is here and if anyone has a question on the subject, he can now ask Mr De Roon. I am sure he knows other ways of getting support from five Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u289	I understand your point, Mr President, but I would like to say to the Acts why my group did not support the tabling of this motion. I also think that Mr De Roon is entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u290	Then you can do that in 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u291	I will do it briefly, but it is important to do it carefully, because this is not common. It hardly ever happens that my group does not support the tabling of a motion, because we believe, in principle, that it is not about the content of a motion but about our support for a colleague. However, this motion, which Mr De Roon is now trying to present, takes the most important person of the Criminal Court the measure based on her faith. You cannot agree with the Criminal Court, Mr De Roon, and you cannot agree with the way she does her work and you can also see reasons for lifting the Criminal Court. I would have supported all that, but you can't do this because of her faith. Then I must say, Mr De Roon, that my group cannot therefore support the tabling of this motion, and certainly not the vote. You cannot take the motion back now, but I would like to ask you to take back the whole idea you have just expressed. Take those words back. That's better for everyone. That is better for the reputation of the Chamber, for the prestige of your party and for the prestige of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u292	Mr. Chairman. I am not going to do that, because Mrs Bensouda has said: I am being guided by Islam and my sense of justice, my sense of justice, I am being guided by what Islam has to offer me. So that is up to Sharia and that means that it agrees that people should not be treated equally and that all kinds of distinctions should be made. I'm not in favour of that, and that's why I'm saying you shouldn't have someone like that in a post like this. I would also like to say before the Acts that Mrs Bensouda is not a judge. She's a prosecutor at the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u293	One comment from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u294	It almost never happens in this house that we do not allow a colleague to table a motion. The use of the motion and the condemnation of a person do not have my support at all, but I do think that we should give our colleagues the right to submit something. Then we can vote on it as a Chamber. So I would support the submission, but I would not support the motion. And so I am ahead of the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u295	That remark is noted. I shall conclude with this point. Do you have any other topics, Mr. De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u296	I'm done with my input, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u297	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I call Mr Koopmans of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not think we have recalled it today, but something happened here in The Hague last night, apart from the budget debate. An embassy has been shot. I don't know what's behind it, and I'm not claiming to know it either. I'm not interested in the Embassy country either, because I'm interested in the fact that an embassy has been shot at. Embassies are the representations of countries with whom we have relations. That's where diplomats work and other employees work, and they were shot at here today. I would therefore like to express my sympathy, not only for all the people of that embassy, but for all the people of all the embassies: the embassies here in the Netherlands, but also Dutch embassies abroad. This is not possible. You have to be inviolable, and that is not just something legal, which is obviously also very factually necessary. It's a shame it happened, and it's a good thing the police are after it hard. These things cannot happen in this country and I would like to express my sympathy to all those who have been affected by this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget. I started my speech yesterday by emphasising how important foreign affairs are for the Netherlands and for Dutch people, because of the threats that come from abroad: wars, refugee flows and terrorism. But also because of the importance of abroad for our jobs, for our prosperity. It is also very important for all Dutch people who earn their living abroad in the Netherlands. But I also said this, because abroad is extremely important because of all those Dutch people who live and work there. A lot of Dutch people live there and a lot of Dutch people work abroad. A lot of people go on vacation, if the corona situation would allow it. A lot of people also have lovers abroad. There are a lot of Dutch people who have loved ones abroad, which they can't see right now. All this means that overseas is extremely important to us. That is why we must have a very serious, very strong foreign policy. That is why this debate is so important. What does the VVD say about foreign policy? It must be about the Dutch interest. What is the Dutch interest? I am very pleased to say this with thanks to my fellow Members, who often disagree with me, that we can still have a debate on what it means, that national interest. Okay, Mr. Van Ojik doesn't see it like I do, but we can talk about that very well. At least the VVD is clear. We say safety is paramount. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention what we have achieved in this debate in this area. Together with my coalition colleagues, we have tabled an amendment, which we have just discussed, on strategic autonomy. We must ensure our safety, so that we as the Netherlands do not depend on our opponents for the things that are essential for our safety. We also adopted an amendment on technology, arms control. We need to strengthen diplomacy in this area. The first is about 4 million, the second is about 2 million. Those are important things for safety. For security, too, the amendment that we are putting in place here as a coalition on strengthening cooperation with Suriname and strengthening the security sector is important. The second priority for the VVD in foreign policy, the national interest, is that the Netherlands remains the Netherlands. That also means standing up for the values we all stand for. That is why I am pleased that we have tabled amendments with coalition colleagues for 2 million more for diplomacy in the area of freedom of conscience and freedom of the press, and another amendment on combating war crimes in Syria and in other areas of conflict. Finally, Mr President. We believe that economics, jobs and prosperity are a priority. The amendment on strategic autonomy is also about protecting our jobs, so that our entrepreneurs are not squeezed away by opponents in areas that are essential for our economy, for our security. The collaboration with Suriname, which we can eventually strengthen with 4 million here, is also about the jobs, the prosperity of Dutch people. Because of all these reasons, I'm not filing any more stuff now. I'm just gonna name what we've done. I'll mention our fourth priority. Those are the Dutch abroad. We must stand up for that. That is what foreign policy must be about. I am very grateful to the Minister for saying that we will continue to work on strengthening the consular service. I would once again like to thank the Minister and his staff for the great work they have done in repatriating so many Dutch people who were detained abroad. I know there's still work to be done there. I wish everyone a great deal of strength and support. I say this also in the direction of all those Dutch people who are still abroad or who want to go there very much because there are lovers there, but cannot come there. I'd like to say that. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u299	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. The next speaker in the Chamber will then be Mr Van Ojik of the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister. I've got three minutes, so I'm gonna start with two motions. The first is about democracy and the power of diplomacy, as recently demonstrated in Belarus, when the diplomats literally moved around Mrs Aleksievich. Then you see what you can do with diplomacy. I would like to call on the Minister to do even more on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas democracy and human rights are under pressure worldwide;]] [[Considering that a recent report by Freedom House shows that democracy has further deteriorated in as many as 80 countries since the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas people who work for democracy and human rights throughout the world deserve our support;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands can contribute to this by providing protection to human rights defenders and threatened journalists by strengthening independent justice and science, facilitating evidence banks for human rights violations and sending experts early in a democratic revolution;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen its capacity in the Ministry and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u301	That's just as good. Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns the geopolitical issue, the energy supply. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission developed a European strategy for energy security in 2014;]] [[Whereas significant gas diversification, reduction of Russia's energy dependence and coordination of both national and external energy policies have not progressed sufficiently;]] [[considers that it is important to renew this strategy also in view of the progressive understanding of the geopolitical implications of energy policy;]] [[calls on the government within the EU to promote a new European energy security strategy with strong targets for gas diversification, reduction of Russia's energy dependence and coordination of national and external energy policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u302	Mr. Chairman. I noticed that diplomacy and foreign policy sometimes require stamina when I went back to the first debate on the Foreign Affairs budget that I was allowed to take part in. That was in 1993, 27 years ago. What was the big topic there? The global shift, the shift of power of the United States, which would no longer be aimed at Europe, but much more at Asia. A parliamentary delegation from this Parliament went to the United States. She came back shocked. "The cool attitude of the US shockes MPs," headlined the Volkskrant. "Very unfortunate and very damaging," the then CDA Chamber member Van Houwelingen called the changed American attitude. Frans Weisglas turned out to have left the American capital deeply disappointed, because of the global shift, which we are still talking about today. This means that diplomatic mills are slowly grinding foreign policy and that we will have to have a lot of patience, but also that we will eventually come to a foreign policy that is effective and that brings peace and security closer to the world. I'm sure of it. I wish the Minister every success in the minimum six months that he is still responsible for this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u303	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik, who made his first budget 27 years ago and probably his last one now. You hardly get applause for that, Mr Van Ojik, but you did make a big contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u304	Mr Van Helvert of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the short speaking time, I shall go straight to the motions, starting with the motion for a resolution on human rights violations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has a constitutional role to play in promoting the international legal order;]] [[Considering that in many places in the world perpetrators of gross human rights violations are at risk of being released due to lack of evidence;]] [[calls on the government to step up its efforts to combat impunity, in the area of strengthening UN investigation and evidence collection mechanisms in, among others, Syria, Yemen, Libya and Myanmar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind, Mr Koopmans and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u306	Then the motion observers Nagorno-Karabakh. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are no independent observers to monitor the stock established by Russia's mediation between Armenia and Azerbaijan, but only Russians in the area and Turkish observers outside;]] [[Whereas independent observers can play an important role in protecting the civilian population;]] [[calls on the government, together with other Member States of the European Union, to ensure that independent observers are sent to Nagorno-Karabakh, either by the EU, or by the OSCE, or by the UN,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind, Mr Koopmans and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u307	The motion for humanitarian aid Nagorno-Karabakh. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many Armenians have been expelled from Nagorno-Karabakh and their homes are in ruins;]] [[Notes that many hospitals and other basic facilities in Nagorno-Karabakh have been destroyed by the war violence of Azerbaijan, Turkey and Syrian rebels;]] [[whereas this year the Netherlands officially opens the embassy in Jerevan, enters winter and there is an urgent need for humanitarian aid for both the civilian population in Nagorno-Karabakh and the many refugees from Nagorno-Karabakh;]] [[calls on the Government to provide immediate humanitarian assistance to the victims of Nagorno-Karabakh in support of the victims' primary needs, such as food, shelter and medical assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u308	Finally, the motion of personal sanctions Aliyev. I have tabled that motion once before, after a general discussion. It did not make it then, but in view of today's debate, it is very wise to re-table it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Azerbaijan and the Syrian jihadists sent by Turkey have committed large-scale war crimes in Nagorno-Karabakh over the past five weeks;]] [[noting that Genocide Watch has warned that a genocide is lurking;]] [[calls on the Government to promote personal sanctions in the European Union against Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev, his family members, key figures in the Azerbaijani offensive and the Syrian fighters deployed by Turkey in Nagorno-Karabakh,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u310	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now turn to Mrs Karabulut, who will also be making a budget for the last time as a Member of Parliament. But like Mr. Van Ojik, there's always a chance to just come back in ten years, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u311	Maybe four years from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u312	And maybe two years from now, because you never know how long it's gonna be with elections. Feel welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make a number of proposals to make Dutch human rights policy abroad a little less hypocritical, making the world a little bit more beautiful and better. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that starvation has been used as a weapon of war in Yemen for years, including by the coalition led by Saudi Arabia;]] [[considers that this practice should be punished;]] [[calls on the government to take an initiative with similar countries to identify options for possible measures against those responsible for using hunger as a weapon,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the violence between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the Nagorno-Karabakh enclave had flared up again and in all intensity in recent months;]] [[Considering that the latter round of violence was initiated by Azerbaijan, encouraged to do so by Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to press for personal sanctions against those responsible for this violence in both Azerbaijan and Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey is involved in all kinds of wars in the region, regularly as an aggressor, which runs counter to the values which NATO claims to represent;]] [[expresses the view that there should be no place for Turkey in NATO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in January the International Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons entered into force;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is already party to other conventions prohibiting the use of weapons of mass destruction, such as biological and chemical weapons;]] [[believes that the ban on nuclear weapons can also contribute to a safer world;]] [[calls on the Government to look for ways in which the Netherlands can comply with this Convention, and to inform the Court thereof before the Convention enters into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-35]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u314	Mr. Chairman. It shows contempt on the part of the Minister that he is simply refusing to answer a very legitimate question from me, namely that we are going through with nuclear weapons and that it has recently been confirmed by the Minister of Defence that it is in breach of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The Minister just doesn't answer that. It can't be. I also said it in the little debate with the Minister: we are not a banana republic, are we? Surely we, as democratic representatives, should be able to control our government? That government itself sends letters and then, when we ask questions about them, says that it is contrary to an important treaty: no, I am not saying anything. I will ask questions about this again. It would be a good thing for the Minister to deal with this in his second term, if he respected the representatives of the people and the Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Government has granted an arms export licence to a Dutch company to place radar and C3 systems including software, tools, testing and measuring equipment and other related services on a ship of the Egyptian Navy;]] [[noting that Egypt is militaryly involved in various armed conflicts in the Middle East;]] [[Considering that the Egyptian Government continues to pursue a repressive policy against independent journalists and political opponents;]] [[calls on the Government to stop granting arms export licences for Egypt until further notice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u315	Mr. Chairman. Finally, in his second term, I would like to hear the Minister about targeted actions to counter the impunity of those who actually killed more than 200 people in Gaza, including many young people. For that, hardly any punishment has been imposed by those responsible. Does he want to go into that, as previously promised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u316	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut, for your many contributions to the Foreign Affairs budget. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u317	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers in the first term. I would like to return to my own first term, in which I said that we suffer from amerikanitus, to the tendency to look over our shoulder all the time what the big brother the United States is doing: are we still covered and are we not too far ahead of the troops? I spoke about the need not only to restore that transatlantic bond, but also about the need to ensure that the European Union can stand on its own feet. Too often, many politicians and many European countries have printed on snooze. It was hoped that it would all blow over, but we as Europe itself will have to become the great power if we are to avoid becoming the playing field of other great powers. We're gonna have to be a player if we're gonna keep us from being driven apart. In other words, we will have to learn to stand on our own feet. That is why the next motion, on a European Security Council. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the AIV advises the government to commit itself to the advent of a European Security Council because the EU is not in a position to quickly direct security issues;]] [[Notes that with the departure of the UK from the European Union, one of the largest armed forces and a nuclear force from the Union is disappearing;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to establish a European Security Council and to endeavour to involve the British and to inform the Chamber periodically of the progress of these efforts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u318	I have a question about this motion, Mr President. What image does Mr. Sjoerdsma have at such a security council? 'Cause he's asking for a response, but I haven't heard what kind of security council he really wants. What I have seen in the documents, but perhaps he wants to see otherwise, is a security council in which the Netherlands is not in, but which, I suppose, would have powers, for example, to allow arms exports or not, to send people somewhere or not, or to decide not to give military support to something or rather. But it's a security council that the Netherlands isn't in. What does that mean? What does that mean for our sovereignty and security? And how democratic is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u319	I think it is important to be precise here and also to refer to the opinion of the AIV. I would like to refer this to Mr Koopmans, also because there appeared to be some confusion with the Minister about the AIV's proposal and now with Mr Koopmans. The AIV proposes that a European Security Council be set up as an informal consultative body, working as a political player in a concrete crisis. In fact, it is a kind of slight formalization of the E3 cooperation between France, Germany and the United Kingdom, without the creation of a new decision-making body. It is therefore a gremium for these leaders to invest in decisions as quickly as possible and to prepare any necessary action. I honestly do not see how Mr Koopmans' party, the VVD, can oppose this. That worries me a little, because every time it comes to increasing our security at European level, the VVD is against it. The VVD is against a European military force and against a European military headquarters and was against abolishing vetoes for a long time when it comes to sanctions and human rights declarations. I wonder why the VVD is against this again. What does the VVD actually want, that would be my counter-question in the field of European security? Because we don't have the luxury of pretending that the United States is going to take all the cabbages out of the fire for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u320	Of course, the VVD wants to invest more in defence, and I note that D66 is keen to do so. But he gives...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u321	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u322	...but limited answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u323	First Mr. Koopmans, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u324	I only get a very limited answer to my question. What I hear surprises me. We already knew that D66 wants to transfer much more power to Europe, but I had always understood that D66 also wanted it to be democratic. But now Mr Sjoerdsma says: I want a European Security Council. The Netherlands is not in that at all, not necessarily. What does that advice do? Mr Sjoerdsma says: prepare decisions. But the Netherlands is not in it. How is that democratic? I don't understand. That's what I want to hear from Mr Sjoerdsma. I would also like to hear how this contributes to security, because I believe that Europe needs more power policy than another consultative body, especially if we are not even in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u325	I said, "Excuse me?', Mr President, because I heard a slight factual error in Mr Koopmans' question. He was talking about what D66 did for defense. I'd like to start with that. Because D66 of this coalition might be the defense party. Under Rutte I, the VVD cut $1 billion in defense. Under Rutte II, the VVD saved 0.25 billion dollars on defence. And who turned that around? Then I look at Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind, who, together with my party, have reversed that trend of austerity. 115 million. 1,400 jobs at the Department of Defense. In all subsequent years, my party was involved in the investments in defence. Let's take a look at the election programs. The VVD programme does not contain the 2% of Mr Blok, but the European NATO average. So don't come to me with investing in defense, because that's our story. Now to the story I'm putting on top of that: the need for European cooperation. I have just outlined to you very clearly what the AIV wants with that Security Council, how important it is that we can react quickly in a crisis. I don't hear from the VVD. The proposal is ludicrous, but I do not hear a serious, concrete response to the serious points that the AIV and I have put down here. I would really like to say once again that it is crucial that we should not press the snooze button and think that the US is going to take over from us. You can't do that anymore. So if we are serious about European security, then I challenge Mr Koopmans and the VVD to do so once. And think of something that you are in favour of at European level at security level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u326	Mr Sjoerdsma continued his speech. I understand all the tendencies. I'm trying to finish the corona time at 11:00 today. And election debates, we'll have plenty of time for that in the next few months. You both had a slight tendency to do that. I understand the propensity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u327	I've tried to look into it, Mr. Chairman, but it didn't work out completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u328	You didn't manage very well, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Not only not completely but not particularly well. So I get Mr. Koopmans, too. And yet you are going to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u329	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u330	Mr President, I have very little interrupted. Some people have interrupted four times more than I have. I am directly addressed here to what is in the election program, and that is not true. I'm gonna have to make that right, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u331	You may now correct a factual error, but you may also correct it. What factual inaccuracies do you wish to correct? I'm not having an election debate here. I'm really trying to close the meeting here at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u332	You're right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u333	The factual inaccuracies. Let me just mention two. Mr Sjoerdsma's programme for the following period says: we work according to the average of the European Union in the end. That's 0.38 out of my head. The VVD programme for the following period says: we want to get to the European NATO average as soon as possible and as soon as it can continue economically. Those are huge differences. And then I am very glad that Mr Sjoerdsma joins...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u334	No, this was the actual difference. And you're not gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u335	But I'm actually happy about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u336	I'll continue with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u337	I'm not gonna respond to that either. I'm going to correct both of you. Both are still draft programmes that can be adjusted by your members. In particular, please engage in this discussion in the country! Mr. Sjoerdsma, you're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u338	You're right. Nor will I ask the chairman about his draft programme. I'll continue with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u339	The President does not currently have a draft programme, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u340	No, I know. That's why I'm not asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u341	You're applying to shut down. Please continue with your next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u342	Mr President, I will do that. My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands and the whole government are bound by the Paris climate goals;]] [[Considering that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an important role to play as a model worldwide;]] [[calls on the Government to fully align all instruments of foreign policy and diplomacy with the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement and to inform the Chamber of these efforts and results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u343	Mr. Chairman. Minister Blok has promised me in the first term to look at that term. I'm about to file a motion here. I'm gonna hold on to that, too. It is not intended to undermine that commitment. But it is to point out that I think it is really important that we take a serious look at this. So I hope that the Minister can show from his research that we can take out that period with regard to the children of executed Indonesian men. If not, this motion is still on the shelf somewhere. And I hope it gets a lot of dust there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands must face the black pages of the past;]] [[noting that the requirement of a reasonable period of time does not, in practice, allow children of Indonesians who have been executed by law to receive fair compensation for the suffering caused to them and their families;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the requirement for a reasonable period of time from this scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u344	Then I should like to thank all the colleagues who are going to leave this Chamber voluntarily for the wonderful cooperation we have had in recent years, for the fine debates, and to wish them every success, either with retirement or with a wonderful new career elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u345	Thank you. I call Mrs Ploumen. Mrs Ploumen says outside the microphone that she is a keeper and leaves in the middle whether that is in the Chamber or in box K. I'll give her the floor for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u346	Oh, wow! Thank you, Mr President. I have three motions and two final remarks. My first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that compliance with the peace agreement between Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh will take place mainly under the supervision of Russia and Turkey;]] [[Whereas it is not unthinkable that the conflict will ever flare up again;]] [[believes that it would be preferable for a neutral party to monitor the peace agreement between Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh in order to make a serious effort towards a truly sustainable solution;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, on a multilateral basis, how the OSCE and/or the Minsk Group can be involved in the monitoring role of the peace agreement, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u347	Two things. You said the conflict between Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u348	Sorry, excuse me. I also see a linguistic error.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u349	The motion read out is valid, so please indicate how you're changing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u350	There's also a spelling error in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u351	We haven't seen it yet, so you can correct it. Would you mind telling me who the conflict is between?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u352	Armenia and Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u353	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u354	Sorry about that. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, to date, sanctions have not been implemented in response to the repression of Uighurs and restrictions on their religious and cultural freedoms;]] [[considers that, in view of the gravity of the situation, personalised sanctions should be introduced in the shortest possible time;]] [[calls on the government, pending EU sanctions, to promote the introduction of sanctions in the international coalition of 39 countries that have spoken out against human rights violations in Xinjiang,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the shift of resources within the Human Rights Fund makes less money available for the promotion of human rights outside Europe, while the global democratic recession calls for greater commitment;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the consequences of this reduction in the Human Rights Fund for the deployment of human rights outside Europe and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u355	Mr. Chairman. We have cracked some critical notes in this debate and in other debates this year, but I would like to thank the Minister in particular for his commitment to the liability of the Assad regime. I believe that this step will lead to justice and show that the Netherlands has the intention of doing justice. I would like to thank him very much for that. I would also like to thank him for his positive response to the initiative taken by SheDecides for a petition to support the new administration, the new government in the United States, in the intention to allow women and girls to decide their bodies and their lives again. Thanks to the Minister. I hope he wants to sign the petition, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u356	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I call Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is also my last term in the Chamber. I'm not retiring. I hope to do other beautiful things. But because, of course, I cannot leave the world behind a little more beautifully through the Minister, at least that is what I hope I have five motions for resolutions. Sorry about that. I'm gonna try to read them quickly. The first concerns the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and Turkey's involvement in it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government recognises that Turkey was militaryly involved in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict;]] [[noting that Turkey transferred (Syrian) jihad fighters and had them fought in the battle in Nagorno-Karabakh;]] [[noting that Turkey is also militaryly involved in the conflicts in Syria and Libya and that Turkey wishes to return to gas and oil in areas belonging to Greece under international law;]] [[calls on the government within the EU to actively support a moratorium on the supply of arms to Turkey that may be deployed in the armed struggle in Nagorno-Karabakh, Libya or Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that Azerbaijan, supported by Turkje with the deployment of terrorist mercenaries from the Middle East, has committed gross violations of international law against the people of Nagorno-Karabakh, as reported by Amnesty International and Human Right Watch;]] [[Whereas the recognition of Kosovo followed the principle of remedial secession, including by the Netherlands, for serious violations of human rights and the obligation to respect and promote the right to self-determination, and the obligation to refrain from any forced action which deprives peoples of this right;]] [[Whereas the Responsibility to Protect is one of the core principles of Dutch foreign policy and involves a commitment by the international community to help protect peoples from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity;]] [[Whereas, following the agreement to end the war on 9 November, Russian peacekeepers were temporarily stationed to guard the ceasefire, but that, as long as the area has no international status, the Armenian population cannot derive protection from international law;]] [[calls on the Government to seek international advice on the possibility of recognising the Republic of Artsach on the basis of the principle of remedial secession,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Koopmans. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-45]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u358	I have to be really quick right now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that regular reception for victims of violence does not meet the specific reception requirements such as additional protection, psychosocial assistance, case management, legal assistance, for victims of (ISS) trafficking in human beings such as Jezidis, Christians, Koerden, Lhbtis;]] [[noting that there is a significant lack of this specific aid in the Kurdish autonomous region of northern Iraq;]] [[Calls on the Government to increase the capacity of existing reception (persons at high risk of) victims of trafficking in human beings by setting up an additional facility for these victims, including the necessary services in this facility such as case management, mental health care, legal assistance and psychosocial support;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of how the motion will be implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Koopmans and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u359	By the way, the world is not more beautiful as the number of motions increases. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u360	I understand, but I'm only gonna try one last time. Let me get into that illusion. It's the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u361	I like to leave all the spokesmen Abroad in that illusion. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u362	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that freedom of religion and belief is one of the priorities of this cabinet's human rights policy;]] [[Considering that the UN Special Rapporteur for the Freedom of Religion and Belief has an important role to play worldwide in promoting it;]] [[Calls on the Government, in line with the coalition agreement, to mobilise additional funds through OHCHR to support the activities in the area of freedom of religion and belief, a substantial part of which is for the implementation of the mandate and the follow-up of UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion and Belief, Mr Shaheed;]] [[invites the Cabinet to inform the Chamber in advance of how this will be implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Koopmans, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u363	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that this year the Netherlands supported six of the seven anti-Israeli resolutions in the UN, including a resolution that denies the Jewish connection in history with the Temple Mount by using only the Islamic name Haram al-Sharif;]] [[Considering that the House adopted the Van der Staaij motion calling on the government to take an active position in the UN against Member States in UN organisations disproportionate to Israel and to reject unjust resolutions;]] [[calls on the Government not to support UN resolutions which unilaterally use the Arab name and not the Hebrew name of the Temple Mount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u364	Thank you. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u365	It was certainly a pleasure to hear you in the Chamber as a very passionate foreign spokesman. You yourself started saying something about leaving, Mr. Van Ojik. I am very sorry to say that the next elections will have an extraordinary memory of foreign policy, as temporary President of the Chamber. The word is... sorry, I forgot to turn off the speaker's microphone. I can't do two things at once. I should have known. I call Mr Van der Staaij of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope to stay a while, so no goodbye from my side. In any case, thank you very much for the good hours we had at the Foreign Affairs budget with those who wave off. Mr. Chairman. I have a special motion for a resolution by Mr van der Staaij/Vordewind, as we have often tabled during the budget debate. I am sorry that I will not be able to submit it in any future. But here's the thing, the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Christians are the world's largest group of religious persecutions, and that persecution according to the Open Doors Ranking List of Christian persecutions takes place in at least 50 countries, in particular in the Middle East and (East) Asia;]] [[Whereas other religious minorities, including Uighurs and Jezidis, are also severely oppressed;]] [[Whereas this persecution of faith is extremely serious and threatening and is accompanied by physical and psychological violence, arbitrary imprisonment and sometimes even the death penalty;]] [[calls on the Government of the UN Human Rights Council to take the initiative to draw up resolutions specifically aimed at addressing and combating persecution of faith, including Christian persecution, in specific countries where this is most serious,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that resolutions are put to the vote regularly in various international (UN) organisations, including with regard to Israel and/or the Middle East Peace Process;]] [[Whereas the Court needs more insight into the attitude and voting behaviour of the Netherlands with regard to resolutions;]] [[calls on the Government to proactively and comprehensively inform the Chamber of the Dutch commitment to UN-Gremia on resolutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u368	Finally, Mr President. I had tabled a motion to the General Reviews on restarting the Association Council on Israel. At that time, at the request of the Prime Minister, we kept it for this budget debate. That's what a letter came about. I would therefore like this motion 35570 in part No. The vote will take place at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u369	We'll make sure of that. Has the government made any judgment on that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u370	I don't know if that's literally in the letter. In any case, there was a positive assessment of what is requested in the motion, namely the restart of the Association Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u371	Then I will hear whether the Foreign Minister can confirm this on the spot or formally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u373	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, on the side of the Chamber, Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u374	Thank you, Mr President. I've got four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that Israel approved construction plans for record numbers of new housing units in Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territories in 2020;]] [[noting that the settlements are in breach of international law;]] [[noting that the settlements are seen by the government as an obstacle to achieving a two-state solution;]] [[noting that the Government is committed to achieving the two-state solution;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt, in future by the Israeli authorities, a ban on the economic relations of all companies registered in the Netherlands with these settlements and/or economic entities in these settlements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government expresses serious concern about the human rights situation in Xinjiang;]] [[calls on the Government, as long as China does not provide the international community with access to Xingjiang through an independent investigation and observation mission, to promote, at EU level, personalised sanctions against individuals responsible for or known to have contributed to human rights violations against the Uighurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that a trilateral agreement has been reached between Azerbaijan, Armenia and Russia with a view to achieving peace in the region;]] [[Whereas peace and stability are important for the whole region, but certainly also for the Azerbaijanis and Armenians;]] [[calls on the Government to support this peace agreement at European level and to consider how the European Union can contribute to its compliance with this agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u375	And the final motion again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the latest research carried out by the International Institute of Peace Research in Stockholm, there is modernisation of nuclear weapons systems in all nine nuclear states;]] [[Whereas, at the time of increasing geopolitical tensions, these are worrying developments;]] [[Whereas nuclear disarmament can contribute to global security, especially in Europe;]] [[whereas there are American nuclear weapons in Europe;]] [[calls on the government to gather support from allies for a plan for verifiable and demonstrable disarmament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-V-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u376	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u377	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. This will put an end to the second term of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes to allow the government to respond to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u378	I will resume the meeting for the Foreign Minister's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to speak slowly, because I still see people walking in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u380	The best way to get them in is to resume the meeting and just start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u381	Mr. Chairman. A number of motions have been tabled and a number of supplementary questions have been put. First of all, Mr De Roon. His first motion requests that Muhammad cartoons be hanged in all embassies and consulates. There is one instruction for hanging images in embassies and consulates. Of course Mr De Roon knows it. That's a picture of the head of state and his wife. Furthermore, it is to the people at the embassies and consulates free of charge. I think that also fits very well with the Dutch tradition. So I must advise against this motion. Mr De Roon's second motion asks the government to consider whether China can be held legally liable. He's referring to the covid pandemic. An investigation has been initiated by the World Health Organisation. This is carried out by an independent panel. It is very important that we find out how the pandemic happened and how the first reactions were, but I do not want to anticipate the results. I must therefore also advise against this motion. Mr De Roon's third motion calls on the government to lift the embargo on arms exports to Taiwan. The Netherlands signed an agreement with China in 1984 and Mr De Roon himself pointed out that we would no longer export arms to Taiwan. The Netherlands keeps to its commitments, so I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u382	I'm a hard learner with the middle microphone that doesn't work. I understand that the Netherlands is keeping to the agreements. That's good, too. However, I would just like to ask whether the Minister can see room for adjustment in the direction described by Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u383	I don't think that's obvious. The Netherlands has contacts with Taiwan, for example about health. We also have economic contacts. We also advocate Taiwan's participation in international organisations, for example the World Health Organisation. The Chamber has asked for this in the past. At the same time, the Netherlands supports the one-China policy. Defence supplies to Taiwan again do not relate to that. The question was not whether it led to another judgment on the motion. Mr De Roon's fourth motion is actually an appeal to the Chamber. I hope that Mr De Roon has seen that, on Twitter, but also in telephone conversations, I have expressed my support for the conclusion of these agreements. The call is further to the Chamber, so I'll leave it to the Chamber. Mr De Roon's fifth motion asks the government to move the Dutch embassy of Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. I would advise against this, because this can only be done after there is an agreement that includes a two-state solution. Then I come to Mr Van Ojik. I do not assume that these are Mr Van Ojik's last motions, because we are going to have a number of debates with each other. I take it for granted that Mr Van Ojik still wants to amend me, which is actually strange. The motion in part No. 28 calls on the Government to strengthen its capacity in the Ministry with regard to human rights defenders and threatened journalists. I appreciate the wish and commitment to these important issues. In recent years, thanks to the coalition agreement, I have been given more room for important reinforcements, so I do not intend to do so now, nor the means to do so. So I'm gonna have to dissuade this one. The motion in part No. 29 calls on the government to promote a new European strategy for energy security within the EU. On the basis of a request from Mr Van der Staaij, I have promised that I, together with my colleague from EZK, will come up with a letter on Dutch energy dependence. This dependence is, of course, tied to this subject, the European strategy. I would ask Mr Van Ojik and his fellow petitioner to hold the motion until that letter arrives. I think it would be better, after consultation with my colleague, to deal with it. It makes sense that I won't wait too long with the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u384	I do realise that Mr Van der Staaij's motion on Dutch energy dependence has been adopted. I think that's a logical idea. So I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u385	At the request of Mr Van Ojik, I propose his motion (35570-V, No. 29). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u386	Then the motion to part No. 30 by Mr Van Helvert and a number of others. The motion calls on the cabinet to step up its efforts to combat impunity in the area of strengthening the UN investigation and evidence collection mechanisms in Syria, Yemen, Libya and Myanmar, among others. That request is in line with the priorities of the cabinet. I'd like to leave this motion to the House's judgment. The next motion by Mr Van Helvert is the motion in part No. 31. This motion calls on the government to work with other Member States of the European Union to ensure that independent observers are sent to Nagorno-Karabakh, either by the EU or by the OSCE or by the UN. I support the wish of the motion. It seems to me that it would be a great gain if observers could go there. So I'd like to leave the motion to the House's judgment. The motion in part No. 32 is also about Nagorno-Karabakh and calls for humanitarian aid. The budget for humanitarian aid and its use concern the area of my colleague, Mr Kaag. I would actually ask that the motion be retained until Mr Kaag's budget is discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u387	We'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u388	At the request of Mr Van Helvert, I propose his motion (35570-V, No. 32), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u389	The motion in part No. 33 by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind, the government calls for personal sanctions against the Azerbaijani President and his family members and key figures in the European Union. This motion has been filed before. Here I really want to use the right order, also because I am convinced that this is the only way to get enough countries. The order is as follows: first we need to examine who has committed human rights violations, the use of chemical weapons or other violations of international law. After such investigations have been completed, sanctions or legal proceedings may be instituted. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. Then I come to Mrs Karabulut. She asked me once again to deal with criminal investigations in connection with the lethal shooting on the Israeli-Gaza border. 13 criminal investigations have been launched and another 200 investigations have been launched by the military prosecutor. There have also been a number of convictions. So it is true that judicial investigations and prosecutions are also taking place. Then I come to Mrs Karabulut's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u390	There is a question first from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u391	Thirteen investigations have indeed been initiated. We haven't heard much about that. Two community service sentences were awarded in 2018, on 200 deaths and over 8,000 wounded. After Mr Van Helvert had rightly spoken about murder, the Minister also said: I expect Israel to pick this up quickly, in time and accurately. I remember that very well. And now there are two community service, Mr. Chairman. And that's not even for murder, but because they didn't wait for the order to fire. Is that consistent with how the minister saw that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u392	We talked about it after that. At that time, I indicated that I saw too little progress at that time. I have also indicated to you that I have received information very recently, and I have also shared it with you, which states that there is a much greater number of prosecutions. It is not for me to take up the position of the judge by saying exactly who is guilty of what, but I note that there is indeed persecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u393	But like I said, not once has been prosecuted for murder, for killing those innocent children. Two community service, Mr. Chairman! The Minister indeed said that they must investigate, that must be done in good time and then the guilty should be prosecuted. So it goes both slowly and people are not convicted. Instead, they get community service. How does the Minister feel about that? I mean, everything indicates that those responsible for those murders will get away with it. That is not the first time, and my question to the Minister would therefore be: what can the Minister do more than just sum up what information he has received from the authorities there? This means that there is little action to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u394	I can't sit on the Israeli judge's chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u395	That wasn't the question. Mrs Karabulut has the opportunity to repeat the question. What else could happen was the question and not whether the Minister would like to sit in that chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u396	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. That wasn't the question. That was not the case with Assange and it is not now. I just want an answer from the Minister. He said, when we discussed it again in 2019, that he expected the research to go quickly and deliver results quickly. And the result is two community service sentences, not for murder, but because they didn't wait long enough for the firing order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u397	But Mrs Karabulut, in her question, asks for an opinion on what the judge has said. Mrs Karabulut states that they were not convicted of murder, but I cannot judge whether there was murder or whether there was justified violence. The images were very moving, but I can't judge that from my place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u398	I ask the Minister whether he wants to make an effort to combat this impunity and those responsible for these violent crimes! Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Does he want to promote that process? What's the Minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u399	Sure. That is why I have asked the Israeli Minister a number of times. I have also received an answer to that and I am also happy to continue to do so. But the question of why people are not convicted of murder is a question to the judge and not to a Dutch minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u400	The last time for Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u401	Mr President, I object, because that was not my question. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to draw up a plan with similar countries to ensure that these people do not just get away with these crimes. It is not the first time that violent violence has been used, that people are killed and that those responsible then get away with it and/or get community service. Surely I don't have to explain that this is a pattern? If the minister says he doesn't want it, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u402	No, now the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u403	I stand by my efforts, and this has been stressed by the Israeli authorities, that persecution must take place and that we must be kept informed. I would also be happy to inform the Chamber about this, but I cannot go into the content of the judgments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u404	I would indeed like to hear when the Minister wishes to inform us of progress. What's next?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u405	I don't know, because we just got this information. I shared that with you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u406	Could we meet, for example, and I would just like to help the Minister that we will have that at the beginning of next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u407	I must, of course, have new information. I can't predict when that's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u408	When the minister says "I'm gonna make extra efforts," and it's really not just a case...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u409	I assume that the Minister can mention a time when he will inform the Chamber, even if there is no further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u410	That way, yeah. That can also be done at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u411	Then I note that early next year, in January or February, information comes about the case of Gaza.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u412	I can see where Mrs Karabulut's frustration is sitting here. The interpretation of the cabinet has always been: we must let Israel's legal system do the work. That is what I have been trying to do and I think it is right to do so. I am pleased that the Minister is now saying: we are bringing news at the beginning of January, and if there is no news, we are reporting it. But I also think that perhaps the Minister should consult with his officials to see what possibilities there are for some way or another of this to be denounced. For I think that this minister too, regardless of how he is in the competition, cannot reconcile the discrepancy between the enormous number of deaths and injuries on the one hand and the two community service sentences on the other. I know that the Minister cannot reconcile that either, so I would ask him to think for a moment, apart from that letter, about what action the Netherlands can associate with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u413	I have also indicated that there is a reason why I have been in talks with the Israeli Minister. There has not been such a long time since a new Israeli Minister has always called attention to this issue, with this as a result. I have also indicated that I will continue to do so. The next motion by Mrs Karabulut, the motion in part No. 34, calls on the government to take an initiative with similar countries to identify options for possible measures against those responsible for using hunger as a weapon. That is in line with the Dutch commitment and our resolution in the UN Security Council, so I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 35 also by Mrs Karabulut, calls on the government to press for personal sanctions for violence in Azerbaijan and Turkey. In line with the opinion I gave on Mr De Roon's motion, I would like to use the appropriate order here, namely to examine first and then to look at what sanctions or judicial measures are at issue. I therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u414	But this motion doesn't say anything about the order. I am happy to give that order and that space to the Minister, so that does not have to bring him to that judgment. That is not an argument to discourage this motion. I heartily encourage the Minister to investigate, to map it and to work for that targeted... I didn't mention anyone here or anything. I would very much like, for example, that the Minister imposes travel restrictions on some people, but that is not what I am concerned about in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u415	Mrs Karabulut has also stressed a few times this evening that she believes that the Netherlands should be a leader in international law. Part of that is the right order. Yeah, there's reason to believe that people can be prosecuted here. We share that. But that must always be done in the order of good research, facts on the table, and then prosecuting people. That's why I dissuade the motion, because it starts at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u416	But the Minister himself says that there is reason to believe that people can be prosecuted here. It is precisely that assumption that lies under this motion. Then I am not saying at all: you must first impose sanctions and then investigate. No, Minister, get to work quickly. That's also a chamber-wide wish here. Do that investigation. This is where it can turn out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u417	We've already indicated that we want to do that investigation. You are making a very big point of it now, but once again, your motion starts at the very end of the journey. I'd start in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u418	No, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u419	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u420	Then the motion to part No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u421	I would like to come back to Mrs Karabulut's point. She's got a point. We have a bit of similar motions. She had already invited me to do it together, but I couldn't make it with the alignment. We can look into that after the meeting. But in principle, of course, it is the same idea. In my motion too, if the Minister does not yet have enough evidence to impose sanctions, we are waiting for him to have enough. However, we can say that we will proceed immediately as soon as it is known and it is clear who has violated human rights. If I have to change my word for it or if I have to put it in order that this will come after studies have shown it, then I would like to change it. It is true that we have really targeted clues. I'm comparing it to the discussion we just had about Gaza. There was also said: first we wait for the investigation and then we do it. But that investigation has never been completed at all. Maybe they didn't start it at all. And that might be true here, too. We know that human rights have been violated. NGOs have already made clear investigations into this. If we wait here for weeks, months and years until the investigation into who violated human rights is completed, nothing will happen. Then it stays with what the Minister said. We'll follow it and then it stays with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u422	Your point is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u423	Mr Van Helvert did indeed have a similar motion, but he also mentioned specific persons. I have also indicated that it may well be that the investigation process leads to sanctions or prosecutions of those persons, but in the right order. So, indeed, the reasoning is the same as with Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u424	It's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u425	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, for coming in again at this late hour. So we could change the motion. Then we say that we encourage the investigation to be carried out. Perhaps the Minister can also encourage it to be concluded quickly and that, once the investigations have been completed, the Minister can, if necessary, proceed to sanctioning the human rights perpetrators involved in this conflict. Something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u426	I'm sure we can find a formulation that meets the criteria, but I'll have to see it for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u427	Okay, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u428	If you come up with the modified version, I can come back to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u429	We can see if we can change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u430	If we then put in place 'to investigate in order to arrive at targeted sanctions', can the Minister resolve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u431	I really want to see that for me. I think that a solution is possible, but I don't know if we should do it at 11:05 p.m., because this is listening closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u432	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u433	The motion in part No. Mrs Karabulut's 36 is not an appeal to the government, but a statement from the Chamber. The motion in part No. 37 by Mrs Karabulut, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik ask the government to look for ways in which the Netherlands can comply with the International Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The Netherlands is not a signatory to this Convention. The Netherlands is committed to nuclear disarmament, but as a member of NATO it is part of an alliance that also has nuclear defence. So I must discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 38 also by Mrs Karabulut, calls on the Government to stop granting export licences for Egypt until further notice. A very heavy test is taking place for Egypt, but it does not mean that arms exports are not licensed at all. So I must advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 39 by Mr Sjoerdsma...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u434	One question, that's all, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u435	Has the Minister thought, and would he like to answer the question, about the violation of the NPT because of the nuclear weapons exercises?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u436	This is based on an assumption that there would be nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. I would remind you of the Treaty obligation which means that NATO Member States do not communicate where nuclear weapons lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u437	I would like to draw attention to the action of the Minister of Defence and the letters from the Defence Department on a new transparency policy and the party with Stoltenberg. I can ask Parliament questions again, and I will certainly do so, but this can't really be done. It cannot be that there is information, information from the government itself, that I ask questions about it, and that the Minister then pretends that none of that has been said. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u438	I suggest that you continue this debate with the Minister of Defence in the Defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u439	The motion at No. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert asked the government to make efforts to establish a European Security Council and to involve the British. Mr Sjoerdsma and I have had an extensive debate. We didn't completely agree. On the basis of the considerations we exchanged there, I would nevertheless advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u440	The Minister refers to considerations on his part. He can do that, but those considerations had nothing to do with my proposal. He talked about binding agreements that the Netherlands would be bound by. I have just explained my proposal here, at the request of Mr Koopmans. I would ask the Minister to respond to that interpretation of the motion and not to interpret it as the Minister himself explains.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u441	I am trying to do you justice in quoting what you just exchanged with Mr Koopmans. You see a role for such a security board as a game dealer. The term 'game distributor' raises the same questions to me as we exchanged in our debate on the interruption: what does that mean? Is a game dealer someone with a mandatory authority, or is it someone with an advisory authority? That is very crucial to know whether or not you want to promote such a construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u442	I will quote myself from the Acts. I think that will help, and all of us, because that will help us towards the end of the debate. I am talking, by analogy with the AIV, a European Security Council, an informal consultative body working as a political divider in a concrete crisis, not a new decision-making body, with a slight form of formalisation, of cooperation between Germany, France and the UK, a forum for these leaders to have rapid consultations and to prepare for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u443	Then that consultation will take place on that action. And then what? We don't agree. It's okay. The Chamber can, of course, decide on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u444	If you want to discourage a motion, that's your right as Minister, especially in this house. But if you advise a motion from a party in this house, I expect that there are arguments on the basis of that. I'll admit it's subjective, but I think I've gotten rid of all your arguments. That then there is still a difference of opinion... No, then you need to lay down something about why you don't like it. But I hear you don't say. It is crucial that we do and take these steps. I therefore ask you once again to reconsider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u445	No. For that, I really need a completed proposal, which addresses the question of which powers, who and what that means for the Netherlands. Then I'd be happy to discuss that. But without that information, this remains my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u446	Here's a minister who just doesn't want anything with this. We have asked the Minister from the Chamber to take action. We are putting forward a clear proposal in the direction in which we want something. D66 has one employee for that. The CDA has one employee for that. We are pointing in the direction of something we would like to see: a security council. Indeed, that has not been worked out in detail. In fact, the Minister, who has a lot more staff, can now fill out what would be best for the Netherlands in terms of how that should work. So the Minister could also say: how nice you are to think about how we can make Europe safer, and I will consider with my people, with my staff, how that would be best for the Netherlands. Why doesn't the Minister take that chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u447	Because in the construction of a security council like Mr Sjoerdsma, who just described it even more extensively, I see no added value. It does raise a number of questions. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u448	Finally, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u449	The AIV opinion also says: it would be good if there was such a security council. The cabinet can also respond to this. But he doesn't say that either: yes, what the AIV says isn't exactly worked out, so we're not doing anything until the AIV or a MP or a member of parliament has worked it out. That's not how we work in the Netherlands, is it? We say as Chamber, the highest body: we would like to move towards such a security council. If the House were to say by majority vote in favour of a minority, you would not do it if we wanted to go in that direction, then you, as Minister, could not say: work it all out, and then I am going to do something? That's not how we work with each other, is it? The Minister, Mr President, that is my question. If this motion is adopted, will I go with my people to see how it would work out best for the Netherlands and for Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u450	You will put the motion to the vote, and if it is adopted, I will, of course, come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u451	The Minister will continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u452	The motion in part No. 40 also belongs to Mr Sjoerdsma. It calls on the Government to fully align all foreign policy and diplomacy instruments with the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. As Mr Sjoerdsma knows, a very large number of instruments are being greened. These are often instruments in the area of BuHa-OS' colleague. The motion raises a number of questions. That is why I would like to make a comment. There are a number of industries where you can raise the question of whether or not this makes a positive contribution to the climate issue, CO emissions. Think, for example, of distant journeys. Think about the production of meat. Think of the petrochemical industry. In terms of legal equality, these companies can, of course, simply use the same type of support as other companies can use. So, if I may interpret the motion in such a way that the commitment that the cabinet already knows in the direction of export instruments and support is directed towards the continuation of climate policy, then I can leave the judgement to the Chamber. If the motion meant that some kind of service would not be provided to companies now and should be provided in the context of equality of law, that would be problematic. In short, with the explanation I give, I can leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u453	I see Mr Sjoerdsma nodding. Then we'll proceed with the motion in part no. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u454	That is the motion on the reasonable period of time, of which Mr Sjoerdsma himself has indicated his intention to hold it until I come up with a written legal response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u455	I would like to hold that motion, although I hope that it will not be a legal response, but above all a political one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u456	Sure, but it also requires some legal backing. But you're gonna get a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u457	At the request of Mr Sjoerdsma, I propose his motion (35570-V, No. 41). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u458	In the motion in part No. Mrs Ploumen asked the government to examine, multilaterally, how the OSCE and/or the Minsk Group could be involved in the monitoring role of the peace agreement in Nagorno-Karabakh. I'd like to leave that motion to the House's judgment. The motion in part No. 43 calls on the government, pending EU sanctions, to call for sanctions to be imposed in the international coalition of 39 countries that have spoken out against human rights violations in Xinjiang. The Netherlands is one of the countries that has spoken out against this. However, the imposition of sanctions requires an international legal basis, and there is no such basis. I have already mentioned our joint effort towards a human rights sanctions regime. It is possible that this can be done, but in anticipation, I do not think it is a logical route to take this step with 39 countries outside the EU. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Ploumen asked the government to identify the consequences of the reduction of the Human Rights Fund for the use of human rights outside Europe. That's a misunderstanding. There is no reduction or shift of resources, at least not to less money for human rights outside Europe. So I'm deceiving the motion. There was another question from Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. They asked us from what source we have used for the answer that there are also reports of the use of cluster munitions by Armenian troops. This is from the Human Rights Watch website, which refers to an attack on Barda in Azerbaijan. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 45. It invites the government within the EU to actively support a moratorium on the supply of arms to Turkey that may be deployed in the armed struggle in Nagorno-Karabakh, Libya or Syria. I have indicated that I will be happy to make that effort. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House's judgement. Then Mr Voordewind, together with Mr Van Helvert, asks the government in the motion for a resolution on item No. 46 to seek international advice on the possibility of recognising the Republic of Artsach on the basis of remedial secession. I asked my lawyers how they looked at that and I shared it with you. The Chamber is free to ask for this advice from the CAVV, so I suggest she make use of it. The motion itself I advise against. The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind and others asked the government to increase the capacity of existing reception facilities for persons at high risk of being victims of trafficking by setting up an additional facility for case management, mental health care, legal assistance and psychosocial support. This is in line with the commitment of the cabinet in Iraq and Kurdistan. So I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind and others asked the government to release additional funds through the High Commissioner for Human Rights to support activities in the area of freedom of religion and belief. I would also like to leave it to the House to decide. The motion in part No. 49 calls on the government not to support UN resolutions which unilaterally use the Arab name and not the Hebrew name of the Temple Mount. I actually received the same motion in the First Chamber and then asked to support the very hard wording 'no' resolutions to convert 'as little as possible' into 'as little as possible'. I have done so because it depends on the content of the resolution whether or not you want to support it on balance, because there can be sensible things in the resolution. I am aware that the Temple Mount is important for different religions. I must advise against this wording. If it were to be amended in the same way as the motion in the First Chamber, I could leave the judgment to the Chamber. But in this form, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u459	Mr Voordewind has another question on the motion for a resolution. 49.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u460	Because this minister is constantly committed to even-handedness, also in relation to the UN resolutions, taking into account the motion of Van de Staaij, wouldn't that actually be Chamber judgment? I'm a little surprised. Titles should then be included in that resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u461	The Van der Staaij motion calling for less unilateral action by UN organisations towards Israel and less resolutions is also being carried out. I have also reported that that number has indeed decreased. Not to zero, but it's decreased. This motion says very loudly: not to support any resolution. For that purpose of reduction or a more balanced text, you may accept that this name is in it. That is also the argument that I mentioned in the First Chamber, which led to a wording that I was able to give there judgment Chamber. Well, I'll give that up for consideration. The motion in part No. Mr Van der Staaij asked the government in the UN Human Rights Council to take the initiative to draw up resolutions aimed at appointing and countering religious persecution and specifically Christian persecution. That's in line with our commitment. So I'd like to leave this motion to the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 51, also by Mr Van der Staaij, the government invites the Chamber to proactively inform the Chamber about the Dutch commitment in UN-Gremia to resolutions on, among other things, Israel and/or the Middle East Peace Process and to inform the Chamber afterwards. I have just indicated, as was stated in the written reply, how we are going to use Mr Van der Staaij's motion and that this will also lead to results. Informing you in advance about resolutions would mean that you will be called constantly at night. I will be. These are negotiating processes which, until the last minute, lead to adjustments, both of texts and of final voting positions. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u462	The motion is dissuaded. But I don't see the word "before" in the motion. "Proactive" is not "before."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u463	Of course, we know more cases. In the European context, too, it is often the case that you do not know exactly how things are going. But I am concerned that sometimes we do not really have any insight into and are surprised by what is going on in all sorts of motions or resolutions. My question is to say proactively, as much as reasonably possible, that this is coming and that is how the Netherlands intends to prepare itself. With all understanding that this cannot mean that you are expressing all this precisely by resolution, but now the information is very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u464	I would like to return to it in writing. You are right in comparison with Europe, but the procedures are rather standardized there. I am getting agendas in advance with what is at stake at the European Councils. I'll share it with you again. It helps that you say you don't want to know by resolution. So I will return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u465	I would ask you to do so before Monday evening, so that this information is available before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u466	I'd like to ask you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u467	You're making a request to hold the motion. Do you have a deadline in mind that you might return to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u468	Well, that should work in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u469	Is it not possible to get that information before the votes? This is actually more about the traffic between the Chamber and the Government with regard to information. It would be more convenient, I think, if it could just be done by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u470	The reason I doubt is that I do want to have a precise overview of the places for which this can come. There are quite a few meetings where this type of resolution is adopted. I'd give it a try for Tuesday, but I may need a little more time. I'm gonna do my best. Mr Van der Staaij had already tabled a motion at the General Reviews on a restart of the Association Council. I'd like to leave it to the House's discretion. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu asked for a ban on economic relations between all companies registered in the Netherlands with settlements or economic entities in those settlements. The government is in favour of informing consumers about the origin of goods, but not for what is actually requested here, a boycott of products. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu asked for personal sanctions to be applied at EU level if they were known to contribute to human rights violations against the Uighurs. Again, there must be a sanctioning regime before sanctions can be implemented. You know that a sanction regime is being worked on, but the motion is ahead of us. I must also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu asked the government to support the peace agreement on Nagorno-Karabakh at European level and to take stock of how the European Union could contribute to its compliance with this agreement. I have already indicated that, on balance, it is a gain that the hostilities have ended, but that it is a peace agreement that raises many questions. My commitment through the OSCE is to contribute, for example through observers. But the whole thesis of "supporting" really depends on the further development. I must also advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. Mr Kuzu. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Kuzu on It calls for a plan for verifiable and demonstrable disarmament. The Netherlands is very active in the framework of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the review conference that is coming up again. We are doing so in the light of the fact that we are members of NATO and are therefore also partly protected by a nuclear umbrella. This motion is to be dissuaded on balance. This brings me to the end of the motions and the remaining questions, not quite before 11:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u471	Mr. Chairman... Yeah, I'm totally getting used to my new position, colleagues. I'm so sorry. I have one more question from Mr De Roon on Mr Geert Wilders' freedom of expression in Pakistan. He had the request or you would like to return to it by letter. I haven't heard an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u472	I have indicated that the Netherlands has been very clear towards Turkey in declaring the declaration made unacceptable and trying to exert pressure on Mr Wilders, Dutch parliamentarians. I have indicated that the Public Prosecutor's Office, myself and my people have repeatedly urged Pakistan to give legal follow-up to Dutch legal action. We'll keep doing that. That letter would say exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u473	Mr Sjoerdsma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u474	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, just one more question just to be safe. Apologies to the colleagues, too. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu's 53th report is not recommended, but this motion has already been adopted by the Chamber in almost the same form. At that time, moreover, she was also dissuaded by the Prime Minister, so the cabinet is consistent in that respect, but I expect the cabinet to carry out my motion, and hence the thrust of Mr Kuzu's motion. There is a majority in the Chamber for that and there is also a clear request to the cabinet. In my opinion, it was also mentioned in the written reply of the cabinet that this was being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u475	Sure, but I was also talking about the order in which. In the written reply I indicated: first the human rights regime in action and then the names that will be covered by it. That order is the reason I'm deceiving this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u476	Clear. Then we came to the end of the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-22.u477	The votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday. The amendments and the budget itself will be put to the vote at a later date, before Christmas. I would like to conclude by thanking the House of Representatives. We promised to close by 11 p.m., but we are doing better than our colleagues at Finance yesterday.
