ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the PvdA, for his question to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations on the holding of a critical inspection report by the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all have legislation in the Netherlands to ensure the safety of homes, to protect nature, to reduce noise and to establish health. The Inspection Environment and Transport supervises this. The inspection came with an alarming report in 2018. She's all been looking at city planning. She has checked whether there are houses close to, for example, a fireworks store, an industrial activity or a place where hazardous substances are used, because in the 130 metres around it that is not allowed. Houses must be in a safe environment. However, this does not appear to be properly regulated in one out of three cases and in three out of four cases it does not appear to have been looked at. I ask the Minister how that is possible. How is that possible, because we have rules here to establish security? We have had enormous disasters in the past and have seen the misery of them. I mention the fireworks disaster in Enschede. How come it's not settled? And my second question is how it is possible that this report has been muffled away, that the conclusions have been adjusted and that it has not been sent to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I've seen two letters from the cabinet in response to them. It's actually a bit: slow down, go ahead, because it's okay. I really do not think that does justice to the conclusions of the report. I've been able to read it all by now. The NRC put it there. And it's really alarming, because it's not just about safety, it's about nature protection. Is the Wadden Sea sufficiently protected? So I'm asking the Minister if people live safe. Is nature even protected? And do people not suffer from excessive noise pollution because the legislation is not properly complied with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am here on behalf of Mr Van Veldhoven, who is currently in the Upper House. I understood that the questions were particularly relevant to the second question put by Mr Nijboer. How is it that the report, as he says, has been muffled away? In any case, I can fight the latter right away. No report has been muffled away. Perhaps it would be good, also in connection with the coverage in the NRC, to indicate what did happen. As far as I have been able to check this out, and I have checked everything, I have spoken to the officials concerned, there has been no pressure on the ILT to change anything in the report. As you know, it is customary that annual reports are always submitted to the ministries to see what they see as factual errors in the reports concerning their ministry. This has also happened in this case. This means that policy officials of the department can ask enlightening questions, in this case to the ILT. That's what happened from the side of BZK. In the end, it seems that this has led to an adaptation of the report. As far as I've been able to check, again, I've had everything turned inside out. I wouldn't want that either, and I wouldn't be able to take responsibility for it. Why not? Mr Nijboer is now setting out a certain climate, but we live in a country in which this inspection, an independent body, an independent body, must be able to do its job completely freely. So that means there can be no interference from any department, not from the Ministry of the Interior either. Secondly, I am very much in favour of openness and transparency. If the picture is awakened that something is being kept under wraps or that things have not come to light, I find that extremely regrettable. In this context, I would also like to point out that yesterday Mr Nijboer referred to it, a letter was published, among others, by my colleague Mr Van Veldhoven, but that the inspection also issued a statement in which she herself acknowledged that there was no pressure whatsoever on her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	Then aren't the statements of the inspection in the NRC correct? She herself says that she does not recognize herself in the facts put forward and the reassuring words received by the Chamber. That was just wrong. I have read the report myself and I find it alarming. I also asked the Minister if people are safe. I don't care if he's expecting questions about that. I'm gonna ask the questions the way I want them to. If in one of the three zoning plans homes are too close to dangerous industry, fireworks stores or chemical mess, if noise levels are exceeded, if nature is not protected, are people safe? Is the Minister sure that these planning plans will be complied with? Is the Minister sure that the houses are at sufficient distance? These letters from the cabinet were written very quickly, I think, but they do not give any clarity on those points. I do think the Minister is responsible for that. We don't make these laws here for nothing. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	Of course. Laws adopted at a national level are the responsibility of the ministers, in this case by several government officials in the cabinet who are involved in this. I therefore think that it would be appropriate to address questions relating to this issue as well. The question was: 'There was yesterday's commotion about whether things were changed in the report under pressure and whether this might have an impact on safety or whatever. That is not the case, I say in the direction of Mr Nijboer. Isn't that a good thing to establish here? The statement issued yesterday by the inspection is also very clear. I've got it right here. It says that the ILT has not experienced pressure from BZK or other departments not to publish documents or update annual reports. The decision not to publish the document as an independent report but to include it in the annual report was taken by the ILT itself. That's the way it's supposed to be. There should be no interference. There's supposed to be an independent responsibility. At the moment when the ILT finds that unsafe situations occur, I say in the direction of Mr Nijboer, she can report on this. Then it is up to the leaders responsible to take this up, to follow those recommendations as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	We have seen very soothing words from the ILT, but I find the report alarming and not soothing at all. The minister says there are several directors responsible for this. Perhaps that is also one of the problems, that we no longer have a Minister for Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment, but that everyone does everything a little bit. I haven't heard any guarantees for people living at a gas station, for example. There is also an example of this in the report. There's an old-age care facility nearby. You can't do that at all, but it's there. Think also of people who live far too close to industry where dangerous substances are also used. I have not heard any substantive response from the Minister to the question whether this is the case in the Netherlands. How many people live near those dangerous places? How often does this happen? Is there any response to this? Do these people have to move? What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? All I hear is the ILT says she wasn't pressured. I don't even think that's the most interesting question. I find it interesting whether these people live safely and what the cabinet is going to do about it. Is the cabinet gonna make sure those people live safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	As far as the legislation referred to by Mr Nijboer is concerned, and there are a lot of laws which he unintentionally lists here, I can say in general that this is always the case with a law which requires what to do and what to do, and that enforcement should take place in the event of infringements. That's still the order of the day. The Inspectorate for the Environment and Transport also monitors this and reports on this to the responsible directors. They will have to act on this within the domain that concerns them, within the domain of their ministerial responsibility. Those really are some rulers in this cabinet. So this question is very general. I can't answer that in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr President, I note that I have not received any answers to the substantive questions as to how many houses are unsafe and what is being done about them. I will continue this discussion in a debate or in written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think we've come to a bit of a miraculous situation. Yesterday morning there was a supercritical piece in NRC, in which ILT staff say that a report of theirs has been sort of eliminated and the conclusions have been modified. The minister then sends a note to the Chamber in which the top of the ILT says: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What would the Minister like to say to the ILT staff? They have that feeling, because otherwise it won't just be in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Smeulders adds a number of assumptions to his question which I cannot answer. I can only state within the ministerial responsibility of my department, the Ministry of the Interior, that our department has not put any pressure on reports from the ILT. I refer to the statement issued by the inspector-general of the ILT, in which he says that there has been no pressure in any way. That's what's on the table. That is something Mr Smeulders can appeal to me on. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	The second question, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr President, yes, the second question, but I hope you will also conclude that I have not received an answer to my first question. My first question is: what does the Minister want to say to the ILT staff? Apparently they feel pressured, because otherwise they won't tell NRC. I have a feeling the Minister doesn't want to answer that question. That is why there is a second question. The Minister says that transparency is so important and that it is so important. Is the Minister prepared to send all correspondence in this area between the Ministry and the ILT in recent months, years when it was playing, but also in recent days, to the Chamber? Then we can see for ourselves whether or not pressure has been exerted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	In the context of transparency, of course, with respect for and respect for the rules governing the position of individual civil servants, I shall stand for that; you can address me on my ministerial responsibility, because I have nothing to hide, the answer to be given to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	This report was published on 10 February, after a lot of commotion was caused by the article in the NRC. This was simply kept under review because it was not convenient, because the Environment Act had to be implemented but this report showed that both the province and the municipality were not performing their tasks properly. If this report is under consideration, I ask the Minister, isn't that unconstitutional? Is it possible for the Court to carry out its work properly if such critical reports are kept under wraps? And secondly, is the Minister prepared to disclose all reports of the ILT and other relevant matters relating to the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr Van Gerven now addresses me as Minister of the Interior on an area for which I have no responsibility. I can pass on Mr Van Gerven's request. I can only say that I have just done so in the direction of Mr Smeulders when it comes to the interaction between the Ministry of the Interior and the ILT. I'm prepared to release the correspondence on that. It will also show that no pressure has been exerted, I say in the direction of Mr Smeulders. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	The second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	No, first the question of unconstitutionality when this report is under consideration. The Minister can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	No, don't repeat it. Otherwise, I'll count it. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	It concerns Mr Van Gerven's first question, which he does not think has been answered, on constitutional...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	About constitution or unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	The government's obligation to provide information to the Chamber applies. That report is now public. You can debate this with the person in charge. It seems to me right that Mr Van Gerven should then, and not here in oral Question Time, raise the questions he has on this subject and comment on the assumptions behind it, namely that it would be a bad report or that there were conclusions in it which would be displeasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	The First Chamber postponed this afternoon's vote on the Environment Act until tonight in response to the conclusions drawn from the ILT report. We are curious whether this minister, in consultation with the minister who is probably now in the First Chamber, is prepared to send a letter to the Upper Chamber this afternoon. In that letter, he should ask for further postponement of the vote until we get to the bottom of the conclusions of the report and the course of events around it. I would therefore ask him to ask for a postponement of the vote in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	I do not think you can ask me to postpone voting. That really is a right of the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	That is what the Chamber is about and that also applies to the First Chamber, but that is the answer. We're going to vote ourselves later, but so is the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yes, but the Minister can make the request for postponement in a letter. I think that is a good procedure that can be followed. We're not doing this lightly. I understand that this is an exceptional position, but that vote is tonight and has not been postponed for nothing this afternoon as a result of this report. So that's the specific first and last question. We are not about the vote, but we can indeed call for it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	Then you made this point. Anyway, that's up to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	Yes. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you.
