ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u1	The subject is now the examination of legislative proposal 35468, amendment of the General Law on income-related schemes in connection with the extension of the hardness clause and the introduction of a hardness regime, a safety net provision, a basis for a compensation scheme as well as an O/GS meeting scheme (Awir Hardness Adjustment Act). I inform Members that in the event of a motion, you should read the text yourself and then put it on the table on your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Normally, legislative proposals are intended to change things in the future. The proposal now before us is mainly aimed at meeting parents who have in the past been in trouble through the operation of legislation, through ill-advised policies, through justice and possibly through other causes. Today we are not considering how things could have gone so horribly wrong in the past. Many investigations have already been carried out by the General Court of Auditors, the Donner Committee, which saw wonder as well as by many experts. Even the state's attorney's office has been called in. In a broader context, there is the recent unsolicited opinion of the Council of State on ministerial responsibility, as well as the investigation carried out at the request of the Second Chamber into the functioning of the General Administrative Service which selects the highest officials. That past will be discussed in detail. Today it is about helping the people who have been victims of injustice in that past. This Chamber does not like emergency legislation. I would like to argue in favour of making an exception in this case because of the importance of those affected. They must be helped as soon as possible. Of course, the First and Second Chambers will follow closely in the coming months how all this will happen. A first misstep has already been corrected. In the Committee on Finance, during the procedural preparation of this debate, there was a feeling that now is not the time to question the government in depth. That is why everyone has limited their speaking time today. In this context, I would like to ask the Members of this Chamber to follow a procedure which has become obsolete in recent years. If we were to vote on this bill, it would probably not be possible until next week. My appeal to Members is therefore: let us not vote. Let us approve this bill today without a vote. Then the Secretary of State can get to work right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Fentrop. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is difficult to read the comprehensive file on the child care allowance affair with dry eyes. There's a feeling of substitute evil, of shame, of disbelief, too. For duped parents, the image of a nearby government, a government that is best for you, is merciful and just, a government that looks after vulnerable citizens, is thoroughly destroyed. The trust of thousands of parents in the government has been violated. They feel hurt to the depths of their souls. My group understands that and feels their pain. The fact complex shows a chilly Tax Administration that has driven parents to despair across every human scale based on a passed zerotolerance ideology and excessive enforcement methods. They were mistakenly dismissed as fraudsters and profiteers. "Institutional bias," the Donner Committee called this collective failure of the service. We see a Tax Administration that has been involved in a tombola of errors, infringements, careless and incorrect termination of childcare allowances over the past 15 years. We're seeing a service that parents provided nightmares based on an all-or-nothing approach. The feeling of impotence controls their lives. Many parents have been in financial difficulties and have had to put themselves in debt in order to be able to pay undue or unreasonable recovery from the Tax Administration with significant consequences for less able, vulnerable parents and not to mention their children. The psychic damage is also considerable. Mr. Chairman. That is why my group welcomes the financial compensation scheme under consideration. That's what we have to do to the parents. It can't take away their pain, but hopefully it can. A fair settlement has been made for all the injured groups, including those whose parents were wrongly stamped with the "greater debt." The hardness arrangements and safety net provision for distressing cases are fair. The House of Representatives has done an excellent job here. It is now a question of a coulant and decisive implementation of the compensation scheme. That will require a lot of energy, including from the Secretary of State. Recently, communication with duped parents went wrong again. We can't let that happen again. It's got to go well in one go. We must also ensure that the implementation organisation is simple and transparent. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, the Christian Union Group fully agrees with this compensation scheme. We wish the Secretary of State every success and would like to give her the next mission. Be generous, be empathetic and be just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives has rightly taken a week extra time for a very good assessment, but this has resulted in the First Chamber having run out of time. The cabinet wants the law to enter into force on 1 July with the House of Representatives. That is what my group wants. But that puts the Senate before a diabolical dilemma: limiting its task to a marginal test in a flash debate of three minutes per group with votes a few hours later, or a plenary session at our last sitting next week, with the usual written procedure first. The first one was chosen. So be it. We are talking about a supplemental drama, which is an immense human and political drama of historical proportions. Here's what I'm seeing. 1. The CDA should never have come up with the ill-thought-out and wild plan to introduce a supplement scheme. However, this has been introduced by CDA Secretary of State for Finance Joop Wijn. It is known that I personally advised Joop Wijn: Joop, do not do that to the Tax Office. Tax officials have been trained to levy, control and collect taxes, not to distribute money and even less to do so uncontrolled, as was introduced later. That was asking for problems in implementation and, as it turned out, fraud. I told Joop to set up a separate IRS II if necessary. Calling in vain. 2. PvdA Minister for Social Affairs Asscher and VVD Secretary of State for Finance Wiebes should have intervened in 2014, and they did not. They are the main political ministers responsible for the allowance affair as it has emerged. 3. Weekers and Snel have resigned on their own. Also Wiebes could have honored himself. He loved himself with the copied tax reform and didn't even know about the departure scheme for 5,000 officials in December 2015. In January 2017, shortly before the elections, there was a strict emergency report by Borstlap and Joustra on the decision-making procedures at the Tax Administration, 173 pages. Wiebes looked at it and stayed seated. I argued in spring 2017 and often afterwards for two State Secretarys of Finance, when I was on the other side again, one for policy and legislation and one exclusively for the Tax Administration, for implementation. It was and is directed to deaf ears. Then the bill itself. My group greatly appreciates the great and continuing struggle of the Dutch MPs Renske Leijten and Pieter Omtzigt, who have also led to these legal arrangements for the child care allowance affair for the greatest possible group of victims. Helping the victims is a priority here. We also appreciate this Secretary of State, who is defending the complex proposal that is still carefully expressed here today, the Hardness Adaptation Bill. Remember that title; that will also be a historic legal title. As a 50PLUS Group, we wholeheartedly support this proposal. It is the beginning of a long road, similar to a hike to Santiago de Compostella. The bottom stone on that road will have to come up. The mini-survey of the House of Representatives on the supplement drama is the first step on that long road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Crone on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Parents must now be helped as quickly as possible, who have had to wait long enough and will unfortunately often have to wait. That is why we support our President's proposal to banish this and to stop doing so in this Chamber. All the more so because a fine amendment has already been adopted in the House of Representatives and the draft law is now beautiful and complete. Yet the start was already false last week. Can the Secretary of State explain again how that happened and whether that has been resolved? All the respect and appreciation for the years of battle, you might call it, that Pieter Ommzigt and Renske Leijten have conducted in the Lower House to settle all this better, but also to Trouw and RTL4, who because of their unrelenting spit work have gotten this misery over the table. 'Cause what the hell went wrong? And not only, as with many regulations, a little bureaucracy and a little trouble, but really. Because these bureaucratic inconveniences are everywhere, but there is a fundamental error in the system here. The market had to be the measure of things. The market price must be paid by the citizen, because then it knows what it is worth and the market is efficient. Best price-quality ratio, like they're TVs? Then we pump money around, then we compensate the parents and the tenants and the people with care costs via a surcharge, otherwise it will be far too expensive. So we're gonna set up a giant system. That is a mistake; I said it precisely so in the tax debate in December, and Mr Van Rooijen spoke about it. The búrger must be at the heart of the matter, the main focus must be on it. Then this is not the most efficient way, this is inefficiency of the market. And the market is laughing a little, because they can ask what they want, the government will pay the supplement anyway. That is why we have said since 2002 that this is a wrong system. Once you're in, no batch has butter on its head, because once the system is there, you keep turning buttons. That is why we really need a fundamental change now, in which provision and citizens are at the heart of the matter. For example, through direct subsidies to the institutions, to the health care institutions, to the childcare institutions or to the housing corporations. Mr. Chairman. It's been hell for the parents, all these years, to have to fill out all those forms over and over again. For a child care allowance there were sometimes up to 50 per year. With a small change of income or a different number of hours of work, one gets a few tens more or less. If you filled it out wrong, you're the victim. I understand, because it didn't have to be poverty and we didn't want to give anyone too little, but certainly not too much. Can the Secretary of State explain why no one has said before that this has to stop? The WRR has been advising on this for a long time, hasn't it? Let a new system meet those requirements. The system needs to be simpler. It must be based on trust and a positive human image rather than distrust. It has to be automatic, too. Even if you don't do anything, your income and benefits must be right. Those are the criteria of the WRR. That is why I am asking whether these system errors are going to happen now and whether the cabinet will come up with as many proposals as possible to resolve this. Why has a zero tolerance policy been pursued, with even discrimination and bias? That's what all of us have been looking at with the shiny red on our jaws. Mr Essers spoke about this too. The parents were seen as suspects and not as right holders. What's the status of the declarations? It has been a complete shock that there has been a need to report officials. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I am thinking first of all with sincere apologies to the parents who were victims of complex regulations and even of discriminatory and intimidating behaviour. They couldn't defend themselves. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that this is now over? We are giving her our full support. I look forward to her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr Crone. Mrs Geerding has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Bad laws are the worst kind of tyranny. This certainly applies to the current system of supplements with complex income-dependent schemes. It has been shown that everything that could go wrong in the past 15 years has gone wrong in its implementation. The House of Representatives is on top of it and has dealt very thoroughly with the present bill, which is in fact a recovery operation. It is legislation that results from the desire to provide clarity, to meet human standards and to restore confidence, as Mr Ferd Crone said. Certainly not an easy task, and I congratulate the Secretary of State on behalf of my group on her actions over the past week and wish her success and strength in the coming months. The concern of the VVD Group is that technical legislation is extremely complex in its implementation, while the regulations simply have to land with those who make use of it. We know that the past does not guarantee a good feasibility without errors. We also know it's a costly recovery operation. A cultural change at the Tax Office Supplements is urgently needed, but not easy and quick to realize. Would a general have pardoned this particular situation where the government has clearly made mistakes, not be obvious? There is a re-evaluation along five criteria at two levels; at research level and at individual level by the Tax Administration Supplements a committee of wise men, preceded by advice and guidance by a personal case manager who advises on applications for compensation and other recovery actions. Mr. Chairman. To what extent can it be guaranteed that this personal business manager advises Supplements independently of the Tax Administration in the interests of the injured? Are the arrangements sufficiently explanatory? For example, what is a good or a complete file? While the implementation test of the legislative proposal considers that the legislative proposal is feasible, it points out that, in the first instance, there is a need for limited ICT support because it cannot be implemented in time. It also mentions an additional risk of stacking the implementation of legislation in the supplement domain. To what extent do these risks slow down implementation? To what extent do these risks have an impact on the improved quality of service provided by the Tax Administration Fees that should be the result of this bill? Can the Secretary of State undertake that the arrangements are designed in such a way as to ensure that no one in the implementation of this law is, on balance, affected by this law, even if there is a combination of surcharges? Has the Secretary of State also considered allowing this legislation to apply to the other supplements such as the rent allowance and the care allowance? Does this new service method of handling requests based on this bill also affect the current regular surcharge process? Mr. Chairman. As stated at the beginning of this contribution: the VVD supports this bill, it will also see it as an interim solution, as a necessary recovery operation. What really needs to be done now in the shortest possible time is a thorough revision or rather the abolition of the present system of supplements. The VVD Group looks forward with interest to the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Geerdink. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Tax Administration officials agreed on packing day or described themselves as duo pitch and feathers. Officials who systematically stamped fraud on the basis of what is now so chic institutional bias, including on the basis of a second nationality. People who saw their children placed out of their homes because of the huge financial problems the Tax Administration had put them into. People who lost their homes, their marriage. Lives destroyed by a government that was not protective, not just and with an eye for human measure, but literally ruthless. All this under the responsibility of successive ministers and secretaries of state. Our group is pleased that the House of Representatives is going to try to get the bottom line in a mini-survey. That's what it takes. All the more so in view of the previous lack of information to Parliament, such as the deliberate withholding of crucial documents by the government. That too is a scandal that we must also consider in this part of Parliament. Maybe the Secretary of State can reflect on this, too. Mr. Chairman. If this bill, as my group hopes, is adopted today, there will not be a definitive end to this affair, but there will be satisfaction for many victims of this scandalous state-trading: recognition, compensation, justice. It has taken a long time, too long and of course it should never have come to this. But my group, too, is extremely pleased with that. The SP group is also very happy with the songs it has already been remembered how this law has improved considerably in the House of Representatives. Thanks to an amendment by my colleague Renske Leijten, a compensation scheme has been put in place for those many parents who had been financially constrained by the qualification of'set-up/greater debt'. This is a good time to praise the persistence of the duo Omtzigt and Leijten, without whose effort the road to justice for all these parents would have lasted much longer. Above all, I take my hat off for all these parents, who have gained the courage to organize themselves and thus have given a face to the fight against this brutal social injustice. It is now necessary to bring the present law into force as soon as possible and to begin its rapid but also careful implementation, hopefully not to make any more painful blunders, as was the case again last week when it became known that thousands of parents may have been wrongly rejected for compensation. Honestly, this raises a lot of questions. How did this happen? If this is the case over and over again, is it wise to have this whole recovery operation carried out by the Tax Administration itself? I'd like another response from the Secretary of State. In this respect, the work for this Secretary of State is far from finished, not least because it will have to take the first steps towards an alternative system. It is clear that the whole system of surcharges must be brought to an end, and that tax money must be pumped around. We wish the Secretary of State all the wisdom and strength in this work and above all hope that all these thousands of parents will soon end their suffering. It has to be about those parents and no one else. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We wish the Secretary of State for this work all the wisdom and strength and above all hope that all these thousands of parents will soon end their agony, because it must be those parents and no one else. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Van Strien, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In what has become known as the childcare allowance affair, large numbers of households have been in serious financial difficulties. A great deal has rightly been said about the errors in the Tax Administration. Less has been said about the fact that the system of allowances set up by politics has in itself also raised the greatest possible problems in the executive sphere in the Tax Administration. This applies not only to the childcare allowance. In the meantime, thousands of parents are still waiting for compensation for unduly claimed allowances and in a number of cases for compensation. The system is complicated. The settlement of the damage caused by the Tax Administration and the directors in charge of it as well. The present Act Awir provides the framework for proper settlement. The technical briefing received by the Finance Commission on 23 June, on the one hand, showed how complicated the problem is, but, on the other hand, gave rise to the expectation that this law would enable the problems to be adequately addressed. On this basis, we want the government to proceed as quickly as possible with correcting what has gone wrong. Therefore, the PVV Group does not have any further questions that could hinder rapid implementation and expects to start resolving the problems immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Essers, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Without exaggeration, it can be said that the child care allowance affair has plunged the Tax Administration into the biggest crisis since the Second World War. If this matter has been made clear, it is the importance of the rule of law and of an honest and reasonable government, but also how much an omnipotent government can finally help to destroy innocent citizens. It is not now the place to discuss this affair and the supplement system. There will undoubtedly be ample opportunity for this later this year. Lessons will have to be learned from the Tax Administration, but also from the Council of State's policy and administrative justice department. It is now important that every effort is made as soon as possible to do justice to the injured parents. My group therefore fully agrees with the proposal before us. It is, as it were, inversely proportional to the hardness and proportionality of the childcare allowance scheme. We therefore wholeheartedly endorse the intention of this proposal. Its impact is very bureaucratic. No less than five categories of disabled parents are distinguished from the receiving schemes. The implementation is in the hands of a Committee of Wise Men, an appeal committee, a Committee of Supplementary Compensation, an Advisory Board, a Parent Panel and a Child Panel. In addition, there is the Strategic Crisis Team, the Implementing Body recovery allowances and the rest of the implementation organisation around the childcare allowance. In view of everything that has happened, it is clear that the necessary suspicion exists as to how all this will work out in practice, even though parents will then be given a personal business manager who will assist them throughout the process. We are therefore happy to endorse the request of the House of Representatives to inform Parliament very frequently and regularly about the manner in which this bill is implemented after its entry into force. It goes without saying that in future full transparency should be essential in this matter. Mistakes must be reported and repaired. We would like to hear confirmation from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I have one other pressing concrete question at the moment about this bill that I would like to put to the Secretary of State. It appears that decisions have been taken on the right to childcare allowance on the basis of incomplete and/or incorrect files. My question is whether sound decisions are not invalid and, if so, what are the consequences, according to the Secretary of State? Mr. Chairman. We wish our esteemed former colleague a great deal of strength and success in dealing with this very difficult dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Mr Otten has given up his speaking time. That is why I give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group considers that the events in the Tax Administration regarding the child care allowance are unheard of. We therefore sympathize with the affected parents in this case and realize how much families have been affected and how profound this is for households. Trust in the Tax Administration and thus in the government as a whole has been seriously damaged by harsh legislation followed by harsh justice. These events require the present Hardness Adjustment Act Awir. Fairness and soothing are at the heart of this. The government must now make every effort to regain confidence. An important driver of trust is integrity. The integrity of the Tax Administration and the government as a whole is at stake. Integrity is about saying what you do and doing what you say, about transparency. It is precisely this provision of information from the government to both the affected parents and to the parliament that has been the subject of several debates in the Lower House and in the media in this dossier. An honest and therefore trustworthy government is reliable and decent. It keeps an eye on the importance of its citizens and this has clearly not been addressed by the Tax Administration/Applications. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. Restoring trust therefore requires a long-term, consistent policy that shows decency, transparency and compassion and is congruent in word and deed. The present bill is a basis for that. Harsh legislation is softened, fairness and decency are re-introduced. The only question we would like to ask the Secretary of State is how it intends to further demonstrate the integrity of the Tax Administration to the taxpayer and the surcharge recipient. We therefore welcome the fact that the Secretary of State is actively working with this bill to restore integrity and thus to build confidence in the government, especially for the affected parents in this case. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group will vote in favour of the bill, but would like to hear from the Secretary of State how it will restore integrity and regain confidence in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Finally, Mr Vendrik has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, it has already been recalled by colleagues, the whole child care allowance affair is a cause for deep embarrassment on the jaws. Institutional bias and now it appears that institutional racism has played an important role in the implementation of the childcare allowance and has caused many, many parents deep problems. It's obvious. If the government goes so wrong, then recovery is necessary, fair, fast, generous, with largesse and with great compassion and human measure for the parents affected by this. That goes without saying, and my group also strongly supports it. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two other issues that are inevitably on the agenda, but do not have to be discussed in detail today. The supplement system itself, at the time the political choice to introduce market forces into care, with supposed mandatory nominal premiums, with all the income consequences, i.e. the same with child care, has forced a supplement system in which today the effects are very visible. This can and must be changed, and this will have to be discussed in detail in the coming period. We need to end that supplement system. Mr. Chairman. A second point which my group attaches particular importance to is that in the whole supplementing affair it is easy to point the finger at wrong officials. We do not do that where, here, in democracy, we always have a duty to protect civil servants and to point out political and administrative responsibility. My group is also very pleased that the House of Representatives has launched the parliamentary mini-survey on who is responsible for the system, the derailment, the action of the Tax Administration. That's how we have such an affair to discuss here. As far as my group is concerned, of course, the recovery law that the Secretary of State is presenting to us today is in agreement. I have two questions on this point. As it turned out in a briefing last week, files at the Tax Office are not always in order. This has already led me to the question last week, and I ask him today to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs how this can be done. That is creepy, because if the files are not in order, then decisions taken at the time are not well reproducible. Then it becomes unclear why a certain judgment was reached by the Tax Administration at the time. This may also be delaying or complicating on recovery and compensation. Then how does it go on? I'll ask the Secretary of State. I assume that here too there is surgery with very large hair and largesse and that to the benefit of the doubt is the advantage for the parents and not for the State. Second question, finally. Can the Secretary of State confirm, I see it right, that when parents receive compensation under this law, a satisfaction, it remains entirely outside the tax sphere and is not involved in the ongoing settlement of other charges? Do I understand correctly that parents do not still have to pay back part of what they are actually entitled to because it is offset by current charges? Mr President, in conclusion, my group is in favour of the legislative proposal and I support Mr Fentrop's proposal to accept it without a vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you in a position to respond directly? Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. How long do you need? Fifteen minutes? Then we'll suspend until 10:38.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u23	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Supplements and Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a special honour to speak here in this Chamber about an unfortunate legacy of 15 years of childcare allowance. On 9 December last year I also spoke about this, but then I stood behind the chair, although in the other room. I was one of yours back then. I said something about this subject at the time. The theme was "control is good, trust is better." In this Chamber six months ago, I quoted this principle of the Tax Administration with the idea that the services should think and work from the human dimension, helpful, just, transparent and only strict and hard if there is no other way. We also discussed the child care allowance and the parents who had been in trouble by the action of the Tax Administration and the harshness of the schemes. Then the subject didn't let me go, but I wasn't nearly as well informed as I am now as Secretary of State. I have seen much more and heard much more about the misery caused by the supplement system in the parents. It is therefore so very important that the bill we are discussing today marks a clear start to a recovery process. Look forward by restoring the past. A period in which thousands of parents have fallen victim to a runaway hunt for fraudsters and regulations that were downright harsh for parents, terribly harsh. It is the same parents that we hope to be able to provide quickly; parents whose patience has often been put to the test for a long time. Although the laws and regulations are inevitably legal and tough, we place parents at the heart of their implementation. I will come back to the questions you asked about the complexity of the law. The core is that we must ensure that implementation remains simple. In order to be able to assist parents in the applications, they are given a personal business manager, and not every time a different person, but always one person who pays attention to the handling of the application and to the story of the parent. I am grateful to your Chamber that we can deal with this bill so incredibly quickly, even before the recess. In this debate and with this debate, we are taking an important step towards meeting the ambition of the cabinet, namely to deal with the past. The bill provides the right constitutional basis to treat equal cases equally. But this law, too, is mainly intended to repair the damage suffered by affected parents. In order to be able to deal with the particularly poignant situations that are still in the picture in the same way, we have not only amended the law, but we have also made a safety net clause in that law because we do not know everything yet. We know, in part, how parents have been affected in recent times, but there may also be new situations, and that is why we have made a safety net clause that will be included in a corresponding General Measure of Governance and Ministerial Arrangement. I am very pleased that we are going to work with a hardness clause in this law for the future, so that we can avoid unforeseen and poignant situations in the future. We couldn't do that on the basis of the current law. We are also currently working on a legislative proposal to improve the implementation of the allowances to be sent to the House of Representatives on Princess Day, a subject that some of you have already mentioned. We are also working on roadmaps to lay the foundations for the renewal of the surcharge system in the next cabinet period. With the legal basis, we can ensure that the recovery organisation can make the first payments of compensation in July, i.e. next month. The aim is to increase the amount of payout at a rapid pace in the months thereafter. We want to be the first to help parents who are most affected, because they need this compensation the most. As I said here last December: control is good, but trust is even better. For that, it is incredibly important for the Tax Administration to ensure that this recovery operation is a start to a new way of working, a human-sized way of working, generous, empathetic and just, as Mr Essers said this morning. Only tough and hard when there is no other way and with the greatest transparency. With the people of the recovery organisation, I realise that this bill is an important step forward, but it is only a first step. We're not here yet. My mission has only succeeded, and our mission will only succeed if we are able to implement this law properly. I am therefore happy to answer the questions that you have asked. I've got three blocks in total. A block about the bill itself, a block about the implementation and a block about other themes. I shall begin with the legislative proposal itself and with a subject that has been mentioned by a number of you, namely how it could have arisen in this way. Part of us know that by now. We know that, in particular, because of the work done by the Donner Committee. We know that because of the work done by very active MPs. We know that because of what happened in the media, but of course also because of the work in our house. We know there was a combination of factors. There was a very complicated surcharge system and a very complex law. I'll be right back there. It was mainly a law that did not allow many exceptions to be made for cases where exceptions would be appropriate. Luckily, in the new law, you can. We know that there was an atmosphere, especially in the period 2012-2014, in which the fight against fraud was an incredibly large theme in the debates in the House of Representatives and in society in general. Mostly, fraudsters were hunted, and people who did not belong to that group also got into trouble. We also know that it had to do with the fact that the decision-making and work of the Tax Administration was not in favour of many citizens. We also know that these decisions were settled by the judiciary. A combination of factors, of chasing fraud, of a law that was very hard, of many and strict looking at the execution and of the perseverance by the judges, caused a lot of parents to get into trouble. Further research will undoubtedly be carried out in the coming period. We know there's gonna be a mini-survey. I too will have to do some work to get more information. We know that there will be another report from the Dutch Data Protection Authority on the subject of ethnic profiling in the framework of, among other things, the surcharges. We know we're going to do further research on the subject of missing documents. I will try to answer the questions you have asked about this in a moment. In the block of the bill, I will answer the specific questions you have asked. Mrs Geerdink asked whether in this situation a general pardon would not be better than a set of rules in which parents could be compensated differently on the basis of different situations. I understand perfectly well that such an arrangement would be superattractive. We've been thinking about that, too. The idea is, of course, that it would be much easier to give parents one amount. The problem is that there are many different causes which have disadvantaged parents and, above all, that there are very large differences in the extent to which parents are disadvantaged, i.e. in the amounts involved. This is also apparent from the Donner Committee's report. There are parents who are confronted with the hardness of the scheme itself. There are parents who have been affected by the fact that the Tax Administration had a very harsh implementation practice on whether the parents themselves were chasing to find out exactly what went wrong. There are people affected by the qualification "set-up/greater debt." It is especially important to know that a lot of parents are really in very special situations. One amount could mean that one parent would get far too little compensation and the other parent would get too much. The latter would perhaps not have to be such a problem, but especially the parents who are very affected would probably get far too little compensation. Mrs Geerdink's second question was whether the balance of these schemes is going down. That is not the intention, of course. We want to ensure that the affected parents can rely on the most favourable arrangement with their personal business manager. Above all, we have ensured that we do not give money in compensation on the one hand and, on the other hand, take back money through the tax if you get a higher capital in box 3. Part of this also applies at municipal level. I'm also working with municipalities before that. A person may have a benefit or other kind of benefit which can be stopped or reduced if there is a larger sum at once. I would also like to try to organise such a practice that people do not have to return the money they get from us, either the money they have always been entitled to or supplemented by compensation or compensation, either with the Tax Office or with the municipality. A question has also been asked by both Mrs Geerdink and Mr Vendrik. They asked me if I had checked whether this law should also apply to other supplements. This bill is unique in that it concerns the recovery of problems arising from the childcare allowance. These arrangements are therefore very exceptional and are intended for the recovery operation. They apply partly but for a short period of time, for a number of years. So we can compensate all the parents and then it's finished. In this way, the precedent should also be limited. But we still know that this means that we are still working on the fact that there are also some other allowances, not for childcare, where we may still have to make compensation. That was also recognised by the Donner Committee. That is what we are going to do with my fellow executives who are responsible for the payment systems, other than the childcare allowance, which is covered by it. This concerns, for example, the rent allowance and the care allowance. That's what we're gonna do. I'd like to get back to you on that. Those were the points and questions I had noted with regard to the legislation itself. Then I'm gonna go to the playbook. A few more questions have been asked. One of the questions is about the complexity of the rules. How do you prevent a parent from entering a legal maze? Above all, it is important that we really needed a complex system of rules in order to actually compensate for the various issues that parents face. We are talking about a compensation system, a review, a toughest meeting, an ogs meeting, a safety net clause and so on. In addition, there is a multitude of committees that ensure that this is properly implemented. The core thing with us is that the parent is central. The parent gets his personal companion and it should also be very clear that this personal supervisor is acting for the parent and is not also co-evaluator of the file. We'll keep that strictly separate. That personal evaluator has only two major tasks. The first is to listen to the story of the parent, to find out what happened, to see what material needs to be collected to further underpin that story, especially from the Tax Administration, but certainly from the parent, so that there is the best possible arrangement for this parent. In the process, in that execution, parents should not have to shop through all these different arrangements either. We want this to be done at once, in a very clear and transparent way, so that parents are in fact made in a single conversation on this subject also recommendations have been made by the National Ombudsman to be able to hear what kind of regulation they can benefit from. Of course, they always have an appeal and an appeal open to them. But it must be clear to them that they are being helped as quickly and as well as possible on the way to the arrangement that is best for them. This also depends on the question raised by Mr Vendrik and Mrs Geerdink as to whether the arrangements are sufficiently explanatory. The arrangements remain complex. We have also noticed this in the debates with the House of Representatives. I'm sure you understood that in the technical briefing. But the intention is mainly to make it simple for the parents. They have a counselor, someone they're talking to. Then they can be compensated with us in a generous way. The subject of the whole dossier is also relevant. Some of you asked for that, too. In many cases, we are talking about longer ago. The parents often don't have the files anymore. The IRS may not have all the data anymore either. Then, of course, it is important that the assessment should be made on the basis of the same human measure I mentioned earlier, on the basis of plausibility and not on the basis of the last receipt. In addition, the situation we set up was sometimes wrongly imposed, so the parents suddenly had to repay the amount and were not eligible for a payment arrangement. The burden of proof lies there with us. So if we can't prove it anymore, then in any case it's wrongly set up/greatly blamed. In gathering as much information and support as possible, we will of course also look not only at parents and ourselves, but also at banks and childcare organisations, for example, to complete the files as much as possible. We will, of course, have a good look in the coming period to see if this performance is going to work. We are going to ensure that this implementation is in such a way that the various people who assess the dossiers can discuss with each other how they will deal with that situation in what circumstances, on the one hand, to establish the human dimension and, on the other hand, to ensure that as much as possible is done in equal cases. I have just said a few words about the distinction between the case-handler and the evaluator. The case manager informs the parents, listens to the parents and collects information. Another colleague is doing the decision-making. This is monitored by various committees. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the recovery organisation and why it could not be carried out by someone other than the Tax Office. I would like to stress that the Tax Administration must play a role anyway, because the information is with us, the arrangements are ours and we must also ensure that it is done. Of course, we must also be the ones who are able to make the files for the parents. The fact that a mistake came up last week, I consider an incredibly false start. That shouldn't happen anymore. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Essers spoke about it. Of course, we don't want that. Does that mean that the recovery operation in dealing with those perhaps 20,000 files will never cause anything to go wrong again? We cannot promise that in advance, but it is extremely important that we do everything we can to prevent something from going wrong. Above all, however, we must also do what some of you have pointed out: ensure that we are transparent about our facts, reporting them and restoring them so quickly. The intention is therefore that we in the Tax Administration set up a separate, separate recovery organisation that ensures that employees work in a good way, respectful, solution-oriented and proactively. We should not only work from the perspective where we ensure that people are eligible for the right scheme and that we are happy to point it out, but above all I hope that cooperation with municipalities will enable us to help parents a step further and make a fresh start in their lives. In the many, many conversations I have had with parents and are still having, I noticed that parents not only got into trouble because of the fact that they had to pay back our money, but also because there were often consequences problems, for example because their relationship broke, a house had to be sold, a rental house could no longer be financed, or because children were in trouble. I think it is extremely important, together with municipalities, to see how we can solve and tackle these problems as much as possible, so as to give parents a fresh start in their lives. Mrs Geerdink asked if there were any risks that could lead to delays in implementation, in particular because there are still many committees, many regulations, a lot of accumulation. Of course, we intend to work as much as possible and as quickly as possible. You also talked about the necessary IT adjustments or information provision adjustments. As far as I am concerned, it is really a matter of setting it up as soon as possible, but we also know that the overall handling of this problem will take about two years. Here, of course, we have to ensure a really good balance. On the one hand, therefore, it must be done quickly, especially for the parents most affected. On the other hand, it must also be done carefully to ensure that there are no errors, for example by handling too much manually or by ensuring insufficient controls on the execution of the controls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u25	I'm thinking about what the Secretary of State said about the legality of decisions taken. Of course, the burden of proof lies entirely with the government, but suppose that in the past there has been a zero decision on the basis of which parents had to repay the child care allowance. If the file is gone now, we must try to show from all possible sources what exactly has been done, but you can't fix a non-legal decision, can you? Or do you see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u26	I see that as follows. Suppose a parent did indeed receive such a qualification set-up/greater debt based on the fact that the childcare allowance was discontinued and then had to pay back. In many cases, these parents still owe us and that information is still there. We still have an overview of what has happened and what we have left over older years. We are going to listen very carefully to the story of the parent, we are going to look at what information is still available at childcare organisations and then, in part, we will indeed have to decide on-not complete and incomplete information. But we cannot say: yes, because those files are no longer there, from all those years ago, we cannot compensate you anymore. In my view, that would be too harsh, too fast and simply not good, because we know that many of these parents have gotten into trouble and because we can often find out the source of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u27	But on the other hand, you could also say: if there is no file anymore, we will give you the same thing. You can reason like that, can't you? If you reason from largesse and as a government are so short-lived, then I think you should also admit and that the allowance must be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u28	For us, it is important to know if someone has had children, for example. We even know that in the file that is already at an advanced stage of processing, that CAF 11 dossier, parents were also the subject of research who have applied for childcare allowance but have no children at all. In such cases, I do not think it is wise to actually apply compensation, because then someone has never really been entitled to that allowance. But indeed, we will have to find out what information is left. We will not have to make endless quests of that either, we must do that fairly quickly. It is therefore up to us to ensure that we deal with this fairly generously. In most cases so far, there is still such information there is not a total missing file on the basis of which we could act. But once again, we also listen very carefully to the parent, we also look very closely at what the parent has and what we can get from other sources. We hope to be able to reconstruct in such a way that we will indeed remain generous in the recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u29	Please continue your speech, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u30	I would then like to move on to a subject which was discussed by Mr Essers and Mr Van der Voort, namely how I would like to work again to restore integrity and confidence. Of course, that is a big issue, because it is obvious that these parents have lost faith in the Tax Administration after all. That is partly because of what has happened to them, the fact that they have not understood either, and often do not understand to this day, how they could have been treated in this way and that they also did not understand and understand why they have not been listened to, why documents they have sent are no longer available or have not been used. So there's still a lot to do. I believe that there are a number of issues, first of all, of course, the generous and rapid implementation of this regulation, but also transparency and integrity, and putting parents' trust first. Trust, like I said, that's more important than just checking the last receipt. We must, of course, ensure that this is done in a way that is perfectly understandable to parents. That's kind of complicated. Because as I just said, I speak a lot of the parents. I notice that their confidence is so low that they are often unable to receive words that are well-intentioned. So there's really a lot of work to do to help and guide them. This is also very variable, because some parents have already moved on with their lives, have been able to leave their debts behind, want to know how it happened and be compensated quickly. And other parents are still in big trouble right now, still have a lot of trouble living life a little well every day. They have financial problems, they have problems with their work or otherwise. And not least, for all these parents, the theme of recognition is incredibly important. I'd really like to work on that, too. The recognition for all their friends and family who have thought for years: if you have problems with the Tax Office, then it must be a bit up to you. That turned out not to be right or true at all. That is also something we want to do as much visible as possible. Whether that is in the form of a letter or otherwise, we don't know exactly yet, but we mainly also deal with the parent panel, so people who help and guide us, the parents who are involved because they are themselves duped, think about how we're going to do it. But the start is mainly in that transparent, honest, good execution and especially the centralisation of the parent in that process. Questions have also been asked about the issue of culture in the Tax Administration. As many of you know, there are already ongoing pathways to tackle culture in the Tax Administration, to ensure that a culture is created in which human size, legal status and an open and secure way of working with an antenna for needs in society and integrity are central. It is incredibly important that we continue to implement that trajectory that has been launched in the coming period. This new way of working, this new culture, will therefore have to be at the heart of the recovery organisation. But we know there's still a lot of work to be done. We also know that working on culture in a situation of COVID-19 is obviously complicated, because people are mainly at home and not working with each other. So we need to pick that up as soon as possible as soon as possible. We have also taken the first steps with the summit of the Tax Administration and the Ministry, but there is still a lot of work to be done. Another question that has been asked about this, namely, as a result of the declaration that has been made, of course, does not always make it simple. Because, yes, it was necessary and it is right that we have made the report on the basis of the investigation we have carried out. But you have to imagine whatever this means to the staff of the Tax Office, and certainly for the people too, there are some 30,000 people who, in all conscience, do their job and want to continue doing it. It's complicated for them, too. They also sometimes feel unsafe in assessing the normal, "blue" side of the Tax Administration or in the context of childcare allowances. So that's where it takes a lot of work to work together to see how we can restore the past in a good way, but also continue to work in the daily situation. There were further questions from Mr Vendrik on the dossiers, but I think I have already answered them. Then the report was asked to keep you as a Chamber well informed about what is happening. Of course, I have promised the same to the House of Representatives, and I would very much like to do the same to you. I think it is very important that we closely monitor how this recovery operation is going, which is going well in it, whatever is not going well in it, and however we can ensure that we can restore everything that is not going fast and well there as soon as possible. But also to share information with each other on topics in the coming period that we know are still to come, for example the theme of ethnic profiling. Did that happen, yes or no? We have already seen that at least there are signs of this in the report of the ADR that was released together with Donner. But it is especially important to check whether this has had effects on parents and, if so, what this means in the context of this recovery operation. The same applies to documents of which parents have indicated in large numbers that they have been offered to us, often in writing, but also by e-mail. Information has been sent by them or even offered personally and in many cases that information can no longer be traced from us. We are not only trying to figure out what that means for this arrangement, but above all how we can find out how it has played a role. Because that is of course important not only for restoring the past but also for the future, to ensure that it is repaired properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u31	As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State spoke in good terms about the way in which incomplete dossiers will be operated in the context of this recovery. Fine. My question was also: how can that, incomplete files? Where exactly did they come from? Well, I think the Secretary of State said that maybe she could clarify something else that she's looking at. I would like to hear more details and explanations about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u32	That's what I'm gonna do. Part of it is incomplete that it concerns matters from a very long time ago. The child care allowance law came into force in 2005 and the Tax Administration no longer has a duty to preserve everything from that time. So part of us will have to work with the information we can find about that time. With regard to those incomplete files, the problem is mainly with the information that parents provided when we wrote them saying that they were not entitled to childcare allowance or that we thought they were not entitled to it because they had not submitted certain receipts or because they had not submitted a contract with the childcare organisation; that sort of thing. Many of these parents have told us, personally and also many of my colleagues, "But I did. When I received that letter, I did indeed send my information. At first I made a copy and sent it and I sometimes brought it by myself. If it was asked for again, I just gave the originals." We have a great deal of unrecoverable documents. That is, of course, very serious, because that has not only led us to take the decision to stop and recover the supplement. The law was also such that because of that one missing receipt you had to pay back all year. Moreover, the information was there, but somehow it had not ended up in the right box, in the right file or whatever. That is what we are doing right now, because I want to be able to understand better how that could have happened. I don't know if we can do that all the way up. We are doing this ourselves, together with the archives service, not only to get the information out but also to learn from it very well, so that we know how to deal with information provided by citizens in the future. It cannot, of course, be the case that information received by the Tax Administration does not reach the right place or may even disappear altogether. I will continue to inform you about this in the progress reports. Again, I do not have all the details on this at the moment. Then I'll move on to the other block. Mr Crone asked about the declaration. I said something about the effect it has on employees of the IRS. Mr Crone asked when we would see more of that. There I am very much dependent on the Public Prosecutor's Office, because they need to investigate whether and how they intend to deal with this issue. The report deals with two crimes: professional discrimination and hoarding. We are, of course, cooperating as much as possible. Above all, I hope that it will come out as soon as possible, because that helps primarily in the processing of parents and also helps to take the right steps within our service and to ensure that the cultural change we want to see is implemented as well. Unfortunately, I cannot comment at this time on when there is more information, but of course I will continue to include this in the progress reports. Then I move on to the future of the system. Many of you, including Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Crone and Mr Vendrik, have said something about the complexity of the surcharge system. I think you've all said something about it. It's a very complex system. This is basically because we want to create a very precise and direct system, especially for the childcare allowance. There are many foundations. The exact number of hours you work is relevant, as is the exact number of hours your childcare takes. For some people this means that a lot of information has to be shared with the Tax Administration during the year to ensure that you get the right amount of surcharge. It turns out that it is very complicated and complex, because about 80% of all supplements are repaired afterwards. Then either we pay back or the parent has to pay back. It is very important that we do something about this, especially since we are talking about very large amounts of child care payments that parents will have at their disposal which they cannot be entirely sure are ultimately entitled to. This uncertainty means that some parents may no longer apply for a child care allowance or do not make sufficient use of the opportunity to go to work and let the children go to care, etcetera, etcetera. So there's a lot to it for this cabinet to do something about. In my introduction I said something about it: already during this period we are going to try to simplify the system as much as possible. One of the measures appropriate to this is the sharing of information with childcare organisations, just as the Tax Administration also shares information with employers. So we know better how many hours someone has taken and at least that variable becomes less exciting at the end of the year. Hopefully we will have to pay less in the future or pay less in the future. In addition, this cabinet intends to redesign the whole system. To this end, a motion was also adopted in the Lower House, with a unanimous vote. It asked that the system be redesigned in the broad sense of the word. Then it is not just about childcare, but also about care, rent and the child-related budget. I look forward to working on that. Luckily, the studies are already running. In the end, it must result in a system that works much better, that has much more human dimension and that may also look very different. Above all, it should no longer contribute to the problems that we are now facing and which we are now trying to repair with incredible effort and incredibly much suffering from parents and certainly with a huge financial impact on our government. I think those were the questions you asked. I thank you for all the attention and time and, of course, for the encouragement of my colleagues and myself to get to work as quickly as possible. I hope I will not disappoint you and, above all, I hope I will not disappoint the parents who are entitled to rapid and good compensation for the enormous problems they have encountered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Secretary of State. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u34	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
