ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u1	We are starting oral Question Time today with Mrs Van Brenn's question on behalf of 50PLUS to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment on the pension agreement. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is the long-awaited letter that will take a lot of time to understand everything. Until now, everyone had to do it with five leaves and trade unionists had to sign on that base at the cross. I don't understand! Like you're not talking about the biggest pension capital in the world, but about a new cycle path. What did the Minister think? Just redistribute 1,500 billion and then quickly go on vacation? That is why, Mr President, I would like answers to the following questions. Is it true that pensions would have been increased almost every year if the new system had already been introduced in 2007? Is it true that the agreement does not compensate pensioners and other participants for this missed indexing? Is it true that pension rights in the new scheme are valued on the basis of paid premium and return? Are you going to calculate exactly how much premium they have paid and how much return they have made for pensioners? If you do not go for pensioners or do not want to recover how much premium they have paid and how much return they have made on this, but base their rights on the current pension rules, then that is a merciless expropriation. I'd like an answer to that. And do I understand that pensioners but also elderly people who are not retired are forced to accept a much lower part of their pension fund's return for the rest of their lives? Mr President, let me show the Minister where I got that from. That's Table 2.1 of the Central Planning Office. Mr President, those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. A year ago, the social partners and the cabinet concluded a pension agreement. This was an agreement on the main elements of the reform of the pension system, including agreements on the second pillar pension, the AOW age, sustainable employability and the heavy professions. We discussed this agreement intensively for a year, and that was completed last Friday, 12 June. As you can see, yesterday I sent the documents to the Chamber at the request of the Chamber. There are a lot of technical analyses underneath. I refer to the CPB's overdrafts, the pension federation's overdrafts and a headline note. It is a huge amount of technical information that is also very difficult to read out, because it often requires a technical explanation, which I would like to give when the overall package is presented. Your room has requested that. That is why I sent all the documents to your Chamber yesterday, so that you can read the main notes and all the reports. Then there are Mrs Van Brenn's specific questions. Is it true that pensions would have been increased almost every year if the new system had already been introduced in 2007? That is, of course, very difficult and difficult to say. I didn't get that ready, because you'd have to check it out. But I think that if we had introduced the new system in 2007, returns would indeed have been distributed more quickly to the participants. That is what I have always said, namely that setbacks are also translated more quickly into lower benefits, because there are no longer any buffers in a future system. In the current system, you have to go to a coverage rate of 130% before you can be fully indexed. One of the agreements we made last year in that pension agreement was that we no longer have those buffers in the future system, so that returns can actually be paid to the participants rather than to the pensioners but also to the workers. The second question was about the missing indexing. Yes, that's a very difficult question to answer separately. In general, I think that the new system is indeed leading to faster indexation, because you do not have to build up those buffers. On the other hand, this pension agreement has been discussed for 12 years. It started with the Goldwaard Commission in 2009. Meanwhile, several reports and SER opinions have been produced for a long time. Last year we took a big step and now again. You can't just compare one system to another. Then there is Mrs Van Brenk's third question: are pension rights the premium paid plus the return? No, at the moment, the total pension fund is divided into members' claims on that pension fund. In my proposal, we are going to go to a system where it becomes clear to individual participants how much premium you have deposited, how much return you have earned and what that means for your pension benefits. This makes the system more personal and transparent. All of Mrs Van Brenk's questions include a comparison of the old system with the new system, which is still to be introduced and which remains to be discussed with the Chamber in the legislation and transition from the current to the new system. That transition will take place in the years 2022 to 2026. So we're still gonna talk about it a lot. Such a simple equation is simply not easy to make. Is it expropriation? No, I don't think so. We have agreed to turn the current system into a new system. It should be; otherwise it is not legally feasible, otherwise people will rightly go to court: my property will be taken away. Of course you can't. So, yes, there are a lot of questions. In the coming period, we are going to discuss all these elements with each other, including Parliament. These countries must be in legislation and this legislation must, of course, be adopted by Parliament. This is a broad agreement, which is the main thrust of last year's pension agreement. If everything goes well and if the grassroots consultation of the FNV goes well, it will be converted into several separate pieces of legislation: a new pension contract, the AOW age, the heavy-duty occupational scheme. I'll discuss all of that with your room. That legislation must be dealt with by both chambers of the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have not yet had an answer to the question of whether pensioners should do so for the rest of their lives with a much lower return. Do they have a choice? Can the Minister indicate whether discounts are excluded until 2026, even when entering? What happens at the time of boarding if the coverage rate is not 100%? Will it be reduced immediately or will this discount be spread out in ten years' time? The minister says he's gonna turn it around nicely. Is that against the nftk, at the interest rate of almost zero? He just recognized that there were returns made all these years. Who do all these returns go to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u6	These are four random-wrapped questions being fired at me. I really need a little more time to answer that. Should pensioners take into account a lower return? What has been agreed is that pensioners want stability in their benefit phase. That's what they often report themselves. In the new system, returns are allocated age-dependently. Young people take more risk and therefore get greater returns, positive and negative. As people are older, more security is bought in, so more is invested in bonds. This is precisely in order to prevent too much fluctuation in pension benefits. That is also what many pensioners say: they want a stable pension. That's one. I can say a lot more about it, but that is complicated in Question Time. Are discounts for 2026 excluded? No, because we don't know what the world economy is doing. We don't know what the stock markets are doing. What I can say is that the discounts in the current system, in the nftk system, would be much more substantial than in the new system. That's two. Is it necessary to change to 100% coverage? No, technically, that's not necessary. There must be a balanced and fair transition from the current system to the new system. Then you come in the technique that you could actually go between a coverage rate of around 95%, but also from 110% balanced to the new system. But all this requires a technical explanation. I would like to give it to your Chamber, but Question Time may not be the most appropriate time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u7	Perhaps for your information: there was a general discussion planned, I understand, or there would be a debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u8	It's been postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u9	... but that's been postponed again. Since it is a subject that concerns a lot of people, we have chosen to let the question pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u10	I understand that, and I also understand that it is a politically sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u11	Exactly. And technically, it's too complicated to handle it in a few minutes. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u12	I believe that the Minister's statement that all older people do not want to take a risk, but that there is also a return on risk, a firm statement. I find the fact that they have no choice in this matter very serious. The Minister acknowledges that there has been a return for all these years and that a lot of people have not benefited from it. It's in the jars. There is no other conclusion for us than that it is crystal clear for pensioners: all those who are now 77 years of age or older have not had an increase for 12 years. Following the introduction of the new system, the indexing perspective remains poor, as every advantage is paid out in ten steps. That kind of plan doesn't make sure there's no more trust in politics, does it? Because how many people who retired in 2007 are still alive in 2030? A few percent that won't be able to enjoy anything. Mr President, this 'compensation for lost years' sounds like a claim, and that is what we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mrs Van Brenk's first question is: do all the elderly not want to take a risk? No, we didn't say that either. However, there is an exchange between risk taking and volatility of distribution. There's a trade. Then you can still achieve a higher expected return with risk taking and with that a higher pension benefit, but they are two sides of the same coin. If you accept more risk, the risk of setbacks is also greater. We have to be honest about that all the time. But more generic is the system that as you get closer to the retirement date, you often want to have a more stable benefit. Secondly, the return that has been achieved in recent years is also in those pension pots. That is also in the billions that are reserved for pension benefits. We are going to transfer it nicely from the current system to the new system. That has to be done properly, otherwise it just won't last in court. That must also be done legally properly. That's part of the transition plan we worked out. Thirdly, pensioners in the new system are better off than pensioners in the current system. This is also apparent from the CPB figures that became public last Friday and were sent to your Chamber yesterday. That has everything to do with getting a faster return. But again, it seems very good to me to really take the time for this and to have a good exchange of views with your Chamber. It's a lot of technique and it's very, very complicated. Then it is incredibly important that we take the time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Then I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr De Jong van de PVV, Mr Gijs van Dijk, PvdA, Mr Azarkan van DENK, Mr Van den Berge, GroenLinks at least that is what I thought, but I will cross that line. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, Mr Van Otterloo; no, he also continues. I think he's on a walk, so he doesn't have to be on the list. Mr Van der Linde of the VVD. All right, I'll give Mrs Marijnissen the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister says: it's a lot of technique and it's very complicated. I have a simple question for the Minister. It's about whether pensions are going to rise with prices. A lot of people have experienced over the past period that prices did rise, but not their pension. So they went backwards. It was our commitment to achieving the pension agreement, together with trade unions and elderly organisations, that pensions should go up with prices. So my clear question to the Minister is: does this pension deal settle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u16	The credit transfers from the Central Planning Office which became public last Friday and which I sent to your Chamber yesterday show a comparison between the current system we have and the new system we have developed. It is expected to do so because, of course, they are all forecasts for the future; there is a great deal of uncertainty in all these sums, because the economy is uncertain that current pensioners and older workers are better off in the new system than in the current system. Why? Because pensions can be increased more quickly if returns are not too high. That is the sum made by the Central Planning Bureau and made clear. It is true that pensions are moving faster with prices. Is there a full indexing? No, you can't say that, because returns are made on the investments that pension funds have. They are distributed more rapidly to the participants in the new system, not only the pensioners but also the workers. They are not used to build buffers, as happens in the current system. That is the fair comparison between the current system and the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u17	The Minister says that pensioners would be better off in the new system. But my point was that pensioners have not seen their pensions rise with prices in recent years. I hope that what you're about to arrange is going to do so, but I can't hear you say it. I hear you saying that guarantee cannot be given. I am very sorry, once again because so many people have seen how things have been over the past few years. The pension jars are overcrowded, yet people's pensions did not rise with prices. When I hear this, it seems more like we're going to gamble with people's pensions, depending on the returns. Guarantees cannot be given. This pension deal seems to me to be a problem rather than a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u18	I absolutely do not agree with Mrs Marijnissen. It's clear. We have a funded pension system of EUR 1,500 billion of assets, which is invested on stock exchanges, in shares and bonds. This is also the case in the current system. This therefore depends on the returns achieved on the stock markets and on the bond markets. That is no different in the new system. What is different is that, unlike in the current system, the returns obtained are allocated to the participants rather than to the current system. This will also make it easier to translate economic development, which can be positive or negative, into pension benefits. That is exactly the point Mrs Marijnissen mentioned. Returns have been realised in recent years. Pensioners didn't see them in their pension benefits. No one understood that. That is why we want to change the system, precisely because of the point Mrs Marijnissen refers to. This is one of the main reasons why we need to move towards a new system that is more consistent with the modern labour market, but that is also more transparent, fairer and easier to explain than the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u19	Hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people are worried about the future of their pensions. That's not so crazy either. For years there has been no indexing, while there is EUR 1,500 billion in cash. But also with the transition to the new pension system, people are faced with a reduction. We read it in the newspaper: "reduction threatens to change to a new pension." My appeal and my only question to this Minister is to remove those discounts, not only at the end of this year, but also if there is a possible transition to a new pension system. Can this minister promise that he'll make a line today because of all these pension discounts? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u20	I have agreed with the social partners, in the overall agreement that we concluded with each other, that the same rule will apply for 2021 as for this year, for 2020. This means that a pension fund, because of the particular economic conditions caused by the coronavirus, does not need to be reduced to cover above 90%. Why did we agree to that? I want to keep pension funds from sinking further. If you go further down, the risk is that as a pension fund you won't be above Jan. That's one. Two. We have a funded pension. This depends on the returns achieved on the stock markets and bond markets. If there is an economic crisis, as at the moment with the corona crisis, then it has an effect on investments. I cannot give guarantees that discounts will not take place in the future. I cannot guarantee that, because the stock markets are moving as a result of economic developments. It is true that the reductions are smaller than in the current pension system and in the ftk system that we now have. If we applied those rules to the current situation, there would be much greater discounts. This has to do with the certainty and rules laid down in 2003 and 2006 in what is then called the financial review framework, the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u21	Let us be clear here that for the Labour Party the support of the members of the FNV for the pension agreement is essential, so we will have to wait and see. It's about pensions, so it's about a lot of technology right now, and it has to be. But I have a rather simple question to ask the Minister who deals with a lot of plasterers, policemen, port workers every day, namely: can I make the choice because of my health, because I have a hard job, to be able to stop working earlier? This is an important part of the agreements in the pension agreement for the Labour Party. Will the Minister make it possible for this group to make agreements in collective agreements this year, so that people who have very hard work can now make the choice to leave early because of their health?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u22	What I have agreed with the social partners is indeed exactly this point: the possibility from 1 January 2021 to be able to stop working for three years for the AOW age if you have a heavy occupation, provided that the employer pays along, the employee also pays a little bit along and the government pays along. The latter, which is paid by the government, we have insured by abolishing the RVU tax, the early retirement scheme, to an amount of €21,000. In addition, we have made a substantial amount available to enable a financial concession in practice. So yes, that is part of the total agreement and I stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u23	The Minister speaks of a fairer system, fairer and affordable. One of the pain points concerns the group of 35- to 55-year-olds. The CPB has calculated that those losses are 55 billion, as early as 2018. In fact, the Minister says in his letter: let it be something between employees and employers to correct this through collective agreements. Is that realistic? To what extent will that contribute to filling that hole? It does not feel fair if that group gets so much worse and is expropriated on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u24	A very fair question from Mr Azarkan. In the CPB's figures sent to your Chamber yesterday, this is indeed made clear. You can see that the whole category would have a disadvantage between 35 and 55 in abolishing the average systematics. But what is also made clear is that in the transition from the current system to the new system, you can compensate for those negative effects. How is that possible? Because of the new system, the expected pension result for young people is higher, but also for pensioners, as I have just explained to Mrs Van Brenk. Because the expected results are better, there is money available in the system to compensate the middle group, say my group, because I am 43 years old. The Central Plan Bureau has made sums of money for this, and that has also been done for twelve pension funds. Those sums show that it can be done. Of course, it always depends on the departure situation, because a fund with a coverage rate of for example 120% finds it easier than a... No, it's the other way around. It's easier to compensate than if you're undercover, but mostly Modo can. A special category is the DC scheme. Those are the insured schemes. Those are people who already have a premium scheme and have a progressive standard; sorry for the technique. We saw in the sums that it was very difficult to compensate that group. That is why we have decided to leave everything to the old for that group, precisely to prevent them from being touched by the abolition of the average systematic. For example, if you change jobs, you have to pay close attention to what that means for your pension. But by not abolishing the progressive standard, the problem does not arise for that group. We have looked carefully at both elements and are convinced that compensation can be properly designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u25	We hear the pension file is very complicated, very technical with a lot of calculations. At the same time, however, the fate of many pensioners and workers building up pensions is now in the hands of the FNV member parliament. That's what I'm worried about. Because if it's so complicated, then you need very good information to make a good decision. Can the Minister assure us that the FNV member parliament has all the information, all the calculations it needs to find something not on the underbelly, on the feeling, but actually to come to a proper consideration whether this new system is better than the old system, yes or no? Do they have everything they need to make that decision later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u26	They already did. The negotiators who have sat at my table are the presidents of the trade unions and the presidents of the employers' organizations, including the pension experts of the trade unions and the employers' organizations, of course, had all these resources at their disposal during the negotiations. So all the documents I sent to your Chamber yesterday were also available to trade union negotiators. On 12 June, our talks ended, the results ended, and the grassroots consultation began. I have also seen that different parties have filled in in their own way. I've seen webinars, like the VCP. The chief negotiator of the CNV has gone through all kinds of rooms to explain it. It's still very complicated stuff. You can see that from yesterday's pieces. It's very technical. But all these elements were available to the parties in the past week. What I thought was decent was to send the pieces as a total package to your Chamber at the time the grassroots consultation was completed. Otherwise, there would have been some kind of strange situation that the documents were available to the public, but not to your Chamber, and I would have a problem with the President. Eventually, those sums became public on Friday. The Chamber then asked Mr Van Kent, I believe, to make the documents public. That's why I did it yesterday afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u27	I hear the minister say "total package." We got that. We saw the bills that looked good. Now, of course, we run the risk of the Members' Parliament finding something other than yes or no. Is there still a chance that everything will be broken open again and that we will leave everyone in uncertainty in the Netherlands for another year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u28	There are two points. I also sent a letter to your Chamber yesterday saying: 'These are the documents behind it, but I will only come up with my cabinet letter, my appreciation of the overall package, when the grassroots consultation is completed'. As it now looks like, that is on 4 July, when the FNV's member parliament meets. That's one. Then two. I also said, last Friday, "This is it. This is the package that the employers, the unions and I have negotiated over the past year, including all agreements on the heavy-duty professions, the AOW age and on the pension contract." And that is still ahead of the FNV's supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u29	First Mrs Van Brenk, then Mr Omtzigt and then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mr President, I have two more questions. One. There are also pieces circulating about the fact that this agreement presents quite considerable risks for compulsory obligations. There is a paper by Professor Van Meerten of Utrecht University. Can the Minister guarantee that this is not the case, that this obligation will last for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u31	What we did was let Professor Erik Lutjes assess last year's pension agreement, the agreements made in it, including the two contracts, the contract for the Improved Premium Scheme and the new contract. He wrote a paper on whether the obligation is sustainable. In addition, of course, officials from my department have done the same exercise. In the past, the Council of State has written something about it. The overall package is in the main note. The legal analysis of the new contract on the obligation, the sustainability and the value of old rights is, I say, out of my mind in Chapter 8 of the main note. Attorneys, especially Professor Erik Lutjes, have taken a close look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u32	The second question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u33	I would like to come back again to the average systematiek. That cost 100 billion at first. After that, 60 billion was mentioned. This account is now fully deposited with the members of the pension fund. We see that VCP has a comment on that. The question is whether there's room left in this part of the contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u34	Three answers. One. Over the last ten years, various amounts have been circulating on the cost of abolishing the average. In 2010, that was about 100 billion. Later it became 60 billion. Now it's a little less. That has to do with the fall in interest rates. If interest rates fall, the problem of abolishing the average is smaller. So that's one. That is why different amounts are circulating on this point. The second point. It's not a bill. It is a division between the members of a pension fund. I have just explained to Mr Azarkan that abolishing the average premium for groups 35 to 55 means a minus, and for the others a plus. What we have now agreed is that the minus is compensated by the pluses. In fact, it is not about costs, but about the distribution of the pension fund among all participants. It's not like there's suddenly a hole somewhere. It's just a division between the participants. The third point. We have indeed negotiated a proposal from the VCP. In this way compensation was designed in a different way, namely directly, through a kind of fund. For that variant there was no support, because then you get into the very complicated situation that you are, as it were, giving a loan to the pension fund, which has to be repaid later. There was no support for that. So we have chosen a different form, namely for the DB regime through the double transition and for the DC regime through the respectful functioning of the current progressive standard. I can't make it any easier, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA and then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u36	An important part of the proposal that has been made is that there is now uniform coverage for the survivor's pension. If you change jobs at this point when you're 45 and you die for your AOW age, your partner is left destitute. A proposal is now being made that you keep the cover over your full salary, so that if you die at 55, your partner will not be left destitute. That is a good proposal, but one thing: does it also apply if you become disabled first? Because a lot of people get sick first, get a progressive disease, and then die. Will the Minister, either now or within a week, come back in writing on how to ensure that when people become ill, their partners, when they enter the WGA or the IVA, that his successors to the WAO will continue to be eligible for a survivor's pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u37	I understand Mr Omtzigt's point. That is indeed a point of interest. The large profits of the Labour Foundation's proposal for a survivor's pension are uniform. In doing so, we prevent people from falling apart when, for example, they move from one sector to another. However, this still needs to be transposed into legislation. I'm gonna do that nicely and discuss it with the Chamber. I would also like to comment on the examples presented by Mr Omtzigt, about people who have already ended up in the WIA and who, for example, no longer have a relationship with a former employer. We need to take a closer look at that. I do not have a specific answer to that. Then we really need to go into technique. I can respond to that more easily if I also have a ruling on whether we have a total deal after July 4th. I am, of course, waiting for the FNV's grassroots consultation, because until then there is still no overall deal on this whole package. So I'm gonna have to wait for that. Then I can answer all the technical details and specific questions. But I recognize this point of Mr Omtzig's attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u38	Good. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u39	What D66 really likes is that this new contract gives much more room for personal pension assets, but retains those things that it's good to do together. So not every one goes to the stock market and also some kind of reserve, so that you avoid bad luck and happiness generations. What is very important, then, is that some of these corners are legally anchored, so that we are done with the discussion where pensioners see that there is now too little premium paid by the active workers and many young people say "is the rules of the game being changed when the weather is heavy?' Do I fully understand the proposal that 90% of the premium comes into your personal pension assets, that we allocate the returns fairly and that the reserve that is to come also has very hard, clear rules of play that are actually legally anchored?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u40	Yes, Mr Van Weyenberg understands that. The advantage of the new system is that you set rules in advance, make agreements on the distribution of returns. So if it's not so bad, you know what you're up to in advance, but even if it's disappointing, you know what you're up to in advance. This also means that the debate on the level of cover and the rate of calculation is a thing of the past. That is, I think, the greatest gain of this system, but that also means that if you have agreed on those rules, there is not just room to deviate from it. That's part of the contract. But in the end, on balance, it is good news for a lot of participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u42	There's one more question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u43	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u44	On a whole different field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-2.u45	In a very different field indeed.
