ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is food safety. I welcome the Minister for Medical Care and the MPs. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Wassenberg, who has requested the VAO. He speaks on behalf of the Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one question and one motion. I'll lead you to the question. During the AA I mentioned the number of 642 million animals slaughtered per year and the fact that the control fails because of the unimaginably large size of the meat sector. Then climate, nature and animal welfare are at a disadvantage, as well as public health. I mentioned the tens of thousands of people who have become seriously ill due to food scandals in the meat sector, and the over 100 dead. That figure has been verified by e.g. EenVandaag. The conclusion was that the number of those 100 deaths is correct. But I've been on the cautious side, because there were over 100 of them. When I asked the Minister if he found the meat sector too big to control, he replied: "Well, no, I don't think so." Less than a month later, his colleague, the Minister for Agriculture, wrote: "The pressure on the slaughter process, motivated by economic considerations, has become too great in my opinion to adequately safeguard the interests of animal welfare and food safety, but also adequate supervision." That's what "too big to control" means. Food safety can no longer be guaranteed and supervision is not sufficient according to the Minister for Agriculture. That's someone who's got eyes on this sector. At least, you'd think so. This conclusion has a major impact on the Minister for Medical Care, who is responsible for food safety. I would like to give the letter to this minister via the messenger, with the quoted passage yellow-shaped. My question to him is: does he endorse this and what will he do with it? Then I have one motion, Mr President, which deals with hormone-distorting chemicals on fruit and vegetables. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an analysis of daily Trouw shows that hormone-distorting substances are found on almost 20% of the fruit and vegetables tested by NVWA;]] [[noting that consumers have been prohibited from being exposed to these substances since 2009;]] [[calls on the Government to step up the control and enforcement of hormone-distorting substances on fruit and vegetables from the Netherlands and abroad and to remove products on which these substances are found from shops,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-565]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question that we have not come to in general consultation. That is the turnover-related fine that has been passed on to a company that has made several mistakes and even called on its customers to ignore an advice from NVWA to recover products. That company received a fine of €500,000, turnover-related, but in the AO we did not get to the question what that five tons means. That sounds like a lot of money, but is that a fine that that company is hurting a little bit too, or is it a fine that that company thinks with a smile: I pay it and I continue on the old foot? That is the specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you. We had one other colleague who had registered, but he is not present. This brings us to the end of the deliberations on the part of the Chamber. The Minister needs a moment to read and discuss the motion properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'd like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr President. First, Mr Wassenberg's question on the point made by Mr van Landbouw. If Mr van Landbouw writes a letter, I can only agree with that, of course. I think that in our debate it was more about the sector and that Mr van Landbouw was more specifically concerned with the slaughter process. At least that's how I read it in the letter. I think we have discussed the sector, which would be too big to control. I did, of course, reply in the negative because I do not think that we should put our heads in the lap. I believe that we should always continue to work to ensure that we ensure food safety in a good way for everyone in the Netherlands. The question, Mr President. In the Wassenberg motion in part No. 565 calls for increased control and enforcement. I'm dissuading the motion. The NVWA has performed. Products must already be withdrawn from the market. So I see no reason to intensify. Towards Mr. Veldman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	First of all, I would like to conclude the section with Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	Well, then, I have a question. The Minister says: my answer concerned the meat sector. But of course we're talking about all these massacres. There's just way too little staff. The Minister also referred to the incidents at the time. There have been so many of these lately that I ask the Minister: is it not just that with this size of the livestock sector public health cannot be guaranteed? We will have to talk about shrinkage anyway, also because of climate and nitrogen. But doesn't that also play a role in the Minister's consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	Given the size of the sector, I believe that it remains a very large and important point that we continue to work on food safety with everything in us. A remark like "too big to control" is a form of surrendering to the size of the sector and I do not intend to. I think it is important that we continue to work on food safety. I think this is very important from the point of view of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	Finally, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	If the Minister says "I'm not going to surrender to the size of the sector," does that mean that the size of the sector should be smaller?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	No, I didn't mean to say that either. I think I've indicated what I want to say. I believe that we should continue to work on food safety. Then there is Mr Veldman's question. He asked if the turnover-related fine is a pebble in the shoe for the entrepreneur or if it really hurts. This really hurts the entrepreneur, because it's per offense. It's a sales-related fine. The maximum of this is €870,000 per offense. So it doesn't have to be just one offense. There is also a frequent occurrence of a violation. It's like I like that, but of course it's not like that. But the amount of those amounts really affects companies. I hope I have answered the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	I see nodding, so I do. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
