ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, in particular the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. We continue today, Mr. Van Kent, with the examination of the Social Affairs and Employment budget, Office 35570-XV. Today, the first term of office of the government is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	I see Mr Van Kent. Good morning, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Good morning, Madam President. I would like to make a point of order. Billions of euros of aid goes to businesses to maintain jobs. The Court has made the condition that these companies are not allowed to pay profits, to pay bonuses or to purchase their own shares. Now we hear this morning through the NOS that it is allowed, that there would be all kinds of memos and notes that would prove that. We've been looking all over for them this morning, but we can't find them anywhere, not even in the letter of inquiry. On a point of order, we would ask the cabinet to send those memos and information to the Chamber during this debate and to deal with that part of the debate only after we have been given and have been able to read that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	I don't know about that, but I'm going to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Good morning, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	Good morning to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	I saw that on NOS.nl this morning. This comes from a Wob procedure, in which all the memos made at the Ministry when this arrangement was concluded have become public and have been sent to a journalist. That's also being sent to your room. There is always a fixed deadline so that journalists have time to publish their piece. I'll find out what the deadline is, but all the documents will be made public. I used maximum transparency to show how this package came about. This also applies to the whole NOW scheme, not just this one. Let us be clear: if a company in the Netherlands applies for NOW support, a number of conditions must be met. One is at least 20% turnover loss. Two is: that the company in the Netherlands has employees and pays sv-wage, so that you are in the systems at the UWV and there is a tax on wages. Three is: if you get that support, you can't pay out bonuses or dividends. This also applies to companies operating in the Netherlands. It can happen that is a point of substance that a company is part of a foreign company. Then we made the agreement that this company should not pay dividends, no bonus to the mother.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Secretary, this was a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yes, but this was a substantive point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	We are going to discuss content at another time. First of all, the information. I understand the Minister is willing to share the information with the Chamber, Mr. Van Kent. That concludes this point in terms of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	In fact, it was also in the arrangement that was sent to your Chamber in July.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	Look. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	We have seen in the NOS that there are official advice to prevent these companies from paying dividends or bonuses to shareholders via parent companies abroad. That is not recommended, because this minister has decided otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	No, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	The Chamber wasn't informed about that. So again, not the request to send all documents to the Chamber, but specifically the documents that are about those bonuses...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	... to be sent to the Chamber before we discuss the NOW in this debate. For this is a very important point for us, because a majority of the House has supported a motion that takes this as a condition, and it simply does not seem to be properly arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	I see that the Minister is very keen to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr President, three points. One: I would very much like to share it with you, which I also did with the journalist, so that you can read what happened. Two: there is now a wrong picture. Officials have indeed thought about the first stage and how this can be prevented. They've also had conversations with companies. They said: if this is in the scheme, we are going to stop employment in the Netherlands. That is not the intention, and that is why they have adapted the advice to me. That is what happened, and that is what you can see in the documents that will be made public. Three: an appointment has been made with the journalist about sharing these pieces. It's a huge piece of paper. I'd love to send that to your room, but it's not gonna work to read it in an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	Then it is clear: the information is shared with the Chamber, only your second point, Mr. Van Kent, to wait for the treatment of the NOW section until the documents are read...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes, many groups have asked questions about the support packages. Before we can debate this with this Minister with good decency, we need to know exactly what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yeah, but that's a different order proposal. I'm just gonna see if there's a majority for that. Do you want to put that all right? Then the MPs can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	The aid packages are part of this budgetary treatment. An important condition that the Court has attached to these aid packages is that companies should not pay bonuses and dividends. Turns out something's going on. The request of the SP is that we want to know exactly what is going on before we can discuss that part here in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	Then the order proposal is clear. I'm just gonna see if there's a majority for that, or else we're gonna talk about it endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the specific point that Mr Van Kent is talking about, I support it. However, during this debate I would like to be able to ask questions directly about the support package, for example on its extension. When it comes to the specific point that Mr Van Kent is talking about, I am fine with it, but when it comes to the rest of the aid packages, including the NOW, the question of whether or not we are going to extend them and what they are going to look like, I just want to be able to ask my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	So no delay. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	Only when it comes to Mr Van Kent's part. I think it is fine if it comes in the course of the debate or when the information comes in. I agree with all that, but I must be able to ask my questions about the support package today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	Support for Mr Van Kent's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr De Jong's line is very good. I think it would be a good idea for those pieces to come our way as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	Support, especially for how Mr De Jong put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. I also agree with what Mr De Jong said. Perhaps it would be good if the Minister also sent the link to the Chamber of Representatives with the arrangement that we apparently had, where this is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Stoffer, do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	Does that apply to the others, too? Then there is still a majority to continue and to ask questions about the part you referred to. So don't delay the debate or stop somewhere halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	For the sake of clarity, I agree with what Mr Van Kent said, namely the specific aspect relating to the NOW, whether or not bonuses are paid out and that kind of thing. But I think that in the debate on the rest of the support package, the NOW, the Tozo and so on, I should simply be able to ask my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	We both have the answers for the first term in the set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	I now turn to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Before I start, let's start with the division of labour and the cubes in advance. I will go into my part of the support and recovery package in a moment:zzp'ers, the labour market, pensions, integration and integration, and a few other blocks. The Secretary of State will address poverty and debt as well as the aid- the recovery package, in particular the Tozo. He's got a block of other stuff, too. Am I missing something now? The broad offensive and the job deal. That's what the Secretary of State is going to say. I also have an introduction of five, six minutes. I would kindly ask you to allow me to make that introduction. This is my last budget review, so I'd like to give you some context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	Of course we'll give you that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yeah, why don't you sit down for it, because I'm gonna challenge you all and then you can't interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	We're all ears. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Madam President. This is the last SZW budget of this cabinet before the elections. At least that's 99% sure. It is rightly a historic budget of almost EUR 100 billion, EUR 95 billion. It is a budget that is signed by the profound corona outbreak, which unfortunately we are still in the middle of. It is a crisis that hits a lot of people hard and causes great uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. I am now three years and three weeks of minister. At the start of the ride we were in good shape. The unemployment rate was low and continued to fall every quarter. There were more jobs. In March of this year, only seven months ago, the CBS set the percentage at 2.9%. It was the lowest unemployment rate in 20-25 years. My main concern, and also your greatest concern, was the shortage in many sectors of our economy, including in key public sectors, such as education and care. At the same time, there was the notion that a lot of people were still on the sidelines. But it is too flat a picture of reality to say that there were no major challenges at the time. On the contrary. Unemployment was low and public finances were getting healthier, but those who looked closely saw underlying problems. Several Members of your Chamber, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Gijs van Dijk, rightly pointed this out on Tuesday. They're right. Because those who looked closely saw a labour market off balance, with a gap between fixed and flex and between people who can participate and people who are on the side. But those who looked closely also saw a pension system that needed reform to fit back into the changing way we live and work in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Important steps have been taken in recent years to improve the labour market, social security and pensions. That was not always easy, but at least for the last two years we have made progress together. And I'm just proud of that. With the Labour Market Act in balance, we reduce the differences between fixed and flex. Agreements with the social partners make payment of wages in the event of illness easier and clearer by employers. The birth leave for partners, the Cradle, for a better combination of work and care, has also been extended to six weeks, with the introduction of nine weeks of partly paid parental leave. Furthermore, we have taken steps in the area of lifelong development. Think, for example, of the SLIM scheme for SMEs, for business culture. In 2022, we will also introduce the STAP budget for self-directed training for all workers, whether you are an employee or an employee. This summer, the law for a new integration system was also passed with a very large majority of your Chamber. This puts an end to the loan system, and encourages language and work from day one to really give newcomers in the Netherlands the chance to participate. Last but not least, after ten years of consultation, there is a broad-based pension agreement, which provides an insight into a future-proof system. Over the past two weeks, the legislative proposals on a less rapid increase in the AOW age for heavy-duty occupations and the possibility of a lump sum for pensions have been adopted unanimously in your Chamber. I'm proud of that too. In short, we have taken great steps. Steps which I am proud of and which were taken up in 'Gijs van Dijk' after close consultation with trade unions and employers' organizations. But I would like to stress here today that this was also achieved through a cooperation between coalition and opposition in this Parliament. That, too, is a good result. For example, in the case of pensions and the integration system, you will see that a broad majority of your Chamber has agreed to these laws. It may also be said that this cooperation still pays off. Mr. Chairman. Now it's like a good news show. But of course I'm not happy with everything. Unfortunately, not everything worked out. For example, I would have liked to do more with the urgent opinions of the Borstlap Committee and the WRR report The better work. These reports from the Borstlap Committee and the WRR were published in February this year, so they are only nine months old. But February seems to be an eternity ago; at least with me it is. I don't know what that's like with you, but for me, it's been forever. My officials have been very busy working with the NOW, with the Tozo, with all the work-to-work routes, due to the outbreak of corona and due to all the emergency and support measures that we had to implement in that short period. As a result, unfortunately, there has been no time and space to take further steps in this regard. The same goes for thezzp file. Steps have been taken, but here too, our ambition was greater than the reality allowed. Nevertheless, we continue on the path we took at the beginning of this cabinet period. For example, the self-employed deduction is further reduced and the employment discount increased in order to reduce tax differences between different types of workers. This is also in line with the opinion of the Borstlap Committee. A second point is that we are currently working hard on the precise implementation of compulsory disability insurance for self-employed persons. The aim is also to reduce the differences between workers in the line of Borstlap. Through the web module we try to provide the self-employed and clients with clarity and certainty about how work can be organized. I will come back to that in more detail in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Since March, all my work has been in a different light. Priority was given to protecting public health, in particular the health of vulnerable people. For me, as well as for Mr Hoekstra and Mr Wiebes, it soon came up with the task of taking the economic blow and saving as many jobs as possible. No customization, no complex rules, but simple and clear arrangements with quick payouts. They're working with men and power to get through that crisis. The third aid package has been in operation since 1 October. In this way, we will also be helping employees, self-employed people and companies in the coming period as best we can at this difficult time. Today, I would like to have the debate with you on the budget and on the discussions and questions raised by the Chamber. I've got the next blocks. Firstly, the aid and recovery package, thenzzp and the labour market, then pensions, then integration and integration, and finally a number of other questions. Then I would like to end by saying, perhaps more of a cry of hearts, that we must also be realistic. For everything we are talking about today, we are dealing with the limits of what people, but also the implementation, can handle. I have said it many times, including in this Chamber: I am very proud of what is going on, of what the UWV is doing and of what the SVB is doing in terms of aid and recovery packages and crisis measures. I am also very proud of all the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs who have made those regulations and legislation in those nine months and have thought about how to combat abuse and misuse. The SVB was declared a government organisation of the year last week. So I'm very proud and very sloppy. That's another word for "proud" at the work of my officials and the work of the executives in the past period. But we do ask a lot of our organizations. Last week's parliamentary questioning, led by Mr Bosman, showed this. We ask a lot and we also have to be honest: not everything can be done anymore. Your Chamber has nine weeks of meetings until the election, so your Chamber can't do everything anymore. Today, in the answers to the legitimate questions and concerns in the direction of your Chamber, I will indicate what is no longer possible in the future because we also need to maintain our NOW, TVL and Tozo schemes and we need to be able to help people who are eligible for benefits quickly in order to prevent them from being confronted with a loss of income. That's just like some kind of general heart cry at the beginning of my first term. Mr. Chairman. This was my introduction. If there are no further questions about this, I would like to start with the first block: the support and recovery package. Yeah, this is entrapment, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. The support and recovery package. We sent a set of written answers to the technical questions last night. I hope you were able to read them all this morning. I'm going through it more broadly now. We see that the pandemic has hit the economy and the labour market hard. Unfortunately, the end is not yet in sight. That is why we decided that the NOW, the TVL and the Tozo will continue until 1 July 2021. Two weeks ago, I said here with my colleagues Hoekstra and Wiebes that these arrangements are moving along with social and economic reality, because aid increases if the turnover loss is also greater. This applies both to wage costs and to fixed charges. In the case of the NOW, in particular, the 10% reduction in the rate of compensation is a 10% exemption from wages, because we see that companies are in a different situation after seven, eight months of crisis. As stated last week in the Asscher motion, which your Chamber voted in favour by a majority, we aim to inform your Chamber at the end of November or at the latest early December of the review and possible updating of the support and recovery package. This explicitly raises the question of what we are doing on 1 January with the proposed austerity on 1 January. We are in consultation with social partners on this. We're taking stock of the extent to which adjustments are needed. We also received new figures last week. In the third quarter we had good economic growth and good economic development. Next week we have another meeting with the unions and the employers. In consultation, we are looking at new challenges and new bottlenecks. With the extension of the aid measures until 1 July 2021, we will continue to focus on maintaining employment and maintaining business and activity. I have always said: at the same time, we cannot prevent people from being fired and companies from going bankrupt. That is why we have included in the third aid and recovery package an additional social package of EUR 1.4 billion to help entrepreneurs, but also workers, to adapt to the economic situation. This is not generic, but particularly important for some sectors that are hard hit by the crisis, and which are also hard hit by the crisis for a long time. The use of this package is that as many people as possible go directly from work to new work, because we still see that there are shortages, in health care, in education and in technology. We also want to take advantage of these opportunities to help people from job to job and, where necessary, to help them in a targeted way. That is why we are making this investment of 1.4 billion in first intensive support and guidance for new work, second training and development for job retention, third the fight against youth unemployment, which the Secretary of State is about to address, and fourth the fight against poverty and debt. Shall I finish this, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yeah, and I got a whole list. I'll write with you. I have Mr De Jong, Mr Bruins, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg asked me what I can say about the implementation and state of play of the supplementary social package, on which the money is spent and on which it is spent. Just a few answers. Through the letter of amendment, the funds for 2021 have been put in the right place in the budget so that the funds can be used. Part of this has already been transferred to the Municipal Fund, including for the provision of services to welfare recipients in order to find work, but also for debt policy and tackling youth unemployment. That's block one. Then block two. In the field of training, among other things, NL is already learning free of charge. Since 1 December, further 50,000 development opinions have been made available in response to Mr Smeulder's motion. They will therefore be opened up from 1 December to give people the opportunity to get advice on the question: what direction should I be retrained, what direction is my future in? From the beginning of 2021 onwards, a EUR 72 million retraining scheme will be added through employers for the co-financing of tailor-made pathways. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about this yesterday. It is offered by sectors and partly financed by the R&D funds, which have that money available, so that they also contribute to the preservation of jobs. This co-financing is a prerequisite for making use of the 72 million scheme. I have a complete overview of the training schemes available in the Learning and Developing Roadmap which were sent to your Chamber on 13 November together with Ingrid van Engelshoven, the Minister of Education. It actually provides a comprehensive overview of the arrangements and budgets that exist, how things stand with them now and when people can make use of them. For the crisis services section, therefore, we are currently working with trade unions, employers, UWV and the municipalities, but also with educational organisations, the MBO institutions and the ROCs, to develop these regional mobility teams and that missed budget of EUR 195 million for the provision of services. We are talking about this with sectors with a lot of demand, such as the technology sectors, care and education. In the meantime, in three regions where bottlenecks are most evident, we have started shaping services to other jobs through those regional mobility teams. Soon we will be starting to do so in those other regions as well. I am trying to reach a major agreement within the next two weeks, to take a big step, with all these parties, in order to implement this. I will inform your Chamber very soon about the precise development of the regional mobility teams and the administrative arrangements. We have already started a lot of paths, including in the three regions where the bottlenecks are greatest, but the ambition is of course to bring it up very quickly for the whole country. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kent asked me what I am going to do for those who are out of business. With the support and recovery package, the Cabinet provides support to many people in bearing the consequences of the corona crisis. For example, specific support has also been provided for the cultural sector and the sports sector, because we see that we cannot generate sufficient support there, for example through generic NOW schemes. In addition, the regular system of labour law and social security naturally offers workers protection against loss of income and/or work. To respond directly to Mr Van Weyenberg's questions, this also applies to assistance for workers with a fictitious employment which, because of the nature of their employment, are in some cases not covered by the NOW or Tozo scheme. Municipalities also have the possibility of helping poignant cases in the context of special assistance on a tailor-made basis. However, on both aspects, the Cabinet of Ministers, as we said two weeks ago in a debate on the aid and recovery package, will continue to keep its finger on the pulse to see what is happening. Mr Van 't Wout is going to say something about this in his term. Therefore, attention remains for those for whom the current package offers no or limited outcome. The possibilities for these groups are discussed with all stakeholders. This applies to trade unions, to the Divosas, to social services, but also to companies which are at risk of falling between shore and ship because of special circumstances. On the outcome of these talks, but also on the consideration that we make in them, I would like to refer you again to that letter which comes at the end of November, at the beginning of December. In this we will also answer the question of what we are doing on 1 January with the possible austerity; rather, the envisaged austerity. There we will take these things together and offer them in one letter to your Chamber, together with colleagues Hoekstra and Wiebes. One more point in this block, Madam President. No, two more. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders also spoke yesterday about important jobs in vital sectors of our economy, referring explicitly to education and health care. The Cabinet ensures in different ways that more people can work in these vital sectors. Last Monday, colleague Slob and colleague Van Engelshoven sent another letter to your Chamber entitled "Extra hands for the class" to temporarily get more people into education. EUR 210 million is earmarked for this purpose. The details are in that letter last Monday. There are also several initiatives in the area of care to get more people to work. Mrs Van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, has debated this with your Chamber. This goes through the "Extra hands for care" initiative and through investing in recruitment and training. I believe that this was discussed with your Chamber last week in a general discussion. Thirdly, in spring we made agreements about the Netherlands together with the employers, the trade unions, the UWV, the municipalities and the educational field. Companies in vital sectors can meet their demand for staff, e.g. via bbl-routes, vocational apprenticeships. Fourthly, as a cabinet, we are working on the corona courts. I sent a letter on that last Monday. I remember that was a motion by Mr Asscher two weeks ago on the basis of our letter saying that we were looking for ways in this gloomy time to support important sectors such as health care and education, but also public enforcement, for example, to help us all through the covidwinter. I sent a letter last Monday. There's still some thinking to be done. I understand you're in a lot of hurry. Yeah, I do. The reality is that within a month we have to be rigged for what we normally take a year for. Now it has to be much faster, but it also needs to be careful to prevent us from falling from the rain. But we are working very hard on this, together with the ministry of JenV, the ministry of OCW and the ministry of VWS to get this off the ground. Finally, in this context, Mr Kuzu has asked me to create more internships within the government in order to reduce the shortage of internships during the corona crisis. I saw that you spoke to Mr Van Engelshoven on Tuesday at Question Time. The same question was raised in Mr Bruins' motion of 24 September. The ministries of BZK, OCW and my ministry are joining forces here. This spring, your Chamber will be informed more about the progress, as also reported by the Minister of OCW in a letter dated two weeks ago on this point. This is widely deployed with the SBB, the 10 million and additional internships. That was block two, Mr President, on the aid and recovery package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	No, Mr. Kuzu, I have a whole list. I'll add your name to the list of MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr President, may I add something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yes, what else did you want to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	In the meantime, I have been informed that the documents have been posted on national government.nl, including a link to the arrangement offered to your Chamber in July. That is Mr Van Kent's point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	I get it. I have Mr De Jong, Mr Bruins, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Van Kent and Mr Kuzu. Mr De Jong can always intervene very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	Yeah, he can, but the question is if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yeah, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	I don't think that's what he wants, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	That's kind of short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u57	Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u58	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u59	This morning, we read that even when the economy recovers, for next year, ING predicts 100,000 jobs less, so that 100,000 more people will be unemployed. Now I have asked a number of times: there is a support package; very nice, but there are also austerities in it; can you not make sure that these austerities at least go away? I'm gonna be very brief. When it comes to the overall package, whether it is moving and whether we should extend it, broaden it or extend it, the Minister has just indicated that he will come forward with it at the end of November or early December. But that's unrelated to this point. Because I'm talking specifically about the austerities. You can say, of course, that we are going to broaden or extend it. I'd love that. But it would also be nice if you could promise today that you will take these austerities off the table, so that, for example, the catering industry, the travel industry or the event industry knows where they stand. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u60	Just for the sake of completeness and to prevent us from talking past each other: the third aid and recovery package goes from 1 October to 1 July. For the phase 1 October to 1 January there was a austerity, especially in the power test in the Tozo. When the measures were announced, the cabinet withdrew that austerity. I agree with Mr De Jong. Mr De Jong is right, as I said to him two weeks ago, the cabinet intends to make further progress on the settlement from 1 January. That's about the turnover rates and the reimbursement rates. The House has rightly asked us whether this is wise in the light of the new developments in the second wave. We said at the time that we understood the question from the Asscher motion, but give us a moment to analyse it, to look at it and also to look at the new figures from the third quarter of the Dutch economy. And then we'll come back to your Chamber at the end of November, early December, including the answer to the question of whether we're actually going to lose weight on 1 January. That's what we're gonna do in that letter. In addition to consultation with the social partners, there is also a need for consultation with the implementation organisations, such as the UWV and the municipalities, in order to find out what is possible here. So that's the answer. This analysis is currently taking place and next week the consultation with the social partners will take place and you will receive that letter at the end of November, beginning of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u61	I'm not gonna settle for that. There are hundreds of thousands of jobs at stake. There are people who have to go home to Christmas and don't know what they're up to. We see that, for example, catering entrepreneurs who now have to prepare themselves are wondering: am I open or not open for the holidays? They are going to have huge problems when they are told that these austerities will continue, for example. They have to be able to anticipate. Surely it cannot be that this minister simply says: we are still in consultation, we are still going to have a cup of coffee here and there. I just want the Minister to say today that at least those austerities are going to go away. You don't need any consultation for that at all, Minister. That's what you're up to. You're the minister here. You're the one who can arrange that. Why don't you just do that? There are hundreds of thousands of people who are very worried. There are already a lot of unemployed people and this minister has to deal with that. I also think that the package should be extended if it is necessary, very well. But take that austerity off the table today and do not discuss whether or not there have been austerities. The Tozo didn't have a partner test at first. It's in now. You just need to get it out of there, too. I don't understand why you don't. A lot ofzzp'ers leave you with that. But take the austerities off the table today!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u62	Partly this is a repeat of moves from two weeks ago. At that time, we also had a wide-ranging debate. I like to say two things. One. I understand it's a very complicated time for the catering industry. I also understand that there is a lot of uncertainty. But even more important is what can happen again and when. Yesterday evening the press conference was held and yesterday there was a debate on the corona measures. "When can we open again, maybe partly" is the most important thing for entrepreneurs. Two. I understand your question very well. I also fully understand the question of the Chamber to consider whether the proposed austerity is sensible. But we really need to think about how you're doing this. Why? Let me give you one example. In addition to the reduction in the reimbursement rate, the scheme that we have deposited with your Chamber also includes a reduction in the pay bill option. It's rising, too. Especially in sectors where there have been significant turnover losses for seven or eight months, as in the catering sector, the reality is that not all people have their jobs anymore. We have seen this in April, May and June. We therefore need to look closely at what is sensible with the employers and the organisations. We have announced that we will come to your Chamber at the end of November, early December with a letter of decision, a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u63	I wanted to propose four interruptions in two or eight questions. Mr De Jong, and then you will have the floor, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u64	There's no time to lose. Hundreds of thousands of people are worried. A lot of households are already struggling. Households whose job a partner has already lost and the other sees his job at stake. Then you cannot say: you know, we are in consultation. It's your move, isn't it? You're in charge, aren't you? Then why don't you take control? Just get those austerities off the table. If you don't, then you don't care about those people at all. That's not what you should want, is it? You just gave pride to be Minister of Social Affairs and Employment for three years. Then don't break it down, but make sure that you help those people by at least not losing those support measures any further. Just admit it today and don't let these people go into uncertainty for weeks or months. Help them today!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u65	I repeat my previous answer, which is also the answer of two weeks ago. We come at the end of November, early December with a letter in accordance with the Asscher motion, which was voted by your Chamber last Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u66	The Minister mentioned four clear deficit sectors: education, care, enforcement and technology. We know that we lack a lot of people in these sectors. The first three are public sectors or at least those financed by the public sector. I'm worried about the fourth sector. I hear that 1.4 billion of the supplementary social package goes to the UWV, the Municipal Fund and to consultants, coaches and supervisors. We don't want that. Fortunately, I see the Minister shaking no. Look, technicians can only be trained in the technological sector. They're not trained by the UWV. How do we ensure that a large part of this 1.4 billion actually ends up in the technological sector, in industry schools and in apprenticeships? How's it gonna get there? I'm really worried that we're going to have a lot of people escorted and counseled at the expense of the government, but it doesn't end up in the technological sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u67	I agree with Mr Bruins and that is absolutely not the intention. For example, this 195 million for regional labour market services will be spent not only on people who will be accompanying, but also on routes such as bbl-paths, vocational guidance routes and retraining pathways. The EUR 73 million I just referred to and the cofinancing with the R & D funds is aimed at: how can we train people to be able to work in the deficit sectors? There is absolutely no money going to consultants and expensive stationery, but precisely to tools to help people from job to job or benefit to job. For this we also need the UWV and the municipalities, for example if people are on WW or welfare benefits and want to get back to work very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's encouraging. Can the Minister promise that, for example, when training paths are needed, someone wants to be trained from light engineer in the event sector to installation technician to install solar panels or heat pumps, which are training pathways, financed by that money, are training pathways that exist in the sector itself and that they will not be reinvented by the government and that the sector can take care of this itself and take the lead and direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u69	Yeah, as much as possible. This also affects Mrs Palland's and yours yesterday's question about the regional training structure, the roc's, which, of course, we also share and where many SMEs in particular are thinking about the good training path for their people. So yes, that's the intention of the arrangements. We are also learning from the experiences of the R & D sectors and engineering sectors in recent years in a variety of pacts and pathways. It is therefore intended that it should be linked to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u70	At the moment, a lot of people are threatened with dismissal. Campina, Ahoy, BAM and many other companies have already announced redundancies. That's worrying. That is why, in the third aid package, we have also called for a job guarantee that people can move from one job to another. It's been a while. I understand that working out is complicated, but we said at the end of September that we need to make sure that we break through it now. We know all the parties that often and very much talk to each other, but often do little. When can the dismissed Campina employee claim that amount to move from one job to another as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u71	As I said earlier, we have already started to do so in three regions. We therefore anticipate the definitive arrangements and subsidies, because we think it is important that it is done quickly. I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk. By the way, it's only been six weeks. It always seems like years go by, but it doesn't. It's been six weeks. We're very intensive with each other. Everyone's excited. I think that's the good news. Everyone is eager to get to work: the municipalities, the UWV, but also the social partners. It's really going the right way. The first sections have already started, even from the second package of NLWerktDoor, with the pathways and training advice points of Mr Smeulders. We started in three regions and I hope to send the letter to you in just a few weeks about how we're really gonna do this and make a kick-start. The main challenge lies in these 73 million for sectors and sectors with co-financing. Concrete plans to help people from job to job are being worked very hard. Trust me: there is a lot of energy and a lot of urgency. Soon I hope to be able to tell you more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u72	My view is that in this case it is not up to the Minister, nor to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u73	In this case? I want these Acts printed out, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u74	I'm very subtle. But it is mainly up to all those parties that have an interest. I know that world a little bit. I would like to ask the Minister, or perhaps would like to dedicate or help, and also order it from the Chamber to settle this just before 1 December. Those parties must be put on the table; buttons must be cut. People have nothing to do with all the well-intentioned talk. There should simply be routes in all those regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u75	I fully agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk on this. It is also my commitment and my determination to settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mrs Van Brenk, and then Mr Van Kent, and then Mr Kuzu. You should not take the middle microphone, Mrs Van Brenk, because you have to step very hard on the pedal. The other one's a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u77	Is this better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u79	Whatever. I received an answer from the Minister and I was somewhat dissatisfied with that. I thought I'd give him another chance. He was just shining for five minutes about how beautiful everything was, and I thought, "I'm giving him a new challenge." It's about open ringing. He said that he will soon bring the findings to the attention of employers' organisations and trade unions. Now I've seen the Prime Minister grab the microphone and he's shown a nice, open ad or commercial. The Prime Minister can sell fantastic things. I thought at the time: if this is not the time for this minister to take the opportunities open to him, especially at this time... And then we're going to make a video of it, even though I prefer not to see this minister on our site. But maybe we can let the video of viral go. So the challenge is: can this minister advertise for open hair, so that all these companies can see that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u80	I do not have the illusion that all the words I utter have the same impact as those of the Prime Minister. That's just not gonna work. But I would like to make a video together with Mrs Van Brenn and the margin of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u81	You're going to make a movie together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u82	We're gonna make a movie together to bring this to the attention of the public. 'Cause I think it's a good initiative. The Start Foundation has also done research on this. That's what I told your room. It's an interesting addition to the palette. And then when we make a movie together, it's gonna be all right on the 50PLUS channels. But at a distance of 1.5 meters, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u83	I just get the impression that the austerity of the support package is off the table! If that's different, I'd love to hear it. My question concerns an increasingly large group of people who fall out of the boat. These people fall between shores and ships: they lose their income because the corona measures no longer allow them to work, but they cannot, or cannot, claim the arrangements as they have been designed. I know that there are a lot of employers' desires and that there are all kinds of ideas about fixed-rate benefits for employees. I see the Secretary of State nodding. They want all kinds of fixed-rate arrangements. How's that going? Can that be rushed, please? 'Cause a lot of people get into real trouble. Can the letter we are about to receive on the progress of the aid package be conclusive? Then all those people who are knocking on our door and many others, who are out of the boat and who are really in serious trouble, including students, flex workers andzzp'ers, can be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u84	The Secretary of State will answer that in a moment, but I would like to say two things. I understand the question very well. As a cabinet, we are constantly working to keep the finger on the wrist, to see: where do people fall between shore and ship? For a number of areas that were discussed last time, including in Mr Smulder's motion for a resolution for young people up to 27 years old, we have created and extended opportunities to accommodate that group. Also in my TOFA letter, i.e. the letter on the Temporary Bridging Scheme for Flexible Workers, I had six other variants worked out to see what could be done. That is why it is extremely complicated in terms of implementation. That said, we keep looking at this. The Secretary of State will deal with this in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u85	I am pleased that the Minister does not deny that the austerity of the aid package is indeed off the table. That's hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u86	Formally, I have to deny this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u87	The question I asked is also one of this. I understand that there could be all kinds of possibilities from the assistance arrangements. But the problem is many times bigger, and that is also what employers and employees, for example, are looking at. So the question to this minister is to what extent he sees possibilities within his portfolio responsibility. I will also table a motion to encourage the Minister to do so. There's a lot of trouble. More needs to be done, because a lot of people really get into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u88	I don't quite understand this question. I do not understand exactly what Mr Van Kent is referring to. This does not count as a question for him; I just want a clarification. At least, Mr. Chairman, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u89	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u90	For example, it is about short-term WW that ends, people who work in sectors where the NOW amount that employers have to pay is too high, which threatens to lose their jobs, and people who need a bridge for a while because they need training, for example, to be able to be escorted to other jobs. All that stuff isn't in the State Secretary's office. Soon I will have the debate with the Secretary of State on assistance and everything that goes with it. But this is really about what the minister is responsible for. The question is to do everything possible to get that employee representation out of there, to make sure that everyone can really count on that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u91	Actually, we do that all the time, but I'm going to be very specific. For example, in the short-term WW we also looked at how we can easily extend it in the context of this letter about TOFA. That is not technically possible. That should be done manually for hundreds of thousands of people. I just can't. That's an example we've been looking at. So what are the alternatives? So you're gonna be in the NOW. That is why in the NOW 2 we have, for example, increased the percentages for the catering industry, especially for the catering industry, from 0.3% to 0.4%, in order to increase the subsidy, in order to do justice to it. Finally, we also see that it will not be enough for all people and businesses, because they are through the reserves or in a sector where there is simply little perspective. That is why we have allocated EUR 1.4 billion to training, retraining and helping it move from one job to another, because at the same time we see deficits in other parts of the economy. Along that road we are constantly adjusting, constantly keeping a finger on the wrist and constantly thinking, also in consultation with companies and trade unions, to see: where is what now needed? So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u92	There's a matter we've been working on for a while. We discussed this during the General Political Reviews and during oral Question Time: the enormous shortage of internships. It has risen to a record level of 21,000. I had asked the Minister in my first term whether he would like to set an objective to create a number of traineeships and to reduce the deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u93	Isn't the answer to this in the written set we sent? I remember reading something about that last night. There was a reference to a piece by the Ministry of Education. It was about the SBB, 10 million and that sort of thing, which the Minister of Education informed in her letter of 30 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u94	But last night we had a debate, which lasted until 10:30 or so. But perhaps it would be good if Mr Kuzu looked at it and came back on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u95	We're gonna take a look, or I'll get back to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u96	It's in the written set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u97	Fine, Mr Kuzu will come back to it differently. Please continue. You were with thezzp'ers, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yeah, I'm on block two. It is true that this concernszzp and the labour market. Your room has asked a lot of questions about thezzp file. I understand that very well. Many questions were about the progress on this file. As I said in my introduction, I have not been able to live up to all my ambitions. This concerns, in particular, protection at the bottom of the labour market and the self-employment declaration. I hope your room has seen my struggle, too. Part of it was the search in Europe. In the coalition agreement we had the so-called alt, the contract of employment at a low rate, as a direction. In fact, it was stated that people who are paid up to a certain rate are not self-employed but must become employees. Unfortunately, there have been many European legal objections, such as freedom of movement. I couldn't. We worked out an alternative back then. This alternative was the minimum rate for self-employed workers from €15 to €18 per hour. It was fully developed into a ready-made bill, with all kinds of execution tests, and opened for consultation. The consultation and treatment in your Chamber showed that it was simply not a viable alternative. Indeed, there were significant administrative retention and enforcement concerns. It is not common on this dossier, but everyone agreed about it. That was true for the unions, the employers, thezzp clubs, but also for your Chamber. Because I don't want to make people happy against their will, I decided to withdraw the bill. That has been a disappointment to me, too. In fact, I can see that, particularly on the vulnerable side of the labour market, there is a risk that, because of cost advantages, a construction will be chosen, for another way of shaping employment. So we keep looking for new brackets and new possibilities. I also stated this in my response to the Borstlap Committee's report, which I sent to your Chamber two weeks ago. This includes the search for platform work and the discussion on the future of temporary agency work. In all these quests there is actually the question: how do we ensure that we can better protect the vulnerable underside in particular? It sounds a little weird, but I would like to mention a few points from all these sections that I find valuable. There has been a shared image since recent years that "thezzp'er" does not exist. The second point is that there are large differences between sectors and between high and low ratezzp'ers. In the meantime, I want there to be broad consensus on this. There is a greater understanding of the complexity of the labour law issue and the framework conditions thatzzp measures must meet. There was a ruling recently from the Supreme Court, which you also asked questions about. I will come back to this in greater detail shortly after the analysis. There are elements on which important steps forward have been taken in this tough dossier. I mentioned that the self-employed are being reduced in order to reduce the tax differences between people with an employment relationship and those who are entrepreneurs. This is in view of the purchasing power, at the same time an increase in the labour cut, in order to prevent people from falling back on it. We are also working very hard on the compulsory AOV, the compulsory disability insurance for self-employed persons. Many questions have rightly been asked about this in your Chamber, for example, because people are driving around uninsuredly as a meal deliverer. I believe that the mandatory AOV is also a step forward. In addition, we are still working with Mr Vijlbrief, the Secretary of State for Finance, on the successful introduction of the web module. With this we want to give the self-employed and clients as much certainty and clarity as possible about the nature of the job and whether it should be in employment or can be performed as a self-employed person. We start the pilot in early 2021. The evaluation is followed to determine whether this instrument creates the desired clarity and certainty for self-employed persons and clients. In March of this year, we also planned to hold a wide-ranging social discussion on self-employment in education, health care and all kinds of other sectors. Corona just threw soot in there. We wanted to have those conversations, but it didn't work because the lockdown was proclaimed. The objectives of these discussions were to raise awareness of the rules, reflect on their implementation and a responsible way to do so, to prevent sectors of the other day from facing a shortage of, for example, surgical assistants or teachers. This is also part of the conversation that you have to take with you to do it carefully. I say this also in reply to Mrs Van Brenk's question the day before yesterday, about reducing the differences between self-employed and employees and about the self-employed deduction. I am also saying this in reply to Mr Stoffer's question. I would point out that the reduction in the self-employed's deduction represents an increase in the working discount, which applies to all workers and thus supports the purchasing power of all workers. Several MPs, Mrs Palland, Mr Smeulders, Mrs Nijkerken and Mr Gijs van Dijk, asked for enforcement. It is indeed important to restart enforcement. At least, not "again"; it is important to start enforcement. That must be done carefully. We don't want to go back to the situation of the DBA Act a few years ago. Then Minister Asscher and Secretary of State Wiebes were in control with the DBA Act. Then there was a lot of confusion, unrest and restraint among clients for hiring self-employed people. I do not want to have that situation again, because that will only lead to more disturbances, more unrest and more confusion. Following the evaluation of the pilot, after the web module has been tested, a decision is taken on the possible termination of the enforcement Moratorium. I wrote in the letter from myself and my colleague, Mr Vijlbrief, that it is not until 1 October 2021, because then the results of the pilot will be available. Then we have also been able to see in the pilot which bottlenecks have emerged from practice. There are major differences between sectors and between high and low rates. Mrs Palland specifically asked for enforcement in the event of malice. On Monday, Secretary of State Vijlletter and I sent a letter on this subject. In the recent progress report on the supervision of employment relations, you can see that the enforcement Moratorium does apply, but that the Tax Administration and the SZW Inspection do indeed supervise the evildoers, that they coach and that they ask in conversation with clients: wouldn't you adapt your work to the laws and regulations? The Tax Administration and the Inspection SZW continue to make company visits, provide information and conduct book surveys to keep this point on the radar. If maliciousness can be proven during the enforcement moratorium, it will be maintained, although it does not appear to be easy in practice. You know that, too. I have already shared with your Chamber several times that proving malice is incredibly complicated. Mr President, those were the questions aboutzzp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u99	Then I have Mr Smeulders, Mr Stoffer, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan and Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u100	As was pointed out the day before yesterday, this is a dossier in which we are most critical of the cabinet. Four years ago there were fine words, but in the end the situation has only worsened over the last four years. We're still seeing an increase in the number ofzzp'ers. We are not opposed to this, but we also see an increase in the number of people who are not supposed to be a zzp'er. What's bothering me is this. Now it's said: we're going to test the web module. That web module's already been tested. From the first trial with the internet form among 84 companies that hirezzp'ers, it turned out to be wrong in almost half of the cases. Can the Minister explain how, if it comes from his own test, there has never been a post-tax imposed so far, when we know that things are actually happening that aren't right? Apparently, we don't dare to say to some people that you are nowzzp'er, but you shouldn't really be. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u101	I have four answers. I understand you're the most critical of this. As I said in my introduction, I agree with you. But as far as the increase in the number of bogus self-employed people is concerned the day before yesterday, we do not really know. If you have any information on this, I am highly recommended, because we cannot record it anywhere. That's the second thing. Thirdly, it is true that we tested the web module. It has been tested by external experts, professors, tax advisors, legal experts and internal experts, such as the Tax Administration, the UWV and people who know something about payroll taxes. This shows that there is a very nice piece written on ZiPeconomy by Mr Ruts...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Different experts give different assessments of the nature of the employment relationship. That makes this point so incredibly complicated. Mr Smeulders is right, however, that is the fourth point that comes out of that analysis that much of it would not actually get an explanation in advance that they should be allowed to do the job as a self-employed person. That already indicates that we really have serious questions here and really have to take a step forward in order to get this better. However, we have learned from the situation with the DBA Act. I am referring to the discussion on malice, which Mrs Palland asked for. If we now hand out fines, without any clear criteria about why and about the trade-offs, there will be so much unrest in the market and in the clients that it will actually stop the whole market and dry up the revenues of a lot of people. I think this is unwise: this should simply be done carefully, predictablely and clearly defined, otherwise we will create our own urgent debate, which will benefit no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u102	Look, we're all careful. The problem is, wherever you cut, there's gonna be a group that's gonna get hit anyway. These are people who are likely to be working aszzp'er and what is not allowed under the rules in the future. The problem is that we don't want to hit that group, and the cabinet doesn't want to. Because we have been around this painful choice for four years now, we are not actually doing anything to protect the false self-employed. Does the Minister agree with us that it is better to rip off that Band-Aid at once and say, "You are azzp'er, you are not azzp'er, so that we can go back to protecting those vulnerable people at the bottom, who we all feel are definitely not azzp'er?" Because that's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u103	In theory, I agree with Mr Smeulders. The practice is more uncomfortable. Look at those experts who give so many different judgments about the assessment of what an employment relationship is. It's not black and white, it's not digital, there's a continuum in here from very clearly on one side and very clearly on the other side, but there's a very large group between which it's really unclear and for which you really need to have more handle, more clarity to interpret and maintain that. Hence the web module, hence the criteria and hence the need to test it. That's one. Two, pull that Band-Aid off at once. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. For example, we have reduced tax differences, precisely because we see that at the bottom of the labour market cost differences can be caused by taxation, but also by no social security contributions and by no employment protection, i.e. no right of dismissal or transition. On all these elements we are reducing the differences. Because we have reduced the self-employed deduction, we are engaged in disability insurance forzzp'ers and thanks to the Labour Market Act in balance with a transition fee from day one, also for flex contracts. So steps have been taken, but I agree with Mr Smeulders: I would have liked to go further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr Stoffer and then Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u105	In the written reply, the Minister states that at the end of this year we will receive a letter on compulsory invalidity insurance. That's good. I look forward to it. My question is whether this really looks at opt-out possibilities for that group that really is an entrepreneur, which the Minister has just mentioned. My very specific question is this: do you take it with you, and above all not scary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u106	I am simply sticking to the text of the pension agreement and to the expression of it with the trade union and employers. It is true that there is a generous opt-out for people who already have a different disability scheme, or among themselves, as is often the case in agriculture and horticulture. That is indeed part of the agreements we have with each other and of the impact. Two points apply. One is, can we do it? 'Cause it presupposes that the tax authorities have information on which other insurance someone has. Can we get that out of the system of insurers, for example? That's kind of complicated. The other thing is: it must also remain affordable. After the risk selection, it should be a large group in order to keep it affordable for all participants. Those are two conditions that have also been given by your Chamber in other motions. But these are the frameworks in which we work that out. At the end of this year, I would like to send a progress letter to your Chamber on this point. It remains, of course, extremely complicated, also because we know that it will take a number of years for it to be introduced. But those are the frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan. Then there is Mr Gijs van Dijk and then there is Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'd take that microphone, because it's tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u109	It's really for big, heavy people, because you have to step on the pedal really hard. We're gonna do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u110	I'm getting the urge to give it a try now anyway! Anyway, there's gonna have to be another one cleaned. I'd still like to come back to the pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u111	Can you talk a little more into the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u112	I'd still like to come back to the pilot. In the first test variant we have already seen that there is no clear answer. It's not yes or no. There's a lot of contradictions in it. I've asked questions about that, too. I do not hear the Minister reply to that. We have asked: should we not tighten up the pilot targets and the evaluation criteria, so that we can actually carry out the pilot properly and, when it is completed, there is also a web module that really works? That's my first question. Maybe I can put my second question to you right away. I also hear the Minister say that the start of enforcement starts in October at the earliest. Can I assume it doesn't start before the evaluation is properly discussed in the Chamber? 'Cause otherwise we're really gonna put people in trouble, and we shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u113	The second question is very easy to answer: yes, we're going to do the pilot first and then we're going to see what comes out of it. We are going to see if there are any uncertainties or contradictions in it that we need to deal with. That's why the letter says: at least October 1st. The pilot runs for six months, so until July 1. So we have July, August and September to do this and to discuss this with your Chamber. But that is a tight timetable, I say. We know how these processes are going, so "at least 1 October" is already ambitious. But I have also listened very carefully to other parts of your Chamber. I can see Mr Gijs van Dijk standing there. He says, "You should start now." I'm trying to find a bit of a middle ground in there anyway. Then there is the second point. The pilot so far and the comments of the experts we have engaged to assess this show that there is a great heterogeneity. We have developed a system in which the different criteria in the legislation or in the case law come up with certain points. A sum of those points indicates "you can perform your job as a zzp'er" or, if someone has a lot of points, "this is very similar to an employment contract." But there is also a grey area in between, where it is not clear. Then people get the tip to call the IRS and ask: how am I supposed to do this in practice? This has to do with the fact that the facts and circumstances determine the situation as to whether you can do something as an employee or as an employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u114	It's practical at this point, though. If it doesn't appear from the web module and people have to call the IRS, how do we know for sure that the employee they get on the phone will give the right answer? Because if it were that obvious, it would have been in the web module.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u115	Step one is the web module. If you have a certain number of points and you are in the right category, then you also get security in advance. That's what we're trying to do. Then you get, as it were, a statement, in the sense of: you may perform this job as a self-employed person and there is no risk that you will later be faced with pay or that kind of thing. That's a profit, because we don't have that right now. So that's better than what we have now. In addition, there remains a grey area. You're having a discussion with the IRS about that. But what we still have are the so-called sector agreements. These have been created by sectors since the DBA Act and they specifically take into account a sector and the structure of a sector, which makes it possible to do so. That could be an example of how the Tax Administration can say coaching and informing: this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u117	But this is still a very complicated discussion. That is why the opinion of the Borstlap Committee is very clear: you are not only there with a web module; you must also take steps in other areas, such as costs, labour law and tax differences, to find an answer to the question "what is the cheapest for me?" ........................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr Gijs van Dijk and then Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yesterday we sat here in the plenary room and then it was beautiful autumn weather, with a beautiful sun, really such an Indian summer. But today it's raining. This means that here, under the plenary room, several deliverers are waiting so that they don't get wet; but they are also waiting for an assignment without getting an income for it. When they deliver an assignment somewhere, they are often not even protected if something would happen. We have known this for many years and we have talked about it many times. The coalition agreement also had good ambitions, which we also supported. Then we put the Tax Administration to work: let us take those sectors that we know will not happen. There's not a single fine handed out. That's really weird. Coaching talks have been held. Can't we tell each other, here and now, that we're ordering the Tax Administration to maintain where there's proven work that isn'tzzp work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u120	I have to laugh a little, because I have to think of last summer when the FNV, supported by Mr Gijs van Dijk, brought a lawsuit against one of these meal delivery guys and the FNV lost that case. So it's not that obvious. After that, a case was won against the same company, in which, of course, we never talk about individual matters in this Chamber. So you can see that in the same summer, at the same canton court in Amsterdam, there were two opposing statements, because the question was just different. Let there be no misunderstanding: I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk's analysis and his direction. That was also in the coalition agreement. I have really tried my hardest to work that out, either through ALT, or through a minimum rate or in other ways, in order to increase protection for this group of workers. We are still working on that, for example with the platform workers, as I mentioned two weeks ago. But the fact that this is so incredibly complex in law also indicates that it is not a question of "let's just go and keep it, then it's solved." It just isn't. Apart from that, the Tax Administration did do book searches in the risk sectors and made enforcement visits. But it is not a matter of: you know what, we impose a fine and then it's resolved. I'm afraid it doesn't work that way anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u121	I heard the minister say he can't indicate whether the number of false constructions has increased or not. That surprises me somewhere, because I think I remember doing a quick scan of the WAB that showed, among other things, that the WAB has that effect. We have made flex more expensive, because we all wanted to, but the effect is also an increase inzzp, where you can question whether the real independent entrepreneurs are the way we all love them, or whether it is not the vulnerable group that is put into this construction. My question is actually about that last point, namely the complexity of maintaining and qualifying on the basis of the results of the web module. If labour law is as complicated as the Minister says, would it not be good to consider, alongside the web module, what could be done in the legislation to simply clarify this concept? I have asked for the Belgian system to be included if necessary. If the web module and current case law do not solve everything, then we need to go back to the basis and at least see if we can tighten up the legislation on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u122	Three answers. One: yes, we have looked at the Belgian system. The Belgian system is based on nine criteria. Those nine criteria are all in the web module of the Netherlands. That web module is a little more sophisticated, because it's a little less rude. Of course, the fact that these criteria match is not so strange either, because we are also partly dealing with European case law and a European framework. Think also of the opinion of the Borstlap Committee on this point. That is the environment in which all countries have to work. The second is that we have asked ourselves: what law could you easily amend to make this clearer? The answer to that is often to my frustration: no idea. That is also a bit the answer to all those people who have come to me over the last two years with the request to modernise labour law. Then I say: excellent idea, very good, that's what I'm for, but how? Then it is very often very quiet, I have noticed over the last two years. The question with the web module is also: this was also a question in the first term: what are important criteria that emerge from case law, from lawsuits, and which determine whether it is a contract of employment or whether it is the work that can be done as a self-employed person. Can we take these criteria out and give them good weight, so that in the vast majority of cases we can identify whether something is allowed to be done as an undertaking or whether there really is a contract of employment? Then, once we have ended enforcement monitoring, we can send the Tax Administration to enforce this in practice. If we do this too soon, this is in line with Mr.Gijs van Dijk's question, again there is a lot of unrest inzzp-land and with the clients, who are going to say "well, I'm not doing anything anymore" or "I'm going to hire an intermediary to organize this," as this happened in 2016 with the DBA Act. The final point was about the figures. At the Labour Market Balance Act there was a qualitative quickscan, based on interviews and signals. We have not yet been able to see in the figures that there has been a significant increase in false self-employment. In any case, we have not been able to find any evidence of this in the figures. We have also seen that the number ofzzp'ers did not increase very much until February. It has increased in recent months, but it may also have to do with people who have lost their jobs starting as self-employed people. But we can't quite determine that yet. That is why my comment to Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk, who said this in the first term, was that we do not have those figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u123	Just a little more time. It is good that the Minister nuances that and explains what the figures are. The beauty of this Belgian system is, perhaps, to consider, that there is also a sector-by-sector analysis of possible additional criteria per sector. Then you can make that distinction and tailor-made. The examples that show that it is complicated to adapt our labour law, which dates back to 1906 or 1907, I believe. But among others a number of labour lawyers have made a proposal in the Code of Work. So there are ideas. I think it's very good to look at that in parallel with that web module.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u124	That's Ruben Houweling's. That is very interesting and it is also very challenging work. We certainly included this in the opinion, as did the Borstlap Committee. That is a valid point. On the second point, on sectors and customization: yes. That is also a bit the answer to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan's questions. That is why sector agreements have occasionally been made. We want to continue to make it possible. Some sectors have very specific circumstances, such as orchestral players in the arts and culture sector, and have made very good agreements. You see, we're right in the middle of this. Block three, chairman: pensions. That's my favorite cube. Now we're going to have a nice and technical hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mrs. Van Brenk is ready, I see. So are Mr. Van Kent and Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr Van Rooijen is currently in the Upper Chamber! Mr President, the block of pensions. We are very busy with legislation on the renewal of the pension system. Over the last two weeks we have dealt with the increase in the AOW age and we have dealt with the heavy professions and the possibility of withdrawing an amount suddenly on retirement. Once again, these proposals were adopted unanimously by your Chamber. This also indicates the importance of concluding such an agreement with the social partners and with broad social and political support, in order to take these steps forward. The cabinet aims to bring into force the legislation for the new pension system on 1 January 2022. For example, all pension schemes can take so long by 2026 at the latest; so complex is that the whole process has been adapted to a more personal, modern and transparent pension system. The pension agreement also includes agreements on a less rapid increase in the AOW age. Two laws have already been dealt with. The heavy-duty professions have also been dealt with. That's all accepted. Mr De Jong called on me the day before yesterday to avoid the pension reductions for the next five years. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked what I am doing to remove the concerns of pensioners about reducing pensions. We are in consultation with social partners, trade unions, employers, the Pension Federation, the Association of Insurers, supervisors DNB and AFM to establish the transition ftk and consultation document for the legislation. Overall, pension funds remain dependent on developments in financial markets for their results. Over the past two weeks, we have also seen very special developments in this regard. The news of the vaccines has led to a huge blow to the stock markets. As a result, the coverage rates for most pension funds again exceeded 90%, I read the day before yesterday in Het Financieele Dagblad. But as long as interest rates are low and the recovery of the stock market is limited, it can never be guaranteed that all discounts can be avoided completely. I have said that a number of times in your Chamber. I'd love to make that promise, but I can't keep it. But I did say in a letter to your Chamber a few weeks ago that we are, of course, working on a new system. With the look of the new system, I actually want to look back at the current situation. How are we going to find a responsible, balanced and transparent solution to the new situation? The side light is then avoided unnecessary discounts, but also: what do you do with the premium? Because if the premium in the new system does not have to rise, why would you do so now in the current system? These are all important, complex, technical effects, which will soon be shared with your Chamber in December. At the same time, perhaps a little earlier, I publish the announced exemption scheme, which is based on the 90%, in popular terms. It's technically a little more complicated, through the MVEV and the VEV. However, the exemption scheme does not actually require a reduction in coverage of 104.3%, which would normally be the law "that's the financial review framework law "but assumes the 90% coverage rate' also agreed in the pension agreement. This discussion about discounts and levels of coverage proves once again that the current system is on its last breath and that we must move towards a new pension system that is much less dependent on the interest rate, from which this calculation rate is derived, Mrs Van Brenk will be very pleased with this and in which the coverage debate is also a thing of the past. That is why we are working hard on this new legislation. We want to start the consultation phase in December. So there is also the path of growth called the transition-fk-fk-fk-fk- and the legislative proposal, but also the debate on governance, for example on how do we involve all participants, young, old and retired, in the transition from the current system to the new system? So I'll come back to that soon. This has already been the block of pensions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u127	I thought the minister was gonna make me happy, because he said, "I'm gonna look back." But now it turns out he's only looking back for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u128	I can really talk about this for hours, Mrs. Van Brenk...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u129	He doesn't look at the twelve years of indexing that hasn't been done. I can hear him say: I'm going to see how we can make sure that we avoid as much misery as possible. But I can already see that it is announced that the construction is being reduced, that the premium is going up and that there is a threat of reductions. And that's very soon. That's already there. Now pension funds are announcing that. So the deteriorations are already there. Is the Minister gonna do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u130	I'm just trying to keep things from getting mixed up. It's really nuanced. You have to pull things apart. One. We now find that a lot of funds currently, in the current system, under the current legislation, count with a reduced premium, as it is called. This means that they expect more returns to be achieved when they determine the premium. The premium coverage rate for many funds is therefore often well below 100%. This is actually detrimental to pensioners and the elderly, because, as it were, more pension rights are being distributed than contributions are being paid. That has been the case for years. We actually want to get rid of that. We also want to get rid of this in the pension agreement. Two. The interest rate is very low. And when interest rates are low, you also need to invest more in order to achieve a certain goal. I have now said that, in the new system, we are going to count on, as it were, a projection return, with expected returns likely to be higher than risk-free interest rates. I believe that, in the coming years, you can also take this into account in the transition from the current system to the new system. I mean, you're already taking that ahead of the new system, because we made those agreements with each other. If we then find that, in a new system, in which you can count on a projection return, too little premium is paid for the ambitions or expectations that are generated for the participants, then you have to correct that. This can be done in two ways: pay more premium, or communicate more clearly about your ambitions. I'm afraid I can't make it any better. That's the situation we're in. However, we must look back at the current situation with the new system in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u131	This minister can easily make it much more beautiful, but he simply refuses. He himself mentioned the adjustment of that accounting rate. I have another point to make. At the round table we had as a Chamber, we had Mr Lutjens and Mr Van Meerten reflect on how they look at the legal sustainability of entry and the new system. Is it a form of expropriation or not? There we have two professors and two opinions, and they are really opposed. The question is: how is this minister going to ensure that not all these pension funds will get involved in a legal procedure which will later prove that this is simply not possible and that it is a form of expropriation? How are we gonna make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u132	First of all, by abandoning the term "expropriation." There is no question of expropriation at all. There is talk of converting a pension fund into assets, I would say. That's what happens. There's no expropriation of anything. The money remains with pension funds and pension fund members. That in the first place. Secondly, Mrs Van Brenn is right. I happen to have seen that piece of Mr Lutjens and Mr Van Meerten looking back. I didn't get to see the whole hearing, but I did get to see that part. Of course, we also asked Mr Lutjens to make a legal analysis of this when the pension agreement was concluded. The past few years have of course seen this more often. For example, the Council of State has looked at what the abolition of the average premium means for compulsoryization and that kind of question. The European legal and legal test is extremely important and must be done very carefully. I also find it very interesting that as a Chamber, you have asked both gentlemen to send a paper on how to take that into account. So do we. We have also drawn in all the advice and all the scholars to take a good look at this. I agree with Mrs Van Brenk that it cannot be that there is all kinds of ambiguity about this. The tricky thing is that lawyers always say, "In the end, it's up to a judge." That will always be the situation. But that this must be done carefully and also transparent and explainable for all members of pension funds is paramount. I think we are simply agreed on this and we should not allow any misunderstandings to be made about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u133	However, I would like to return to the word the Minister does not want to hear, 'expropriation'. It is true that it really matters how we enter and whether everyone gets their fair share. That's a form of expropriation if you don't get your fair share.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u134	That's exactly the point: if... then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u135	He's just talking through it, Mr. Chairman. I get that. It's incredibly frustrating, but this is the essence. This is also the main point that needs to be clarified in advance. One says to the other "now a very large part goes from young to old" and vice versa. Everyone has their own truth, but that clarity must be there. Until that clarity is established, we are still convinced that the elderly will be greatly affected here if they have to go under the current Ftk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u136	Still, in all sharpness: "elderly duped" is really something other than expropriation. I'd like to make that distinction. I agree with Mrs Van Brenk: I do not want older people to be hurt, I believe that it should be transparent and that very clear rules should be laid down in advance transparently for all participants, i.e. pensioners, older workers and young people, so that this is done in a very clear and transparent way. We both agree on that. It must be crystal clear in advance to avoid noise and to avoid a discussion about expropriation. We have a retirement fund now. There's power in that. That ability belongs to the participants. It's not yours or mine; it's the contestants'. It is indeed about the distribution of that pot of money. There are claims to that pot of money now. We're gonna convert them into capabilities. This transposition is very good, very clear, very transparent and very fair. We made a deal about that. That's what supervisory frameworks are for. We have all kinds of demands on how to do that. We are also still discussing governance. This was also addressed in the hearing: how do we ensure that the participants can have a say in this? This applies to all sections, including pensioners and workers. That's what we're working out with each other, and that's gonna be coming up to your room soon. Then we are going to have a good debate, a good discussion about whether there are sufficient guarantees, whether it is transparent enough and whether we can explain it very clearly to everyone and everything involved. But I really think that saying that this is expropriation is causing unnecessary unrest. I don't think you should. But I agree that this must be done transparently and clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u137	Pension agreement or not, there are millions of people who have worked or worked in health care, as a teacher, as a police officer, in a shop or in metal and who have for years already had a pension or pension structure that does not go up with the prices and which now even have a pension that is likely to be cut. In the coming years, this threat and this problem will continue to exist. Doesn't the Minister find it impossible that at the same time there are directors of these pension funds and of these pension administrators who think that they should fill their pockets and that it is fair that they should go home with €600,000, while they simply do their job there, without risking themselves, a financial risk? In fact, if things go wrong, they just get a golden handshake. Does the Minister not think it is completely bizarre that this is still the case and does the Minister agree with the SP that we should set a limit there, namely the Top Income Standards Act, the beaming standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u138	I was very honored with the Koolmeescup. It's on SP.nl. I thought that was a creative find from the SP. Mr Van Kent knows how I feel about this. I have also answered this in the written set. It is really up to the pension administrators, the unions, the employers to determine the remuneration. I think you should make a distinction between the pension fund directors who deal with the scheme and the implementation, and the people who implement the pension scheme among the financial market players. Those are the APGs and MN services of this world. I think those are really two separate worlds. One manages the remuneration policy and all those issues. Mr Van Kent knows my answers. They're also in the written set. I really think this is a matter for the trade unions and employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u139	Oh, Mr. Van Kent doesn't have to anymore. Okay. Then I suggest the Minister continue. I understand that there has been a legislative consultation on integration. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u140	Yes, but Mr De Graaf has asked a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u141	Yes, of course. He's there, too, so he's listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u142	Yeah, he's here. I would therefore like to respond to his questions. In part, I have already replied to this in the written set. I now come to block four, integration and integration. Indeed, there was a six-hour legislative consultation last week. But questions have been asked. To start with the acid: unfortunately, last week I found that the new law on integration, which had been adopted in your Chamber with 147 seats, has to be postponed for six months. This has to do with implementation problems. We're not doing that for nothing. Following signals from DUO, Divosa and other chain partners, it appeared that the planned introduction date of 1 July 2021 involved too many risks. That led me to the conclusion: then we should not do it; then we should move it forward for six months until 1 January 2022. Unfortunately, the Corona crisis has put pressure on the available capacity of all parties involved to prepare. We therefore opt for care, because it will benefit the most from such a complex system change that we have in the integration system. Because it's really very complex. Mr De Graaf has asked a number of questions about integration. I would like to refer to the annual report published last week, actually biennial, of the CBS on integration. Those CBS figures really give a very rich picture of what's going on with "the integration" in the Netherlands. I think that is a terrible term, because it doesn't mean anything. But we see, for example, that the educational position and labour market position of Dutch people with a migration background in the past five, six, seven years is really going well and improves year by year. We have seen this development since 2014 and this development is continuing. Dutch people with a migration background get an ever higher school advice and have an ever higher school performance, including HBO and university. For the sake of clarity, this is not the condition for successful participation. There are fewer and fewer differences in the labour market. There is increasing participation and lower unemployment. So all in all, it is good news, because that makes people less vulnerable when they are economically uncomfortable. We know from the past that people with a non-western background often get the first blows when the economy turns. Jobs are then lost, because a lot of people, for example, are on a flex contract and are the first to lose their jobs. We have often had discussions about this in the Committee on Integration, however, that the position of Dutch people with a migration background is still more vulnerable in the Dutch labour market. Even in the case of equal training, we still see things as discrimination, for example, but also exclusion. That is why we have created the Further Integration Programme in the Labour Market. In doing so, we want to look at good ways of dealing with the backlogs and ensuring that everyone can participate and get opportunities. I also informed the Chamber about these results. Mr De Graaf has asked a number of questions about Islam. It happens more often that Mr De Graaf asks these questions, but I thought it was special this time. I do not agree with a great deal of what Mr De Graaf says. That's obvious. We've been through that a lot. I'm gonna distance myself from that, too. But with a few words from him on Tuesday, I very much agree, namely that most Muslims in the Netherlands simply live according to the law, participate in and want to participate in our free society. I also agree that a large part of the Muslim community in the Netherlands is the first victim of extremism and polarisation. Because integration is indeed about living together. Integration is also about the foundation that makes living together possible in freedom: our democratic rule of law. Our democratic rule of law must be protected, because it does not protect itself. That's what we have to do. Here in this house, too, we have to do it together. That is why, during this cabinet period, there has been a move towards better protection of the democratic rule of law against radicalisation, extremism and terrorism, for example through the creation of the Task Force on problematic behaviour, together with colleagues from Justice, Education and Foreign Affairs, but also with the services, the AIVD, and with the large municipalities where this problem manifests itself and, for example, by fighting salafistic drivers. Various threat reports by the NCTV show that there are extremist expressions, aimed at undermining the constitutional institutions, anti-integrative behaviour and also at obstructing democratic processes, whether or not funded with money from abroad. As regards the parliamentary interrogation committee on POCOB, on foreign influence, the concerns of that committee are well founded. We are now in the process of finalizing the cabinet response. You'll get it soon. In the written set a few specific questions, including figures, were asked by Mr De Graaf. I sent it to your room last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you to the Minister for replying, but there is a slight distortion of my words. I'd like to make that right. I didn't talk about the "most" Muslims, but about a "flink part." Of course, we know that 70% of the voting Turks in the Netherlands are voting for Erdogan. We also know that 70% still puts the religious rules, the Sharia rules, above our Dutch secular laws and thus also above our culture. So we have a huge problem with Islam in the Netherlands. A large part is indeed quite a number of people who want to. They are not waiting for Islamisation either, but they want to live here freely. I think that's a good part of it. The other part did not come across well, namely that the Minister says to distance himself from it and to think differently about it. No, it's about facts. I know that part very well. The minister doesn't know that part and he often finds it uncomfortable to talk about it. I can see that from his non-verbal attitude. But that is of course not the end of the discussion, because we still have a huge problem with Islam and Islamization in the Netherlands. We also see that in the behavior of many Muslim men who, based on the orders from the Koran, increasingly besieged municipalities in the Netherlands. We've seen it this summer. In more and more municipalities you see the image of a non-working assimilation, of totally not integration, but of a parallel society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u144	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u145	In the written reply, the Minister says that he is going to give money to the municipalities to organise meetings. Then it's over? These meetings are organized by the people themselves, only a large part of those people have a knife in their back pocket. That is the integration reality in the Netherlands. I want the Minister to reflect on that and take that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u146	I find it interesting that Mr De Graaf takes the word 'facts' in his mouth. That is why I also referred to the Annual Report on Integration of the CBS, which contains 200 pages of facts and tables. However, the main conclusion is that things are going very well and better in many areas. These are facts established by the independent CBS. Where my greatest discomfort is, often the words of Mr De Graaf himself are that this discussion is conducted continuously from generalities and groups and that the individual is never looked at. Never is the individual addressed to his behavior and actions. What I really think is the profit of the past few years, including with the creation of the task force, is that we are increasingly able to tackle the radical elements, the drivers, more effectively and to put a stop to them in order to protect our democratic rule of law and to protect those who are the first to suffer from these drivers. That's more targeted. That's not about generalities, it's about people who stifle it in our country. I am very positive that we have been able to take these steps, including to protect the people who live their lives and are doing better in education and in the labour market, from these radical elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u147	Such a report is very nice, but I'm not trusting those reports. There are facts in it, but they are based on the idea of inclusion. The Dutch need to step aside from the huge flow of migrants. Sure, within those groups, the level of education will be raised a bit. We also know that the level of education itself is being reduced a little, so the question is where the truth lies. But then I wonder if the minister ever comes out. Does he ever look on the street? Does he ever talk to the people who experience it? I identified all these problems in my first term and last week during the legislative consultation. There are so many Dutch people who suffer from that multicultural society. They suffer from it. You'll only be the last in the porch in Escamp, with ten Bulgarians and Romanians over your head, a sexy sheep next to you and Islamic whining under you. You're 74 or 75 years old and you're the last Dutchman there. There's so many of them. But I also named the young girls who are being chased on the street. And then the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau or the CBS can say in a report that integration is doing much better, but it is not doing better. We have a parallel society. That gap is getting bigger and bigger, and that is because the borders are open. Much harder action must be taken against the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood and against the political jihad that is taking place there. This is literally happening at GroenLinks towards the Chamber; we talked about this this week. It's going really hard. Those facts come from that ideology. I am not concerned about those groups, but about the ideology behind them, which is carried out very hard by a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr. De Graaf, this is not an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u149	The Minister is blind to that. I want the Minister to act harder on this and be clearer about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u150	You have made that clear, including in your contribution. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u151	In the written set I answered the questions about the Muslim Brotherhood. It was a recurring question from Mr De Graaf and I answered it. I'm giving two answers now. If you look at migration in the Netherlands in recent years, you can see that most of the EU comes to work through free movement in the Netherlands. Out of my mind, it was 100,000 people in 2019. Then there are 100,000 people from knowledge immigrant schemes, who are focused on people like researchers and people for the ASMLs of this world. These people, for example, do research and use the knowledge migrants' scheme. Together, these are 200,000 people who come to the Netherlands to work here and support sectors. Without it, sectors such as agriculture, horticulture, transport and distribution centres would not have enough people. That's one. That's up against 16,000 refugees in 2019. Here too, it is good to take the nuances and the facts, in the words of Mr De Graaf. Secondly, I live in Rotterdam. That's a very diverse, beautiful city. Rotterdam is very diverse in its composition, and has flourished under that composition in recent years. And of course there are problems. I don't deny them at all; I never did. I've just always wanted to stress that this is about individuals. It's about people personally and dealing with wheeldrivers, not putting people away as part of a group. I'm sticking to that, including in my policy. In the end, this is what we are talking about in our democratic rule of law. The actions and judgments and behaviour of an individual must be assessed, not those of a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u152	You have made that clear, too. I suggest you go to some sort of rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u153	Yeah, the lock. I have two other points under the heading. The first concerns a question from Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan about stopping funding for the Craft Academy project. It was about exploiting employment opportunities in small-scale crafts. By June 2021, the justification of the project should be ready. So that's the middle of next year. On this basis, we identify efficiency and cost-effectiveness. I think it's a very nice initiative. The initiators were Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Heerma and it was then taken over by Wiersma, Heerma and Mrs Palland. I was allowed to open the academy myself in my first six months as minister. That was way too much honor, because I hadn't done anything about it, but I was allowed to cut the ribbon. Well, that's the privilege of being a minister. I find it very interesting. I was also able to pass the diplomas last year, and I was also able to see how much perspective and opportunities people get and how happy people are about it. So I'm very sympathetic to that. At the same time, I think it's neat to look at: what is the effect, does it also affect our tax dollars that we put in? So we're gonna have to finish those questions nicely. We'll give that image to your room, too. We will send this to your Chamber because I know your Chamber is extremely interested in this Craft Academy. A small correction: the funding stops only with regard to this specific project. For another project, Life Lang Development, funding for the Craft Academy runs until 2023. So that has a little longer time. But we will inform your Chamber about this, knowing that there is a great deal of sympathy for it in many parties. Then, last but not least, Mr Stoffer's question. The last will be the first, so I quote from Matthew, chapter 20. Mr Stoffer asked a question about not widening the gap between one and two earners. Let me peel it off. Mr Stoffer mentions one specific example, about €40,000, I remember. However, in general, the differences in the average tax burden between one and two earners are much less significant. To a moderate income the tax burden is almost the same. That doesn't mean there are no differences. The cabinet has made the tax treatment between one and two-earners more balanced, for example by the flatter rate in the two-wheel system, which has really taken the step towards reducing these differences. For example, it does not matter whether the family income is earned by one or two persons. The cabinet has also addressed the marginal pressure peaks, sometimes faced by earners. Finally, at the request of Mr Bruins, for example, we are calling for 150 million in the cabinet to increase the child-related budget for large families, in order to reduce these differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u154	Then I have Mrs Van Brenn and Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u155	I wasn't too excited about the answer I received from the Minister in writing. This is about supplementary income support for the elderly, the AIO. The answer is that we get an investigation, so about the Social Insurance Bank, the UWV, the exchange, and so on. And all this time, we know that a lot of people need this and don't really know it. So how long is this gonna take, how can we make sure the urgency is there? Congratulations to the Social Insurance Bank, an execution organization, are absolutely beautiful, but it is now necessary to help people, especially these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u156	We had a debate about this three weeks ago in your Chamber, in the Old Hall. At that time it was also about the AOW for Surinamese, for example. There too, I have done what we are all doing to reduce the non-use of the AIO. This concerns targeted information and people who are reminded of the existence of the AIO in the AOW application. But we have found that is not enough. We need to do more to prevent non-use, so we are together with, I say, SVB, UWV and the municipalities in rope to link the data files to make this better shape. We're working hard on that. I don't know the exact details, but I did tell your room what we're doing to prevent non-use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u157	I wanted to go to Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan, but you have a sixth question, Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u158	Yeah, I keep track of them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u159	Soon you won't have any more questions for Mr. Van 't Wout.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u160	No, but she's very fond of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u161	Oh, okay. Sorry, Mr. Van 't Wout.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u162	We have a connection. We're coming out openly. Mr. Chairman. It may be that the officials misunderstood my text, but the reaction here is quite childish. I wanted a response from this minister to the letter from the National Client Council. I said that this should also be done in writing. And the reaction is: of course the cabinet will answer the letter from the LCR in writing. Yeah, that's nice, but I also wanted to know the answers. So are they gonna come, or are we gonna get it in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u163	Maybe we can do that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u164	If we answer the LCR, I would be happy to send a copy of it, if you ask. You want an answer now? That will have to be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u165	I think it is up to me and perhaps I should have asked the question at the first block. I know that this Minister is frequently in consultation with his colleague from Taxation. I think you might talk to him every day. I would very much like to have this Minister's undertaking that the next item is very high on the agenda for consultation. This concerns clarity for dga's on the scheme around the usual pay but also clarity for employers and employees on the working expenses scheme and travel expenses. It is still six weeks until 1 January, and it is very important that that clarity is made quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u166	That's right. There are two troikas, the great troika and the small troika. The contact with the small troika is exemplary. We do talk every day. The written set did say that we're taking this with us. I think we should return to that in the letter that we will send at the end of November or early December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u167	Fine. Mr Stoffer, but I also see Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u168	I always tell you too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u169	No, I'm fine. Rather too much than too little, in terms of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u170	It does progress with D66 when they even quote from the Bible in these debates. That was beautiful. The continuation of that text is "many have been called, few have been chosen." Anyway, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u171	It's gonna be some kind of Segersje. His quote from Elsschot was "between dream and act stand in the way of laws and practical preservation."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u172	Anyway, actually, I want to talk about something quite different, namely mourning leave. I received an answer to my question on this in the written reply. It is very good that the Minister is going to do more research, but Mr Smeulders and I would very much like to see the following. There's a gap in knowledge. We agree on that. That's why we're investigating. We would like to see this also lead to the creation of that centre of expertise, not as a result of that research, but in order to really shape and shape that research. I think that'll speed it up. My question is: doesn't the Minister see this accelerator as just a big deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u173	Now you're asking me a little bit. Would it be okay if I returned to that in the second term? I know we're going to ask TNO to add questions about mourning leave. In response to Mr Smeulders' motion and you, we have also developed a hand-off for employers so that they can deal with this better. "A centre of expertise" doesn't ring a bell to me. I'll have to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u174	I'll make it quick. We've got a motion in preparation and we're filing it. If the Minister is going to give a ruling on the Chamber, I think that is an excellent response in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u175	Okay. Then I will go to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u176	I'm still chewing on two points after the answer. Those dots are separate from the last block. The first is what I heard the Minister say about support I had asked for for artists and professional athletes on a contract of employment that resembles a fictitious employment. There was a referral, but I hope that the implementation of the Christian Union motion on sex workers will really see what more we can do. The purpose of that motion is also to do something extra. My first question would be: can we use this to arrange something for the group of musicians, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u177	The secretary of state is about to say something about that. That's a lot from my point of view about municipal customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u178	I am not picky in who answers the question, as long as something is done. My second question concerns flex constructions in which the broadcasting sector is rotated with phase a. This is the case with migrant workers, but unfortunately I think it is also broader. This is also mentioned in the written set and my concern in my contribution was also about this. There's continuous rotation. The collective agreement on the broadcasting sector is also not intended for this purpose. People never get into the next phase of security. This also concerns the way in which the broadcasting clause is handled. I would actually like a commitment that the Minister will come up with options on this particular point to prevent this. I can assume that the broadcasting sector too is very unhappy and wants to limit this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u179	That's right. These are, in particular, malicious temporary employment agencies. So that is not the vast majority of the market, but a specific part that keeps people in phase a continuously. This is particularly true of migrant workers, because people do not know exactly what their rights are and are then actually being scammed. This is also reflected in Mr Roemer's opinion. This concerns the better protection of migrant workers. It is also reflected in the research that we ourselves have carried out in the broadcasting sector. The response to Mr Roemer's report comes out of my mind for the AO of 15 December. I'll take this with you, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u180	That's good. I would also like to see ways of doing something concrete about this. I also get signals, for example from FNV, that stage a is unfortunately more widespread in the broadcasting sector. So I would like to ask not only to do this for those things that are clearly malicious, crooked employment agencies, but also to look more broadly at how we can ensure that better protection is given to people who work in the temporary employment sector for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u181	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I'd like to suspend for about ten minutes. Then we'll continue to answer the questions. Oh, yes, the amendments follow. Then I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u182	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been Secretary of State for four and a half months now. So I think it would be a good idea to look back in detail for an introduction. No, I won't. I'll spare you that. I'm allowed to be missionary for a total of nine months. In real life, very special things can happen in nine months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u184	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u185	At least I am doing my best to do so, but the possibilities are of course limited, especially when it comes to more structural things. Corona alone, of course, obliges us to do a lot on a daily basis. I'd be happy to do that. I fully agree with the compliments that the Minister gave to all the implementing organizations and to our officials, who are really working hard on it. I also agree that it simply means that not everything can always be done. We're asking a lot of questions, and there's a lot of hard work going on. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few things about the aid and recovery package, then about poverty and debt and then briefly a few things about the broad offensive. We're going to be happy about that law soon; I'm very happy about that. Then I have a bit about working at home and then I have a block with some other subjects, which doesn't say anything about the importance of these subjects. First of all, the aid and recovery package, particularly on the Tozo and between shore and ship. It has often been about the partner test in this Chamber; it is also about this now. It was said: it is a austerity. It was introduced in the summer. It wasn't part of the third Tozo. A lot of parties keep saying, "Turn that thing off." I also had a debate in the Upper Chamber with the Minister last week. That's where the call was made. I said at the time in the First Chamber: pay attention, because if you look at the content of the partner test, it really means a lot to the execution if you take it out again. They're asking us not to. I also offered to the First Chamber to figure out what that means when you do this. 'Cause it seems like sometimes the image lives that that thing doesn't exist anymore when you uncheck it somewhere. That's not true. Together with VNG and Divosa, I have therefore described the whole process in order to give the Chamber an insight into what that means. I really think we need the capacity of municipalities at the moment for other things: to guide people to work, but certainly also when it comes tozzp'ers, for which we are now making extra money available to guide them to another job or perhaps to organise their business differently, so that they can continue to earn their money. I'm really committed to putting our energy into that. Of course, that doesn't change the fact that there are people who get into trouble. By the way, this is broader thanzzp'ers who now receive no support from the partner test in the Tozo. We can see that ourselves. I'm talking to the congregations about that. Tomorrow we will again, I say, be sitting at the table with them on that subject. We are looking for a way to help people who have a severe income drop and, for example, very high fixed costs, which they do not just get rid of at once. I can see that this can be a problem especially in the big cities if you have an expensive rental house there. I've talked to entrepreneurs who happened to me. They said: I get the Tozo, for which I am very grateful, but I have been renting an apartment in the centre of Rotterdam for a long time. The minister lives there, I live in a small village where it is not very expensive, but an apartment in the centre of Rotterdam is of course very expensive. The entrepreneur said, "I'm just gonna have to get out of there soon, 'cause I can't afford it anymore." But in a city like Rotterdam you don't just have another home. That's one of those situations where we want to see what we can do there. That will be really custom-made, which also requires a lot of jigsaw puzzles about its precise implementation. But you can't keep doing that forever. But take it from me that we're really serious about that. We have, of course, already included in the support and recovery package extra money for the special assistance, which already allows municipalities to act on this kind of thing. Maybe that's a route, maybe there's another route. But I'm really intrinsically motivated to do something about this. I believe that the Minister has said this in the letter of late November/beginning of December, and I think that he will let the Chamber know how we see it and how we are going to do it. It's not easy, but we want it. That was the block of Tozo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mr Van Kent has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u187	Of course, I am very sympathetic to all these implementation problems, but I am much more sympathetic to all those people who are obliged by the government to stop their work and then knock on the door for help in vain. I ask the Secretary of State to come up with a solution to these implementation problems. As an interim solution, the SP has proposed to take a partner test on, for example, one and a half modes. I understand that complex arrangements can be found out. But the abolition of the partner test is, of course, very simple. Because that means that the municipalities no longer have to take a test. That's nothing new, it's not a new plan that the SP launches here, it was already in the first support package. This is going to mean for thousands and thousands of people the difference between government support as a sacrifice for all of us, and food banks and payroll. I really appeal to the Secretary of State: not only look at the problems and the indiscretions, but find a solution for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u188	One: of course, like Mr Van Kent, I sympathise first and foremost with the people who are talking about this. We will all know them in our own environment. Those are really more than cold macro figures for all of us. Of course, I'm very comfortable with that. These are often people who have had a thriving business for years and have to close overnight. By the government, but actually by that virus. Almost everyone I speak to in that situation, and that is what I think is very special: I hate it, but I get it, because I also feel that responsibility. I think that's very commendable, but it's still terrible for your undertaking. I still think you're too easy to talk about the partner test. I have written to you a letter of two or three pages on why this is not possible and why I think that we should give the municipalities the room to help these people. They have to put their energy into that. I'm looking for a way we dropped these... In my opinion, that will be wider than just those who don't get a Tozo through the partner test anymore. Even people who have received the Tozo can have a problem with this, because ultimately it is a minimum subsistence allowance. If you were used to earning €4,000 or €5,000 and you fall back to €1,000, that's still a huge blow. We are really looking very hard for how we can reach those people and what we can do about them. I will come back to that in November or December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u189	Please continue. Oh, Mrs. Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u190	My question is also about the Tozo, but on another aspect of it: the border entrepreneurs. We have read in the written reply "thank you" for the information that was shared with us as a Chamber that the Commission considers that the Tozo is not covered by the co-ordination regulation. The cabinet has been able to convince the European Commission of this, because the Commission thought so earlier. Apparently, she doesn't feel that way right now. But additional questions have been asked about freedom of establishment. I am so curious to see how the cabinet will react to this and whether the Chamber can also have access to it. How are we kept informed of the follow-up to this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u191	Yesterday or Tuesday evening after our debate, I received the European Commission's reply at my office. I thought it was nice to send that to you and the First Chamber, because that's what your partymate asked for. You're right. On the first aspect of the discussion, which we have talked about all the time, the European Commission says: we are convinced by the view of the Netherlands, but we have another question. Just give us a moment to really make a very careful answer to that. I'm just a simple shaved historian and there are very complicated legal questions behind this. I'm very willing to share that with your room again, because there's nothing to hide. We have this dialogue with the Commission and I know your commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u192	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u193	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked by several MPs on the approach to youth unemployment. In the written reply, we have set out in detail what we are all doing and what amounts are involved. I tasted the feeling at the Chamber: how do you know that's really gonna work? That is actually a bit of the same discussion we had earlier on the labour market regions: make it work. We have had an approach to youth unemployment before. We know what the most effective measures are, and we have now chosen to do so. For example, I hope to ensure, as we want in all parts of this package, that the release of money will not be in meetings, logos and stationery, but in helping young people, because this group is being hit incredibly hard at the moment. Mr. Chairman. For me, these were the elements relating to the aid and recovery package. I would now like to say a few things about poverty and debt. The whole debt file, which is covered by me, is one of the files on which I am highly motivated. This is mainly due to the campaign we are currently campaigning to call on people to come forward early. I didn't come up with it, but there's a great idea to put people in there to tell their story that they've been through or are still in there. I speak a lot of these ambassadors. Those are incredibly compelling stories. To anyone who thinks "you're only in debt if you're totally irresponsible yourself," I would like to say: please look at that site and read the stories of those people, because then you know that this can happen to all of us. These are very sad and intrusive stories. I love that these people want to share them with us, because it's a lot to tell those stories. I particularly hope that it will help, because we know one thing: we do a lot, we can do a lot, but people often only report very late for help, and then what may have been a small problem at the beginning has become a very big problem at once. Mr Peters asked about such a buy-back fund. He thinks that's an interesting idea. That could be an interesting idea. We work a lot with Schuldenlab now. That is a great institution, with which we recently had the opportunity to sign a debt pact. That now looks at whether there is support for this and what the advantages and disadvantages are. That is what is being looked at seriously. It's not that simple, but it's being investigated. I was just about to make a biblical statement, but Mr Stoffer isn't here right now, so I'm gonna save it for another moment. Mr Peters and Mr Bruins asked about the high interest rates that commercial companies can charge on loans. That is right for all of us to be a thorn in the eye, especially when you read articles about how that sometimes happens. What I think is pretty crazy is that some companies deserve credit instead of the stuff they sell. You know that the question of interest lies with the Minister of Finance. It's been reduced from 14% to 10%. In doing so, you are also looking for a balance between consumer protection and wrong incentives that can result from it, because even at low interest rates you run a risk, namely that people will borrow more. The Minister of Finance is watching that. If I am right, the aim is to make a decision on this matter before 1 March. I think that is also in the plan of Christian Union and Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u194	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u195	Well, I saw Mr. Bruins walking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u196	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u197	As far as the high interest rates are concerned, this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u198	But also...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u199	No, I still have a few points on poverty and debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u200	The question was also whether assistance and minimum wage are covered. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u201	I'll say something about that, although the minimum wage was in itself with the Minister. But I'm gonna try that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u202	You must pay attention, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Then I suggest that the Secretary of State should answer a few questions first. Then I will go to Mr Bruins, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u203	I now happen to come to Mr Jasper van Dijk in this round. In that context, I think I can say something about the minimum wage and everything related to it. Mr Van Dijk referred, among other things, to the Nibud report we have just received. I think he also spoke warm words yesterday about the Nibud as an important institution. That's what I agree with. They also help us with a lot of things, for which I am very grateful. I can do what I can now. I am referring above all to assistance, which is covered by me. In this cabinet period, we are really taking a number of steps, specifically for vulnerable groups. The purchasing power development of the assistance is also a plus in this cabinet period. Maybe less than you'd like, but it's a plus all the time. The August decision-making process always looks at this. My experience is also that there have been almost no Cabinets that have caused a minus there. So there's always a correction mechanism in there. The Minister also appointed what we have done with the child-related budget for the third child, at the insistence of Mr Bruins, among other things. The Central Planning Office has also said that this is a very effective way to combat poverty. That also means a lot to families financially. Because families with many children are particularly vulnerable to poverty. Yesterday, I almost felt as if I was attending the first major election debate and Mr Jasper van Dijk had already become the formatter of the new cabinet. Yeah, we're always willing to do that. But here's what I'm gonna do. I think Mr Van Weyenberg gave a good analysis of that. When it comes to salaries, wages, including minimum wage, and disposable income, the reference was rightly made to the Rabobank. When I was a Member of Parliament, I spoke about this myself. There is a standstill in the wallet, while the economy is growing. That link must be restored. But that's all connected. This is also linked to the whole of the supplement debate. My hands itch over everything and everything, but let's be real about what can be done. We are also preparing for formation in all these areas. I would add that this is really not going to be a simple task and that this really is not something that has been achieved in just a few years. We are doing what is still possible during this period. As part of the whole social package, we are doing a great deal of work on this. Furthermore, I think that the whole discussion that was held the day before yesterday is very interesting and very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u204	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u205	Around the minimum wage I only gave a little more context because I think it is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u206	Mr. Bruins, where are you? Ah, there. After you come Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Peters and Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u207	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answer on usury interest rates. The Minister of Finance is talking about this. Last week he told RTL Z that we should wait for some research, because interest rates shouldn't be too low. Borrowing should not become too attractive. So there's an optimum somewhere. That's what we're all looking for: what makes sense? But the Minister of Finance also said on TV: I can just imagine that we are going to make this temporary reduction permanent. Can we not take an extra step now that we know what finance is thinking about it and not go back to that absurdly high percentage of 14%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u208	We really need to keep the roles clean: I have to refer to the Minister of Finance. I didn't see that TV fragment with him. My information is that the aim is to take a decision on this before 1 March. I find all sorts of things, but it's not up to me. I really refer you to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u209	I shall go to Mr Gijs van Dijk and then to Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u210	My question is about debt. It's really terrible to be in debt. We have way too many people in the Netherlands in debt, so we have to help a lot of people out. One of the things that can help is the CJIB doing that already... is an emergency shutdown procedure. It gives people a break because they don't have to pay those debts for a while. Is the Secretary of State prepared to extend that to other public and semi-public institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u211	Yeah, we're looking at that, for example in the debt pact. You can also see municipalities doing that, for example Amsterdam. Alderman Moorman introduced one. I recently had a meeting, also with Queen Máxima, who did a lot for Debt Lab and was present at the debt pact. The good thing is that the Tax Administration has joined in to help. So we're really busy watching this. Mr Van Dijk also knows very well that it is often not just about financial problems, but at some point also about total stress, which is crippling. I didn't get them ready here, but I recently saw the numbers of letters going back and forth in such a debt path. Then it can help to give people a breath to start with a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u212	That's good to hear. A bit more fundamental, we see the Nibud says that the minimum of existence in the Netherlands is simply too low. The burden is far too high, for example if you're on welfare. But the minimum wage is also too low. I understand the Secretary of State in this role, and it's only been a few months until the election. But he also has another role in the VVD, which he has been doing for a while. He also wrote to the election programme: hot right. I understand the various responsibilities, but I do not think that this programme is so hot on the right, as I said to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan. Yeah, it's nice from the minimum wage, which is 10%. That should of course be much more. On the other hand, assistance is not increased. In fact, it's going down in the next few years. The discharge will be eased. The consideration, which is abhorred by it, is simply rewritten by the VVD. Can this Secretary of State consider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u213	I'd love to, but then we'll have an election debate, because I'm here as Secretary of State. I'm not gonna do that right now. But I'll come see you sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u214	I've been thinking about whether as a heavy boy I should be standing by this microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u215	Well, the middle fits very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u216	Yeah, it suits me. I wanted to respond to the early warning. I want to ask the Secretary of State who he thinks is the first person to realize that someone has payment problems. I'll give you the answer: that's the bank. It can tell if you are red and if you have payment problems. Now, I understand that such a bank should not call the municipality and say: look, Mr. Peters has payment problems; go there. However, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared to consult with banks in general to see if they can call the client and say: there is a municipality, and that is also there for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u217	I think this kind of thing is already happening, but let me check it out. Then come back to that. In any case, I am looking more broadly at how, not only in banks, but in all kinds of places where people might notice that there are payment problems, that we can be there as early as possible and that people can point out the help there is. Think of the general practitioner's education or office. I'm talking to SMB Netherlands myself. They came to me very much and said: "As a small employer we know our staff very well and we often notice that something is going on very quickly. These people get together at family parties and so on. But entrepreneurs find it rather difficult how to handle such a conversation and what you refer someone to." That's where we're developing something. I am very pleased that the SME Netherlands is doing so. This also shows the social involvement of our small and medium-sized enterprises. So this is how we do it in many ways. I have to go over where we stand with banks, but it also seems logical to me to indicate this, because there you can see how the accounts are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u218	Please continue. Oh, no, Mrs. Van Brenk. Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenn. Sorry. Mr Jasper van Dijk and then Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u219	The Secretary of State already called me a reformer of a new cabinet when it came to the minimum wage. Who am I to contradict that? I can't break my day anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u220	Informer, I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u221	Informator.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u222	I hear some rumbling in the margin. The Minister talks about the Van Dijk I cabinet. I'm really gonna blush now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u223	That was about Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u224	Mr. Chairman, you're neutral, aren't you? I suggest we suspend for a while. Yeah, and now it's definitely about Tony van Dijck, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u225	Exactly. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u226	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u227	It's gonna be a little bit of the masked formatter like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u228	With the Van Dijken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u229	So all those executives in the next cabinet have to be called Van Dijk, huh? Good. Back to the content. I always like it when a plan you've made is implemented with a lot of effort. But in this case, I don't mind the Secretary of State mowing the grass under my feet. The Secretary of State, like me, can conclude that there is a majority in the Chamber who wants an increase in the minimum wage. Now I have read in the written answers that they do not want to, because they want to look at everything in its entirety, also in relation to the surcharges and other matters. But in normal Dutch it says: "We don't want it. We're throwing this over the fence. The next cabinet can solve this." I'm gonna give the Secretary of State the floor, and I'm gonna say take your chance. You have a majority of the Chamber behind you. Now make a proposal to increase the minimum wage by 1 January next. Will you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u230	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u231	I am getting more and more excited about Mr Van Dijk as an informant, because if he is going to give me such a role there, I look forward to it: "Make a plan, Mr Van 't Wout." I just said a few words about this. You say there's a majority in the Chamber. I also heard several Members of Parliament here yesterday joining my speech. I think that is what Mr Peters said. He said: 'I can see the motions in this area coming, of course, but for us too, that is a broader issue.' I really agree with that. As sympathetic as I think it is in itself, it has to be in a broader context and I don't think it's wise to do this at once without all the other things. That's certainly true in a corona time. You will also have to be aware of this: we also have a big problem in the Netherlands, especially for small companies. You will also have to take with you all the pressure and costs that the employership entails. We look forward to the formation when that can come together. Then the SP can still enjoy this point throughout the election campaign. I'll give you that again. And who knows what great business we can do after March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u232	I can't deny the latter. You're forcing us to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u233	"You compel us"; I am given so much power over you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u234	We will have to campaign the whole campaign on that minimum wage, because today the Secretary of State refuses to seize the opportunity. That ball's on the dot. There's actually no goalie. Even the VVD is in favour of a higher minimum wage. So he can just shoot him into that open target, because if you peel everything off, all the parties are in favour of an increase in the minimum wage, sec. It is true that parties differ on what happens next to the link or the surcharges, but they all want an increase in the minimum wage. If you combine that with the fact that there is now poverty... the Secretary of State is right to say that we should be on our guard right now because of corona. I say, precisely because of corona, we must now look at the people with the lowest wages and the people in welfare. That should therefore be an extra urgency to sit down together now. Let me conclude by saying: is the Secretary of State prepared to look with those who are in favour of a higher minimum wage to see what can be done in the short term? That's a proposal to sit down at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u235	You know what seems to me to be the orderly road? There will be several motions on this matter tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u236	Tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u237	Sorry. Well, I do have a little bit of lyrics. No, let's keep it up this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u238	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u239	Apologies. Let us see what the outcome of the vote is on this matter and what the assignments that might result from it are for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u240	I expect something from the direction of Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u241	I would like to object to the 'dijkwekering' that we have just had here massively, but I would like to go over the question with the Secretary of State about the purchasing power of welfare recipients. He really says that a negative purchasing power bill rarely came out. However, it is very clear from the figures that the purchasing power of a beneficiary did not increase between 2011 and 2018. Unfortunately, that is where it becomes very technical because the double general tax reduction in the reference minimum wage of the assistance is phased out. We're all making things crazier and crazier around here. Therefore, a plea to simplify taxation. A number of parties have put forward proposals for this. However, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also says in Kansrijk's poverty policy that the number of people in poverty after 2021 is increasing by more than a quarter as a result of the policies already in place. This is also due to the annual reduction in welfare payments. We shouldn't all want this, should we? Right where the misery is greatest, we still drag them into misery. The question is: can we all agree now that we are not going to do so and that we are going to delete this ever-increasing reduction in assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u242	What I referred to were the purchasing power plates that we always use in the August decisions and the Prince's Day papers. That was, I say, memorized though I have the list here, +0.4 this year. The Minister nods, so it's true. He's always a lot better at numbers than me. It is true that this tax measure is identified as having an impact on welfare benefits in high-risk poverty policies. On the other hand, this tax measure serves a different purpose. You know that, too. Here they have a sec look at what this means for the benefits. I asked: what can we do now? We do an incredible deal in this cabinet period. In the four and a half months that remain for me and in the five or six weeks that the Chamber still has, a lot of extra money goes to the municipalities to support these people. And there are all these complicated questions about how to deal with the tax system. Everyone agrees that this is far too complicated. The measure underlying the reduction in assistance is perhaps also a sign of how complicated the tax system has become. That, I say, out of my mind, has to do with the position of one- and two-earners. We all want women to participate more in the labour market and that also pays off. That's also a goal we all have. So it's a huge puzzle to let all those goals we all agree on work against each other a little less. But I really can't fix that in the next four and a half months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u243	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u244	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the broad offensive and the job agreements. I'm trying to be a little short, because I think we're having a legislative discussion on this in a week and a half. There was reference to critical reports on this. The broad offensive is a first answer to that. Mr Renkema and others also asked about the figures of Cedris who came out. I sent you an extensive letter. It shows how these differences can arise: Cedris looks at other things than the indicators we have agreed to with Cedris in the employment agreements with all of us. But I actually agree much more with Mr Renkema's words: let's not have endless discussions about the measurement systems, but let's talk about how, especially at this time, we keep people who are remote from the labour market to work, and let's talk about how we give a lot more people that chance. I have, and this was not necessarily due to the Cedri report because I had already intended to do so, all the parties involved, the social partners, to sit down with each other this year to see what is needed in the short term to keep people in place. By the way, we have also spent extra money on this. It would be a shame if that were to fall away. Often it has been a very long journey to enable people to do so. We also know that when they fall out of there again, the relapse is often very large and that it takes a very long time for people to get back to the level they are at. We're already doing something about that as a cabinet. I'm gonna have that conversation with all the parties involved. Furthermore, given the short time available, but also a little in this context and also in the context of assistance, I am still working on what we can do about the many multi-problem families. We can see that in the social domain, especially in the welfare sector, there is a overlap of youth care and ggz care among many people. There are examples of families, and we all know the pictures of them, which are surrounded by a lot of aid workers and where a lot of money goes, sometimes more than €100,000 to one family. The first sad thing is that these people are not being helped. And the second sad thing is that this is just a waste of resources. With, for example, the Breakthrough method, but also with a route that I am doing together with Secretary of State Blokhuis, we are trying to make the ggz assistance and, as I would like to mention, assistance, so helping people to get back to work, much more compatible. There are also huge overlaps of ggz care and people on welfare. We're all trying to scale that up as much as we can. We are trying to contribute to this with all these pilots and initiatives. I think that there is a huge long-term gain for the Netherlands, for the people themselves and ultimately for the budgets. If you do not have to spend those budgets there, you can of course use them better for other things. That is complicated again, because in the end the problem is always that the investment comes out of one pot and out of one law and the proceeds fall down in the other pot and in the other law. But here we are looking for ways that we can break that down for once, because that should not be the discussion. Mr. Chairman. That was not all, because there is also an initiative by SP and CDA on social work companies. Thank you for that! I have also said in our written reply that I am very much prepared to respond in writing to that plan. I will try to have that reaction towards the AO Poverty and debt with you. In any case, I always appreciate this type of initiative paper, and I also share your enthusiasm for those social development companies in general. My very first visit as Secretary of State was at WVS in my own municipality. That's a company that does it very well. You can see very nice examples there. You have these kinds of companies in all shapes and sizes, you know that, of course. There's no blueprint for a social development company. It is ultimately something that lies with municipalities, but we can, of course, encourage each other to learn from each other and share the enthusiasm about the good examples. The future of these social development companies is being widely considered. Several Members are asking how we will prevent very valuable infrastructure from disappearing in the meantime. I get that question. If we look at long-term financing, there will be a crossover over a number of years from the dismantling of the sw-spots, because the influx is closed. In the current social package, we have also included an additional budget for this year, and I say, from my mind, 150 million ECU for the SW companies in order to prevent them from getting into trouble because of the corona crisis. With Cedris and others, we agreed to keep our finger on the wrist here. Every year we do the WSW thermometer anyway. I say by heart: in spring. Then we'll see what's going on. That's exactly what it's supposed to do to keep the good from falling down before something new comes up. Can I guarantee that nowhere will a sw company ever fall over? No. That is ultimately up to municipalities. If there's a mess made of something, then I can't go ahead with it either. But I understand your intention. For this year we have arranged it and we have the agreement to keep a very serious finger on the wrist here. We already did. Corona, of course, only makes that more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u245	Were you done with this part? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yeah, at least when it comes to social work companies. I have a few things to say about poverty and debt, so just say what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u247	Go ahead. Then Mr Peters gets...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u248	Then I'll go on. Mr Peters asked about the cost-sharing standard. At his request, among other things, we had Significant investigate the relationship between homelessness and the cost sharing standard. He asked me to reflect on that. I would also like to say what I'm going to do with it, because reflecting alone is fun, but that doesn't make the country any better. Look, of course, the cost-sharing standard was never designed to push people into homelessness. That's not the point. It has been designed to prevent the accumulation of benefits at one home address, for example that at one home address there are three welfare recipients living together who have much more to spend each month than the teacher's family living in the same home. I don't think I can explain that. We shouldn't want that. That undermines the support base and gives poverty trap. That's what the cost-sharing standard is for. However, the cost-sharing standard has an undesirable side effect that sometimes leads to people saying to their children, for example: get out of the house! Seriously, they often do so on the basis of wrong information, according to Significant's research. The perception of the measures is often incorrect or misinformation has been provided. For example, people think it's going to apply since the 18th year of life and you name it. We have to do something about that. Furthermore, there is a lot of room for customization around the cost sharing standard, but we see reluctance in municipalities to apply that customization. They say they find that complicated. Together with Divosa we have picked that up; I am very grateful to them for that. Can't you guys make a hand-out for customization with the cost-sharing standard? As far as I am concerned, that should lead to two things. One. For the official at the point of contact, it must be very clear: this and this I can do. Two. I don't know if it helps when I say it, but I do: they have to feel the comfort of doing this. There's a lot of customization around for a reason. Municipalities really need to feel that space. Thirdly, in response to Significant's research, I said that I would like to explore, within the objectives that we have with the cost-sharing standard and within the financial frameworks, nothing is free of charge in life, whether there are any other modalities for the implementation of the cost-sharing standard on which benefit you short, on that of the main resident or on that of the cohabitant? Those who could remove this effect? I hope to be able to inform you of this in the first quarter of the new year. I still have the issue of wage costs subsidies in this block. Both the VVD and the Christian Union asked for that. Other parties have already done so in previous debates. We've had it investigated. The wage cost subsidy means that municipalities receive their money on the basis of realised locations. This is the idea that you have a much more positive incentive to do something for that difficult group. That's a problem we all want to solve. I think that the historic financing of the wage costs subsidy is a good idea. So much for my points in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u249	First, Mr Peters, then Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u250	I am glad that I have waited for your request, Mr President, because my question is about the wage costs subsidy. When I look at the sw sector, we see people who really do the old sw. I think we can afford that. But it is precisely the parties that are helping people in the Participation Act that get €5,000 for that when I say it out of my head, and that often doesn't come true. If you do both, it should be possible. We've been on a nice job visit. There may be House-wide support for this use of resources. If you direct these funds to the municipalities that really do, will those companies no longer be in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u251	I'm just trying to figure out exactly what the question is. Labour cost subsidies are going to provide a very positive stimulus to the wider issue of people with a distance from the labour market. It is a little support for the municipalities that are already doing it and hopefully a push for municipalities that are doing even less. Is that what you're asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u252	Well, sort of. SW companies using this wage cost subsidy could be in financial difficulties because it is not convenient. Municipalities that realize, they get extra money. Would it help if they could use it that way for those sw companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u253	It must be me, but I just don't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u254	You can explain the question again, Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u255	That's too bad. I've been a teacher...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u256	I can always hear you very well. We always understand each other so well, so it's gonna be all me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u257	A third attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u258	Third try. There are sw companies that are getting into financial trouble just because they're helping people out of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u259	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u260	Okay. My question is: if we do what you just said, will that problem be resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u261	Whether all the problems are solved then, I don't know, but I think this is exactly why this is a good idea. You'll be rewarded if you do something for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u262	Three times was a charm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u263	It worked anyway. Then Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u264	Thank you to the Secretary of State for responding to our own initiative paper on social work provision for the AO on debt in December. We'll wait and see. I'd like to ask a question about it here. He said that ultimately the municipality is responsible for maintaining or not maintaining such a beautiful facility. I believe that we are at that point apart, because our approach is to ensure that it is guaranteed nationally. The Secretary of State said that at the moment when a social work facility makes a mess of it in a certain place, he cannot vouch for it. But what are we going to do about the people in that municipality where social services can be abolished, as far as the Secretary of State is concerned? We are saying that you must protect it and that you must intervene in a certain way, because we want that social work provision to continue. Let's say it's a school the board's making a mess of, and we don't say, "Don't bother with the school." Then that's what we're gonna do. Do you share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u265	I'm a little cautious about it because I'm dealing with a division of powers. Let me put it this way: I see what you mean now. You say, "What if the institute falls over, where are these people?" Can we come up with something for that? I think you mean structural solutions. I do not know if that is within my power, but if you like, I will explicitly comment on this and on what might be possible in the current situation when responding to your note. Is this how we're gonna get together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u266	I appreciate that very much. I can tell you in advance, but the Secretary of State is going to read the note very carefully.The essence of our story is that everyone is entitled to work and, if necessary, to guidance to work. I refer, for example, to SW company SOWECO in Almelo and surrounding areas that are threatened with collapse, because municipalities there all have different views. That's what's causing it to fall apart, and it's a damn shame for those people. I think the government will have a job to protect and help the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u267	I'm gonna chew on that. I want responsibilities where they're supposed to be, but I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u268	Mrs. Van Brenk, at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u269	My question is indeed about social development companies. We had asked a question about this and we were indeed given an answer. The Secretary of State says that a decision on funding will be taken in the spring. If you want to keep a company open, I understand that there's a need to clarify now. My concern is: are we not going to lose people if we do not clarify the funding until spring? What are we going to do about the companies that get in trouble in the meantime? Where can they come in so they can stand up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u270	I have just said that we have made a substantial sum available for this year to provide additional support for corona and to maintain it. Spring is a natural moment to look at extra resources, also because we have that thermometer again. But take it from me that we talk a lot to Cedris, to Job Cohen. We keep our finger on the wrist on this file all the time. This is the route we have outlined now, but I think the Chamber will not blame me if I deviate from it if there is a need to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u271	At the same time. It is also nice that the Secretary of State wishes to respond to the note that colleagues have submitted. Over the past few years, the Chamber has been calling for very broad attention to be paid to the future of social development companies. That's not because we say, like it used to be, it was good and we have to get back to it. There is a strong look at the front. We have also set up labour market regions in the Netherlands. I have suggested a number of times: would it not be an idea to have the infrastructure in order per labour market region? This does not mean that each municipality must have its own social development company, but that the labour market regions are a good vehicle to ensure that this infrastructure is created at regional level. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the aspect of the labour market regions in his response to my colleagues' notes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u272	I will. I know this plea. It's complicated with the powers, but I know what you're talking about. I will also reflect on that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u273	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u274	Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to talk about working at home. We can't repeat it often enough. Who knows how many people are sitting at home watching the debate now, but the call remains: work at home, unless really, really can't do otherwise. At the moment, working at home is very difficult for a lot of people. We all know that, including the people here. You spend five days a week just looking at a screen. I can see it with us at the Ministry, too. It's been an empty building for months. People haven't seen their colleagues in months. People have started jobs, have never been to the office and have never seen their colleagues in the flesh. Some families are small housed or have small children in the house. Then it's incredibly spicy right now. We try to do a lot of things about it, but you can't take it all away. In any case, we encourage people to work healthy and safe at home. That's what we're living up to. I was allowed to open the Week of Work Stress this week. I thought that was a good timing in the week of my first budget as Secretary of State. I have called on employers, but also workers, especially at this time, to pay very much attention to the stress that this can bring on people. But I myself think that this is also a megaexperiment somewhere, which has a very positive side to it for the long term. That's what several MPs have said. It's not about how we do it now: always, five days a week, looking at all those squares on a screen. But it would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could keep the good things and their good effects. Because, on the one hand, the stress is what I noticed myself during the period when the Chamber was partially closed and I was still a Member of Parliament and worked a lot at home, but on the other hand it is also easy from time to time. It just gives a little more space to take your kids to school once in a while, because you don't have the travel time to work, or to pick up your meds at the pharmacy. I'll just mention a few of those examples where I really think it can help. And that is still separate from what it does for example for the traffic jams in our country. It's nice to, if you have to go outside now, be able to drive a little further. What are we going to do to keep the positive things going? I have agreed with Mariëtte Hamer and with the Economic and Social Committee that we will have discussions with many parties in the coming months in order to gain their experiences and ideas so far. What are the things that work or not work? What are we looking at? I want that to end in early 2021 in a request for advice to the ESC on the future of working at home. In doing so, we will also look at whether, for example, all our laws and regulations are equipped for this purpose. I believe that is what Mrs Palland asked for, but I am not sure anymore. Of course, there are still questions to be asked about taxation as well. I am very motivated to work on this issue. That's what I'm gonna do. Hopefully, at least in a few years' time, we will be able to do something positive about this terrible period of work at home. That was the part about working at home, Mr. Chairman. I'd still have a block left. Mr Van Weyenberg referred to the issue of equal pay for men and women. He said himself: it does run towards each other, but still too slowly. There is, if I may say so, an initiative proposal from the Labour Party ready for consideration. That is what we shall be talking about. We ourselves have also done a number of things within the framework of the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination. We also expect an initiative in this area from Europe. I think that's gonna happen this year. So we often come to talk about this important issue. I agree that my daughter should earn just as much later as her male colleague. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about fraud, partly in connection with Mr Renkema, who had a nice speech on the question: do we actually see human beings? I think you see, if you look through your eye hairs at many discussions about the systems in the Netherlands right now, that's really one of the key questions. I have tried to contribute to this by sending a letter to your Chamber following the debate we had on the Participation Act. As a result of the concept of social security fraud, I really want to distinguish it from people who are subconsciously making a mistake, which we no longer regard as fraud. We are also going to prevent that from happening by making that terrible mountain of forms and so on easier. We're looking for more room for customization. A very nice side effect of that could also be that we have more energy and time left to deal with the people who are really deliberately cheating on us. Mr De Jong started that yesterday; we discussed this in the debate. Because I think it's exactly that mix: people who make a mistake have to help, and people who cheat, you have to go hard on them. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg made a glowing speech about how we deal with cancer and work. I know that from him; he has been working on this theme for a long time. Cancer is a terrible disease, but the good news is that it is less and less often a deadly disease, so it becomes a chronic disease. Then life is still very heavy, but he rightly says: work can even help the healing process. On the other hand, cancer sometimes hinders the chances of a job. I want to break these bulkheads, as I think he literally said, between work and care, and actually between those two ministries, as I heard between the lines. I've already said something about that in the AO Working safely. In the very short term, I would like to sit down with the Minister for Medical Care, who, in my opinion, knows this dossier a little bit from the past. Then we're going to see how we can come to a plan at this point as soon as possible. My only warning is the next one. Mr Van Weyenberg already set a date for this. We are doing our best, but it is two ministries that are, of course, really in the middle of the corona crisis right now. But I fully endorse the plea and I also recognise the passion with which Mr Van Weyenberg is talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u275	I'll see if you've answered all the questions in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u276	I was in the other block. Maybe I will say two more words about the childcare sector. One. Mr Van Weyenberg asked: does the cabinet agree that this is more than just a labour market instrument, more than just being able to work alone and let your child catch something? Yes, it is. That is the position of the cabinet, it is my position and it is also my position as an expert in experience. Can I also use the answer to this question to compliment this sector incredibly? They have also been in the line of fire of the corona crisis, they have set up emergency shelter for us, and at the moment they are working very hard under high pressure. For they too, similar to education, have to do with breakdown. It's where everything is put to keep it open. I think I speak for you when I say that I have great admiration and thanks for that. That's it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u277	Then there was a brief question from Mr Van Weyenberg. Then comes Mr Renkema, and then Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u278	I would like to start by joining the very warm words of the Secretary of State in the childcare sector. Too often they are not mentioned, along with other sectors, care and education in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u279	I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u280	So I like to agree with that, and I think the words are also very appreciated. I will table a motion on cancer and work in the second term. Because what I really think is a problem right now is that the funding is totally loose. For example, if Radboud wants to help people to provide occupational medical support from the start of treatment, they have to pay it out of their own pocket. I am not going to provoke a specific proposal from the Secretary of State; I will table a motion. I understand the corona crowd, too, but I really have to. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that this shot really needs to be broken, because this concern should not be missed during treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u281	I understand that direction exactly. I'm gonna have to figure it out with VWS later, but I know exactly what he means. Actually, that's the same thing I was talking about earlier. We have a lot of beautiful systems in the Netherlands. That has the disadvantage that it is sometimes difficult to bring together good ideas. You'll have discussions about funding and you name it. I will take it with me in any case in my conversation and link it back to Mr Van Weyenberg and his colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr Renkema and then Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u283	I have another point. Because it was a little fast. The Secretary of State said that Mr Renkema spoke fine words about "we still see man." He referred to the letter about fraud. At the same time, my question was what we are going to do about the Participation Act. Indeed, there is an evaluation of the Participation Act and it has still not been properly discussed here. That law contains a number of articles that can be interpreted in a variety of ways. You can say: it's all customization. However, the obligation of information, for example, is quite strict. I have said that it should be possible for parents to shop occasionally for their child who has welfare benefits. The law is harsh. Often the cabinet points to the hardness clause and that the municipality can come up with a solution. I would very much like to have the debate on whether we should not really change a number of articles in the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u284	I understand that need. I'm not gonna be able to make any legal changes in time at all. Let me say something about it. There will always have to be a balance in the responsibility we ask of the people we help. I think we can agree on that. On the other hand, we are seeing more and more new ways that may be effective in helping people. Sometimes being strict will be the way and sometimes it will help. I also think we sometimes see crazy examples passing by. I have seen this in the context of my letter of fraud. Someone's providing care to her mother. The mother's depositing the money from the train ticket. It is said that this is fraud. We're really on the wrong track. We need to look at that openly. I would like to add that you will encounter exactly the dilemma that you regulate in laws and where you offer room for customization, because these are often customization questions. We are not getting out of that today, but that debate is very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u285	I've been waiting for the block to remain, unfortunately. What I am about to ask is really about the most important thing that needs to be discussed within social security. That is the sustainability of our welfare state. More than 50% of the assistance goes to non-Western immigrants. Over the last ten years, EUR 26 billion has been spent on assistance for non-Western immigrants. Every year we spend EUR 3 billion on this. Every year. Meanwhile, we see that the age of AOW is rising, pensions may be reduced and even hospitals are being closed down. We do see the whole bunch of money going to non-Western immigrants. I asked a question yesterday and I received a written reply from the cabinet. I believe that being an immigration country and being a welfare state do not go hand in hand. The cabinet says, "No, it's okay. It's okay. Why does this Secretary of State not tackle the misery of the enormous dependence on assistance, but also the fraud within the non-Western ethnic group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u286	The sustainability of the welfare state is an interesting theme, but with the amounts you mention here, you are not going to save it. That alone is about the amount with which healthcare costs increase every year. I'm looking at the assistance color-blind. I think you should do the same. People who are legitimate and have no work are entitled to assistance. They also have to comply with the obligations and comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u287	I don't know what the Secretary of State now thinks he should suggest with color blind. I didn't mention color. So I assume the Secretary of State will take that back now. That doesn't make any sense. That's an unprecedented sacrifice I don't accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u288	I didn't put that in your mouth. I said I look color blind and I don't look at where people come from. I am responsible for a system in which people under certain criteria are entitled to benefit. That includes the duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u289	Now the Secretary of State is doing it again. I really don't accept it. He talks about color, and I just don't accept it. You just don't have to say this kind of subtlety. I'm just standing here to make sure that the moment we see social security being attacked... You should do the same. This is just the story. 3 billion euros a year goes to non-Western immigrants. That's 26 billion euros in ten years. You're gonna bring up the cost of care? The cabinet has closed down hospitals. What are you thinking? All I'm asking is why on earth a VVD Secretary of State accepts that we give EUR 3 billion a year to help non-Western immigrants and that one in five Turks is cheating on assistance. Why do you accept that? Then don't say, "Don't come up with this kind of money." Each euro too much for a group of people who should not get something, for example fraudsters, should be prevented. You won't. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u290	I'll do that. I'm tough on real fraud. I have just said a few words about this in connection with my letter of fraud. In addition, the same rights and obligations apply to all persons entering the assistance. I'm responsible for maintaining that and for getting those people back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u291	Your last question, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u292	Yes, Chairman, my final question. I had a debate with this Secretary of State the other day. We see that one in five Turks is cheating on the welfare. The Secretary of State said, "I'd like to deal with that." But then what he comes up with is that if you commit fraud with the welfare and supposedly don't have enough money to make ends meet, you can still get welfare benefits. That's what you say to a fraud. You say to a fraud: you cheated, but at the moment when you supposedly can't make ends meet, when you can just go to your family or see if you can get money around you, we still reward you with welfare benefits. If you send that kind of signal, so if you say that a welfare fraudster can simply commit fraud and then still get social security, then you do nothing to protect that social security. So again my question: why do you do that? Why are you tearing down social security by accepting this kind of thing? Why do you keep giving people money that doesn't deserve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u293	This change in the law, which Mr De Jong, too, has fortunately voted for, is precisely the right element that people with a fraud regulation automatically received assistance and could then just keep their homes. That's exactly what we were solving with that law. That's what I'm doing. Two. I'm just trying to see, where it's just about mistakes, if we can't spend less time on enforcement. With this I try to free up more enforcement capacity for people who have an entire apartment complex abroad. Mr De Jong also knows that this is not easy, because you then operate in another country. You have to deal with the rules of that country, whether you like it or not. You'll depend on that country's cooperation. But it's really not like we're saying, "Let it blow."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u295	Oh, the amendments still have to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u296	Yeah, they're coming. I'm going to see the Minister now. We'll just have to wait for the cleaning to take place. Before cleaning, Mr Stoffer has another question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u297	Yeah, about this. I have received a written answer to my question about the lack of employment in the government for people with a disability to the labour market. I got a nice answer. The bottom line is that this is being deposited by SZW in the Home Office. Reference is made to the Innerwork Pool. I went in there again this morning. It appears to be about cleaning, catering and ordering files. It's always about what coloring you have on something. My question was actually focused on the whole. May I give an example to show the coloring from my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u298	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u299	I used to work in a government branch. People came in there with a temporary contract, for example with a Wajong benefit or something. They had a good education, an academic education. For example, there was a young woman with Crohn's disease. You couldn't rely on her every day, but if she was there, she was the best there was. You hire people like that on the basis of a temporary contract. But with the government, you have a reduction drive and appointments. You can hardly do it on that fixed formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u300	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u301	My question is: is that included in what I have here? I am therefore referring not only to catering, cleaning and so on, but also to the top of the payroll building, to the talented people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u302	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u303	...that we really need to get to work with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u304	I very much agree with that, if only because I know very good examples of this in my own ministry. So that's what we're taking. You know that we have asked Aart van der Gaag to give a boost to the government too, after he has successfully done so for the private sector. I'll talk to him soon. Then I'll talk to him about this explicitly. But I very much agree with Mr Stoffer. For people with a distance from the labour market, too often only the jobs to which you referred are considered, while, for example, people with a breakdown in the autism spectrum can also do very good work for the government in the upper part of the wage building.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u305	Thank you. I see this as some kind of commitment. Can that be returned to the Chamber within a time limit to be determined by yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u306	Yes, I have to agree with BZK, because that is formally responsible for this. But I feel responsible for it, too. I have to take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u307	Okay, thank you. Then I will give the floor quickly to the Minister, because six amendments have been tabled for both the Secretary of State and the Minister. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to do them for both of us. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Gijs van Dijk, on 70 million for the SW companies. That is what the debate has just been about. We keep our finger on the wrist, also in consultation with Cedris and Mr Cohen. We donated extra money. This amendment comes too early; I therefore advise against it. Then there is the following amendment, tabled by Mr De Jong of the PVV. That amendment does not have a number for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u309	14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u310	This amendment deals with austerity and weighing. We have discussed this extensively in the first period. That letter is coming soon, so I must advise against that amendment. Mr Van Kent has given his opinion on this matter. 15 tabled an amendment on the NOW conditions. I would like to discourage that amendment, with the argument that we have deliberately opted for the exemption of wages and that we have looked very consciously at the circumstances that exist today. On the contrary, we want as many businesses as possible to be achieved with the NOW in order to maintain as much employment as possible. This restriction is precisely going to lead to less use, which I would find unwise. That is why I must advise against the amendment. Mr Van Kent has given his opinion on this matter. 18 tabled an amendment on the partner income test and the Tozo. I think this is the sixth time, by motion or amendment. You know our view on this: dissuade. Then we are in a search for the Renkema amendment. I think that has evolved from Mr Renkema alone to Mr Renkema and Mr Bruins to about your entire Chamber. I assume that the amendment to item No. 22 has become the final amendment, replacing 19 and 21. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u311	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u312	Well, even if I thought of it, there's 130 seats underneath it. So judge Room. No, it's an excellent initiative. Given the broad signature, the amendment meets a broad living wish, so Court of Justice judgment. I come to the amendment to item No. 20 by Mr Gijs van Dijk on crisis jobs. I would like to suggest to him that this amendment be retained for a moment. But this is an amendment, and then it gets complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u313	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u314	That is not possible, so I must advise against the amendment. But soon, in that same letter, we will return to the details of the corona lanes, as we call them. So I have to discourage this amendment. That's it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u315	Yeah, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-19-tweedekamer-3.u316	I shall now suspend the sitting until 2.10 p.m. Then we'll continue with the second term of office. Mrs Van Brenk, the Minister has also spoken on behalf of the Secretary of State, especially for you. Thank you.
