ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Van Raak declaring that there is reason to consider a proposal for a change in the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum (35129). I would like to welcome the initiator. That's Mr Van Raak. He is supported in box K by Nicole Temmink. She's a party employee at the SP. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation is planned as usual in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Krol as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. Mr Krol has given 45 minutes as speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three times is a charm. The first time we had a binding corrective referendum in the Netherlands was in 1999. Then the bill for the referendum fell at the very last moment in the First Chamber due to one vote, namely that of Hans Wiegel, honorary member of the VVD. This striking referendum killer effectively destroyed the referendum during the Night of Wiegel he mentioned. The second time was almost twenty years later. Finally, we had a referendum. This time, although only consultative, Minister Ollongren of D66 did not know how quickly she had to break the referendum law. This happened after only two referendums had been held. To the Ukraine Treaty, more than 61% of voters said no. That was on April 6, 2016. And after a long time, the Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, finally came to the Association Treaty via goat paths with his insert. A waxed nose, from which especially contempt for the electorate speaks. Even the planned evaluation of the consultative referendum could not be delayed. With steam and boiling water the referendum was put by the minister and the coalition in the dirt. Mind you, Minister Ollongren, who, like Minister Grapperhaus, has never been elected a representative of the people and has never been accountable to the electorate. Regentesk behavior of the top shelf. Democrats '66 is back to square one after 50 years, to speak in the terms of D66 itself: a completed life. With a fast train ride had to be withdrawn by parliament. On 20 February 2018, my motion was put to the vote to at least wait until the Remkes Committee had completed its final report on the parliamentary system. A very reasonable request. But in a roll-call vote, my motion didn't make it. 71 members voted in favour, 74 against. Among the opponents was then surprisingly also the Forum comrade, Wybren van Haga. Thanks to Mr Van Raak, we now have a third chance to introduce a binding corrective referendum. The committee of former CDA Prime Minister Biesheuvel recommended a binding corrective referendum as early as 1985. That was the forerunner of the Remkes Committee, which came to the same recommendation 30 years later in the Low Thresholds report. In the Netherlands, a lot of things happen 50 years later. Better late than never, let's just say. Three times is a charm. We believe in direct democracy. We feel it in all our fibers. The binding referendum is going to make politics more credible for all those people who no longer believe in it, who have been disappointed over and over again in what is happening here in the Chamber and how incomprehensible it is being voted. With a hard word, it's called the "Ostrogorski paradox." The people who make the political decisions here often come up with positions that differ from what most voters want. I refer to issues such as immigration, the 1,800 billion EU support fund and, of course, the corona emergency law of this cabinet, which I receive at least 1,000 emails about every day. Dare to hold a referendum on that! Mr. Chairman. 70% of Dutch voters are in favour of a binding referendum, according to recent figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. That is why we were not allowed to hold a referendum on the abolition of the consultative referendum. There was too great a chance that the withdrawal would not go through. It does show an in-depth understanding of one's own administrative skills, namely the understanding that decisions are being made that cannot count on a majority. The voters are gonna eat themselves up. They're spouting their discomfort more and more powerfully on social media. That is not a symptom of the slipping of the social debate. It is an expression of anger, because people do not feel heard and because as a voter you cannot exercise influence anywhere within our parliamentary system. The only outlet is a powerless online scream, so your comments will not be visible or your account will even be lifted. Only because you have a different opinion. A legal valve is needed to regulate this pent-up anger, so that people can democratically blow off their steam. The gap between citizens and government is widening. Politicians don't keep promises. If they were elected, the electorate would disappear quickly, but the government is there for the citizen and not the other way around. The voter can pull a democratic emergency brake. It promotes social debate and, above all, it has a preventive effect. If politicians make it too much, they know they can be whistled back. In a democracy, the will of the majority is decisive, taking into account the position of minorities. But the people are sovereign. The people must be able to have the last word, and this can be done through a referendum. We see this proposal as a turning point. We have been calling for a binding referendum for years. The benefits are obvious. If the Dutch electorate is listened to, it will certainly be there. A democratic government should therefore be a strong supporter of referendums. Are we still doing what we have to do? Are we still doing what the majority want? Democracy is not finished with once every four years voting for a party. Why? Because a referendum provides a basis for policy and for a lively public debate. It provides good information on a theme, on important social issues with major consequences for our daily lives. The public debate is becoming more businesslike under the influence of referenda. A referendum is about a defined case. It becomes clear to the voter and buttons can be cut through. In a referendum, politicians cannot afford to leave large groups of citizens on the right. In a referendum, each issue must find its own majority, a majority that is formed over and over again. One time you're with the winners and the other time you're with the losers. That is a relief compared to a purely representative system, in which the ruling majority can get anything it wants. The opposition is usually there for bacon and beans. And who are served by this conservative system? These are the upshot party tigers, who put party interests above the interests of the electorate. And all that hunting for their next administrative party job. The counter forces are therefore strong, well organized and the interests are great. It's a battle over who's in charge in the Netherlands. A small club negotiators who put together a government agreement, a small club ministers who close uncontrollable billion-dollar deals in the EU. The Dutch voter is the loser time and time again. The fight to silence the electorate is almost won by the party tigers. We are opposed to this with everything we have in us. In 2018 it was suddenly D66 that with a crooked plea took the consultative referendum away from us. Of course, they were pressured by the VVD during the coalition talks. D66, that the referendum had been so celebrated in his election program. A month after the election, it went into the trash can. You will have just voted for D66 because of their position on the referendum; then you will have stayed in the monkey. The withdrawal of the consultative referendum was the pinnacle of regentesque administrative pride, from 'we do not do what we have promised' to 'we know better than the underestimated voters'. D66 wanted a better referendum and threw away his old shoes before it had new ones. It's the crookedest thing we've ever seen. Negotiations will take place during the coalition talks. That makes sense: you can't have everything you want. It's giving and taking. That is fine in itself, but there is one very big "but." This system of giving and taking during secret and non-transparent coalition discussions has a major disadvantage. Theoretically, it is possible to forge the coalition agreement with merely minority views. The CDA and the Christian Union want to ban abortion, the CDA wants the Wilhelmus, D66 wants a complete life, and the VVD just wants to abolish the dividend tax. Therefore, this emergency brake in a form of a binding referendum is, if necessary, necessary. The VVD certainly does not like direct democracy. Not from a referendum and certainly not from a binding referendum. They have been resisting it for as long as I can remember. In the disenchanting Night of Wiegel, which I mentioned earlier, after almost sixteen hours of debate, the correct referendum, crown jewel of D66, was voted away by one man: Hans Wiegel. The election programme of the VVD states that the referendum has no added value; it simplifies difficult issues. It is clear who is speaking here. Those are the party tigers, the people who think they know better than the voter, the drivers from the back room. When it comes to the referendum, you shouldn't be at the VVD. Even if they were to vote in favour of the amendment of the Constitution, make no mistake: a change of constitution will have to pass Parliament once again, after a new House of Representatives has been elected. And at such a second reading, two thirds of Parliament must vote in favour of the constitutional change. Only then will the Constitution be amended. Only then can a law be written laying down the rules for a binding referendum. This law must also be given a majority in the Second and First Chambers. So don't be fooled. If this proposal gets a majority, there will be plenty of opportunities in the next cabinet period to wipe the referendum off the table again. What a blow it must have been for the VVD: the state committee chaired by VVD-prominent Remkes concluded that a binding referendum increases the involvement of citizens. The VVD had put its hopes on this state committee in the election programme. Then the VVD'er Remkes comes up with their biggest nightmare: not just a referendum, no, a binding referendum. This minister didn't like Remkes' advice. In her view, a binding referendum does not fit in with representative democracy, whereas the State Commission had explained so well that it is an excellent addition and that direct democracy is needed to make representative democracy credible. The committee calls the binding referendum an emergency brake to stop the runaway train. This is how the electorate can justify politicians. In our view, the committee has the greatest right in the world. The Minister was afraid to reject the proposal. She didn't take a stand on it at all. She did have an alternative: a democracy festival. Well, I noticed with my own eyes that last August hardly a voter came to that beautiful summer festival. Officials were dragged there with buses full of obligation. It wasn't a democracy festival. It was rather a dictatorship festival of the Minister of BZK as an employer. That's how this coalition is thought. D66 comes with a cloth for the bleeding. The VVD prefers emergency brakes that do not work and can never be controlled, such as the emergency brake at the EU Corona Support Fund. If you pull the emergency brake in The Hague, the train still goes down to Brussels. This constitutional change will be a heavy emergency brake, one that really works, to which Parliament and the cabinet have to listen because it is binding. That is why we fully support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are all representatives of the people here. We are supposed to represent the people in the country, the voters. It is ultimately up to the voters to decide whether we are doing this right or wrong. They can do this once in a while, not more than once every four years, in elections, as in the forthcoming elections on 17 March. But why wouldn't they be able to do that in between? That is actually the fundamental question. If we adopt laws here that people, the voters, the Dutch, really do not agree with, the people should be able to correct us. That can be done very well with a binding referendum. Sometimes it's a long shot to get something done here. In my group we know all too well: if Ronald van Raak has something in his head, it is very difficult to get it out again. Sometimes that's a positive trait. For example, he's back in trade-k tonight to defend a bill for a binding referendum. You'd almost say, "Find a hobby." But how different than last time is it now? The debate on the referendum is socially and politically opposed. The arguments against this law are becoming less and less sustainable and more and more parties are starting to think differently about the principle of referenda. So it could be an historic time in this respect. Much will be looked back on the history of this law tonight; so will I. That history goes back to the opinions of the 1985 Biesheuvel State Commission. That was 35 years ago. I was six at the time. So I have not been involved to such an extent as might perhaps have been wise in retrospect. Nothing is done with Biesheuvel. A proposal from the Kok cabinet stranded in the Senate in 1999 at the very last moment; another missed opportunity. A second proposal did not reach it in 2004 due to a lack of support from the Balkenende cabinet. But it doesn't stop there. On the initiative of GroenLinks, Partij van de Arbeid and D66 an initiative bill was made for a binding corrective referendum, which was adopted in 2013 and 2014 by the Second and Upper Chambers. Afterwards, these parties refused to re serve the law, which was constitutionally highly dubious, but fortunately, Mr Van Raak was willing to defend that law in 2017. In those circumstances, however, it was impossible to obtain aid in the Chamber for this, but three years later things changed. The most important thing is that at the end of 2018 the State Committee presented its final report Low thresholds, high dikes, in which an analysis was made of the state of democracy, the gap between the administration and the citizens, and also of the growing group of people who seem to lose faith in politics. I refer to colleagues when it comes to trusting only the e-mail bombing that we have received in recent weeks. In fact, the state committee presented the binding corrective referendum as a means of restoring confidence in politics. If you read it, it looks like the petitioner chose the proposal of the State Committee in a bill. Does that mean that the complainant fully agrees with the analysis of the State Commission? Why did he actually choose not to just make a whole bill of his own? Is that pure complacency or is it also a matter of substance? Why did he choose to include this proposal in the report of the State Committee? And why did he decide to file it now? I understand from the reply that the applicant is very satisfied with the opinion of the Council of State on the legislative proposal. I can imagine, also because for a long time opponents of the binding referendum thought that a form of direct democracy would actually conflict with representative democracy. Some people still cling to the somewhat old-fashioned view that direct democracy clashes with the idea of representative democracy in parliament. The Council of State refutes that. It says: no, the referendum is a good addition to the parliamentary system. How is it that these ideas about the referendum have changed so much in recent years? Does the petitioner have an explanation for that? Not only in the State Commission and the Council of State, you can see that the debate on the binding referendum is shifting; that is also the case outside The Hague. Where the referendum has been seen for a long time as a good tool for the more educated, mature citizen to gain more influence, you can see that the enthusiasm for the referendum is now much wider among the groups with perhaps a little lower education and a little less confidence in politics. There's a little more enthusiasm about the referendum. Those are also the people we are losing when it comes to trust in politics. How does the petitioner see that? Why is the correct-binding referendum also a strengthening of representative democracy? Is this really a means of restoring confidence in politics? And is it enough? Are we there with this or is there another laundry list we have to finish? And what other means are there to strengthen our democracy? I would also point out that the petitioner has been in this Chamber for some time and has been walking across the street for some time before that. What changes has he himself seen in the functioning of parliamentary democracy? In order to allow a binding referendum, the Constitution needs to be amended. That is what this law is about, no more and no less. As is the case, if it is adopted, the law will have to be re-examined after the elections. The petitioner practically proposes to make it an implementing law. It should set out the conditions, such as a threshold for the number of signatures, when the result is valid, etc. I understand the choice not to set such thresholds in the Constitution itself. A: the Constitution does not become more readable. B: When it comes to elections, we have the general principle that there are Lower Parliamentary elections no later than every four years, for example, laid down in the Constitution, while the effect, for example, is that in every constituency where you run, you have to hand in a minimum number of signatures, is laid down in the Election Act. That also means that you can change it from time to time. It is also very impractical to lay down very precise rules for a referendum in the Constitution. Suppose you want to raise or lower that threshold, for example because technology makes it easier to get signatures, you would need a constitutional change. That's not convenient. The applicant also refers to examples of thresholds mentioned by the State Commission. Does this mean that this is the opinion of the author? Is he saying we should start with the state committee? If we want to make this referendum a success, we need broad support in the Lower House and the Upper House to get it into the Constitution at all. This also means that we will have to compromise on such a kind of fundamental issues as what threshold you want. How does the petitioner view that process? How are we going to ensure that we agree on the need for a referendum? How are we going to agree on how to implement that? With this bill, we're not just dealing with... I see there's a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u6	Since these are very legitimate questions from the SP spokesperson, I ask the questions to him as well. Especially when it comes to the thresholds, and not so much the signatures to the introductory and final request, but in particular the threshold of outcome, the legislative proposal, as we are discussing, says that they should be in implementing legislation, by two-thirds majority. I can follow that reasoning very well. At the same time, during the previous treatment, to which this spokesperson referred, there were also political groups that said: as far as we are concerned, it belongs in the Constitution; if it does not, we will vote against it. They also voted against it. If we are looking for that broad consensus, it has already been said that a two-thirds majority is needed at second reading. Is it possible for the SP to discuss setting that threshold in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u7	To begin with, there is a great deal to the SP to get this bill passed. If we enter into this discussion, we as a group will be the starting point for the opinion of the State Committee and the limits that it contains. We do not think it makes sense to include it in the Constitution. I am also not sure that that is the best route to adopt, but if that is the price we have to pay, at least we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u8	I'm happy with this opening. Let us listen to the input today and then see what will be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u9	Carry on, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u10	I'm extremely nuanced tonight. You can see how much we want this to be adopted. This bill not only provides for a binding corrective referendum at national level, but also at provincial and local level. But in different municipalities and provinces there are already opportunities to hold a referendum. How does this proposal relate to all these local and regional possibilities for referenda? How does this proposal fit with ordinary initiatives, including in society, to involve people in governance? Is this really a strengthening of local democracy, or is this not a good thing in practice? Mr. Chairman. We're all people's representatives. That's what I started with. We represent people in the country. The core of our democracy is that power can be controlled and corrected if necessary. If you look at Dutch history, it's built on power versus counterpower. We have a cabinet, which is controlled and if necessary corrected by the Chamber. The electorate should also be able to control and correct us, if necessary. With a binding referendum, we are giving people the opportunity to whistle back at the moment when they think that we are not doing our job here. Creating counterpower requires courage, but democracy does not thrive on fear. Democracy is built on trust. With this binding referendum, we give people who have chosen us the opportunity to correct ourselves. We ask not only citizens, voters, people to trust us, but also: correct us. At least if we don't do it right. This referendum fits very well in Dutch democracy and traditions and complements Parliament's work. Mr. Chairman. It's been long enough. It's time to say yes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Mrs Özütok has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The recess has only just ended a day and we are talking to the fourth initiator again today. If this goes on like this, I think we're all gonna have our turn soon. But all madness on a stick, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Raak and his supporters warmly on his initiative law. It's not just an initiative law. It is a constitutional change, and also a subject that has been on both parliament and society for a long time: the referendum. Mr. Chairman. Not so many years ago, we discussed a similar proposal to amend the Constitution. That proposal didn't work out at the time. There hasn't been a stop ever since. At the initiative of the First Chamber, a state committee took a close look at the entire parliamentary system. This state committee has done extensive research and made many proposals in a large report of more than 300 pages. One of these proposals concerned the binding corrective referendum. That is one of the variants of the referendum. The State Committee concluded in its final report that the parliamentary system in the Netherlands is functioning well in itself, but that it could be strengthened in a number of respects. The proposed referendum sees the State Commission as a good addition to strengthen the parliamentary system. With the introduction of the possibility to submit laws accepted by Parliament to the public in a referendum, the State Commission and also the initiator ensure better representation of the population in terms of content. For, it is said, decisions are now sometimes taken that have been negotiated as a compromise in a coalition, but have not been included in any electoral programme. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is a strong supporter of the best possible involvement of citizens in decision-making, of civic participation. Democracy belongs to all of us, and we must all be able to participate in it as much as possible. It is important that we continue to look at how we can continue to improve our democratic rule of law. And when we look at the referendum, my group is pleased that of the various types of referendum that exist, the State Committee has advised the binding corrective referendum and the initiator has also chosen it. This variant gives citizens a kind of emergency brake that they can use on their own initiative and which then also has a binding outcome and thus provides clarity. This avoids any confusion in advance as to what should happen to the outcome. Nor is this referendum used by politicians to achieve a desired outcome, as could be the case in a consultative referendum. It is precisely in our current representative system that it is understandable that we limit the referendum to legislative proposals that have been accepted by Parliament. As the Biesheuvel State Commission, which, like the Remkes State Commission, was in favour of a corrective referendum in the 1980s, stated: "In the Dutch parliamentary system, the starting point should be that the parliament should not be passed." Having said that, a well-functioning referendum, and for the record, I do not mean to say anything about the outcome, but about the process, which is to the benefit of clear conditions and guarantees that are clear to everyone in advance. This means that there are not too high thresholds to request a referendum, but that it is also not the case that a small group of people can all too easily request a referendum. In its report, the State Committee makes clear suggestions for the entry requirements: 5,000 signatures in the introductory phase and 400,000 signatures for the final request. These suggestions seem very reasonable to the Green Left Group. However, the initiator is not yet making any concrete proposals in this area. However, we would like to hear from him how he looks at these entry requirements. The State Committee also makes suggestions for the outcome threshold. It proposes that, in addition to the logical rule that there should be more no-voters than yes-voters, it should also state that, in order to validate the referendum, the number of no-voters should be at least one third of the number of votes cast in the last Lower House elections. This suggestion, too, seems to my group to be a good one. And you can already guess: we would also like to hear a further response from the initiator. How does he look at this suggestion? And can he also comment on experiences in other countries and in my previous question? Mr. Chairman. Both in the report of the State Committee and in today's proposal for an initiative, a so-called negative list of subjects on which no referendum can be requested has been drawn up. For example, we are talking about taxation or, as you can imagine, legislation on budgets. In general, GroenLinks agrees with this list. After all, it would not make sense to organise referendums on budget laws, for example. At one point, a rather fundamental point, we still have questions for the initiator. This concerns the issue of referenda on international conventions. The initiator is of the opinion that some of the international conventions should be referendable and that some should not be referendable. Can he explain again why he's making this distinction? My group believes that, by their nature, international conventions are usually different from national laws. So the question is to what extent international treaties, which are not currently excluded, lend themselves well to a referendum question. The conclusion of a treaty is often a long-term negotiation process. For a treaty to be drawn up, there is often a need for joint agreement between several contracting parties. That's usually a compromise. How do we prevent, I ask the initiator, that this could damage the international position of the Netherlands and that negotiations on a subsequent treaty could weaken the position of the Netherlands? I should like to hear a detailed account of this point. I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this as an advisor to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Another point that GroenLinks has questions about is the fact that the initiator also wants to make municipal and provincial referenda possible with this proposal. If we are to have a thorough debate on the instrument of the referendum, it makes sense to arrange it directly for the local and regional level. However, I was somewhat surprised that the water boards were not taken away. The initiator states that the need does not appear to be there. What does that prove, so I ask him. If the need is not with the waterboards themselves, which I could imagine, does he agree with GroenLinks that the question is not whether there is a need for the waterboards themselves but that it is important that the citizens need them and that they have those tools? Especially now that environmental policy is becoming more decentralised and waterboards are becoming increasingly involved in spatial policy and the distinction between functional and general democracy is becoming increasingly blurred, it seems to my group only logical that citizens should also be able to request a referendum on a waterboard decision. If that need is barely there, then there is no man overboard, I would say. Here too, we have tabled an amendment. I'm curious about the reaction of the initiator. Mr. Chairman. Another question of a future nature. Today we are discussing the recital law to include the binding corrective referendum in the Constitution. With the constitutional anchor, we're not there yet. A referendum law must also be introduced by ordinary law. How does the initiator see this process? Does he intend to take the initiative for this referendum law if his proposal is accepted by both chambers at first reading? And what principles does he take into account? Or does he leave that to the government? Please give me a more detailed explanation. Finally, Mr President. A referendum can be a good addition to our parliamentary system, as the state committee and the initiator put it. However, a corrective referendum does not alter the fact that we must also continue to work on the involvement of citizens in the preliminary stage of the drafting of a law. Citizens must be given more opportunities to do so. Previously, a motion by GroenLinks, the Lintmeijer motion, was adopted in the First Chamber in which the Minister was asked to work on this. I would like to receive an update from the Minister: what is the situation, what has happened so far and what is she going to do in this area? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the response of the initiator and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV. Mr Bosma also has 45 minutes' speaking time, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u14	But you will see that time flies, Madam President. Let me begin by bowing to the author, Mr Van Raak. It's great that he's doing this. His proposal could improve our democracy a bit. It is wonderful that he has literally put the referendum back on the agenda, so a bow. It is then showing off other people's feathers, because the law was actually there and he has adopted it, and the explanatory statement is almost copy-paste from the report of the Remkes Committee of State, Mr Van Raak agrees with that, but there is nothing wrong with that. When we discussed the abolition of the consultative referendum, I copied the text that Alexander Pechtold said at the time. So I note that this is a file of plagiarism, but it is for the good of it and then it is allowed. We are only doing the first time this evening, only the Chamber is speaking, but if I am a little hopeful, this proposal could reach a majority. Then we have elections and a second reading, in which it has to reach a two-thirds majority. Who knows what kind of room we'll have in March. If everyone votes PVV, we'll get there. But it actually looks kind of positive, so we're gonna keep our fingers crossed for this proposal and its author. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the referendum, but with that we are talking about whether parliamentary democracy deserves improvement, for example in this way. And then we wonder: is the Netherlands actually a democracy and where is the power? Who's in charge here, and who's gonna decide what happens to our lives? Well, it's pretty simple. The power lies with the elite, plural, the elite of the Netherlands. The elite are the top of the institutions: media, universities, high civil service and the Public Prosecutor's Office. But they are also smaller entities such as the art world, the museum world and so on. What do we know about the political preferences of these elites, who thus distribute power? Well, they're all as left-handed as hell. Or, rather, left-wing liberale. There we see a horrific over-representation of D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Stacks of research prove that. In the 1970s the people with the hippie ideals of May 1968 took over everywhere, and those people or... Their ideas are still there. De Volkskrant became a left-wing newspaper from a Catholic newspaper and the VPRO became a left-wing broadcaster from a Protestant broadcaster. The Labour Party, a bourgeois-social-democratic party, was taken over by New Left, which had as its main demand the recognition of the GDR. Everywhere we saw these kinds of takeovers. At my own faculty of political science, Professor Daudt was dropped off by marxist radikalinskis and put in some sort of broom closet. In the Netherlands, what the elite want is happening. And these are left-liberal ideas that emerge from May 1968: globalism, open borders, anti-nationalism and anti-colonialism. They are oikophobic and therefore dislike one's own, and they dislike the free market and often also Christianity, a predilection for drugs and tolerance towards crime. What else do we know about these elites? Well, they're supposed to be highly educated. And that is intertwined with their left-wing liberal ideas, because universities are hotspots of political correctness. If you are highly educated, then you were exposed to the indoctrination with the ideas of May 1968. We've known this sort of thing for years. I wrote a beautiful book about it myself, but there's now empirical research. Politicologists Wouter Schakel and Daphne van der Pas looked at almost 300 possible policy changes over the past 30 years and explained the results in addition to the preferences of highly educated people. And what does it turn out to be? Exactly what those highly educated people want happens. Apparently, their will is law. Sometimes the low-educated get their way, but that's usually when they agree with the highly educated. That's a very shocking outcome. According to the Constitution, we are all equal, but in practice there is a small group that almost always gets what it wants. It's the people who went to college. I quote these researchers. "This conclusion has major consequences. If training groups were equally represented in the Netherlands, our country would look very different. To give a few examples, social services would be expanded, the differences between rich and poor would be smaller, immigration would be more limited, crime would be punished more severely and European integration would be reduced." Okay, so left-wing liberal madness in the area of mass immigration, climate and the European state of salvation can only happen if non-university-educated Holland is kept out of play, is kept out of democracy, simply because those institutions are the domain of those left-liberal and academic elites. They take good care of themselves and the people have checked. If you understand that, you understand why all these strange things happen in the Netherlands, things that the people don't want at all, from development aid to windmills, biomass plants and gender-neutral toilets. How does that work? A good practice example is our hardworking child friend Black Piet. Which shoe didn't he fill? And which chimney didn't he climb? He was never a problem. No one had any objection to him. But then suddenly it became a left-wing fashion to hate him. And then you'll see right away that it hits the elite. Why? Because it connects with their May 1968 ideals, such as anti-colonialism, aversion to the West and admiration of everything that is not Western. Then all the elites do their thing. Minister Asscher secretly organizes a meeting in which social groups are persuaded to throw Black Piet in front of the bus. A judge makes a ruling against Black Pete. The NPO talks almost exclusively with Black Piet haters. The police are gonna ban taking a picture with Black Pete. After that, the mayors put a dime in the bag and Sinterklaa committees put it on the throat. It's a reckoning in the politically correct circuit. Meanwhile, hypocritical politicians are publicly claiming: no, we leave it to society. But sneaky and sneaky they stab Black Pete in the back everywhere. Last year, oddly enough, Black Pete became more popular again. But that's totally irrelevant. What's relevant is what the elite think. Well, they hate Black Piet and so they have to kill him. And so it happens. Of course, the Sacrifice is not a problem. Why not? See May 1968. Mr. Chairman. We know you as a big football fan. A democracy is a bit like a pronunciation from the soccer player Garry Lineker. In 1990 he desperately cried out at the world football championship: "Football is a simple game. 22 people run 90 minutes after a ball and at the end the Germans win." I would say democracy is something for 17 million people, but at the end the left-liberal elites win. Of course, the plebs can pay for the damage: development aid, biomass plants, Brussels and the electric cars of the political caste. The major policy changes in our post-war society have one thing in common: they have never been in an election programme. What party has ever advocated in an election programme to open the borders? None, and yet it happens. Professor Daudt, whom I mentioned earlier, said in 2002: "The only thing you can say for sure about an election programme is that it will not be implemented." This summer is the support package for southern Europe: 1 800 billion. We are now suddenly responsible for the spending pattern of Italy and Spain. Publicist Ewald Engelen rightly writes: "And so we are moving towards a federal Europe, without being presented to the voters; an undemocratic result achieved undemocratically." Indeed, we have seen for 30 years that power moves from the Netherlands to Brussels. Who has ever chosen Verhofstadt and Von der Leyen? Nobody! In the Netherlands democracy, we are not allowed to choose our mayors ourselves. In the Netherlands democracy, we cannot elect our King's Commissioners ourselves. In the Netherlands democracy, we cannot elect our own judges. In the Netherlands democracy, we cannot choose the Senate ourselves. In democracy The Netherlands, the States-General has a special hangout for lobbyists. It's called "First Room." 75 senators have 319 side jobs together. The Labour Party, the CDA and the VVD for the younger viewers for a moment: those used to be the three major parties of the Netherlands... still barely get 40% of the votes, but they still have 90% of the mayors in their hands. Which party rules doesn't matter that much anymore. The Labour Party has only eight real seats in the Chamber, but her bobos are being parachuted everywhere: Peter den Oudsten and Ton Heerts are mayors, Frans Timmermans is in Brussels with party mate Diederik Samsom as right-hand man, Wouter Bos is at the State Investment Fund and Jeroen Dijsselbloem is at the Security Research Council, Dick Benschop is boss of Schiphol, Mariëtte Hamer runs the SER and Martijn van Dam is the number two of the state broadcasting. The fewer people PvdA vote, the more our lives are ruined by all kinds of PvdA types. It's called "democracy." Professor Daudt said in 2002 that there are no representatives of the people in parliament, but appointed people who see the Chamber as a stepping stone to a job in the public administration. In my own words: not the place to control the government but to like the résumé. I've been the Home Affairs spokesperson for ten years now, and I've seen so many Home Affairs spokesmen come along at that time that I've lost count. They're coming, they're going and they're gonna be mayor. A outgoing CDA member once told me how that works. He was an alderman and he was dying to be mayor. There's nothing wrong with it. That's why he went to the Queen's Superintendent at the time, and he said: become active nationally, in the Lower House, then you have a great chance to become mayor. After having completed his work experience project in the Lower House for a few years, he was able to receive the chain of office. The Second Chamber as a transit house, as a pigeon house, that is not good for us. Well, chairman, if you're in the House of Representatives in preparation for your next job, are you very inclined to put the government on fire in principle, or do you think: I have to restrain myself a little, otherwise my next position will be in danger? But we have political parties, could you say, representing ideologies? Well, no, they've all become copies of each other. Journalist Syp Wynia quite rightly speaks of "complosion." They all ran to the middle. Marrakesh, European aid packages, money for Greece, climate agreement, they're all for it. The parties, from the VVD to GroenLinks, can no longer be distinguished with the naked eye. In America, they would all fit within the left wing of the Democratic Party. The chairman of the VVD sees that party as a party for people who are positive in life. Party congresses have been replaced by festivals there. A former CDA member says she's not Christian, but believes something's wrong. In the European elections, GroenLinks and the PvdA had to fill out sixty positions for the StemWijzer and they reached the same 60 times! Mark Rutte wanted a merger of the VVD and D66. There was a movement to achieve a merger between GroenLinks and D66. It's all the differences between Pepsi Cola and Coca-Cola. The Netherlands is a one-party state, as Professor Oerlemans wrote in 1990. I quote: 'Because of ideological blurring, there is in fact only one all-dominant party. The parties regularly perform a play and occasionally argue on more or less minor issues." Oerlemans explains that only a few percent of the Dutch are members of a political party. Of these, only a small part is active. He states that about 0.4% of voters determine the staffing of the government. Mind you, that was 30 years ago, I think it's even worse now. Oerlemans argues that the right to vote hardly has a corrective function anymore and that the concept of "democracy" hardly applies. He speaks of a career oligarchie; a very limited number of ambitious people make up the service. The civilian won't talk. We are a democracy without demos. Well, that's Professor Peter Lemaire's verdict. We also see how MPs are the playball of the members parties. Members' parties are contrary to the Constitution, which prescribes us: without burden. It used to say "no back-spoke" as well. In the debate on the abolition of the corrective referendum, the representatives of D66, PvdA and GroenLinks had nothing to say but: yes, it is a decision of my party. That's as far as their motivation went. In the meantime, if parliamentary democracy is going so well and there is no need for improvement, why are the members of the coalition parties trying to run the 100 meters below 10 seconds if we have to vote? Voices are the core activity of a parliamentarians, aren't they? And then the House of Representatives has also been led by all those agreements that are concluded by everyone but not by the citizen. Corporate politics: energy agreement, social agreement, housing agreement. The most tragic thing is the climate agreement. Ronald Plasterk, the minister's predecessor, wrote on Friday in De Telegraaf that the agreement costs 500 to 700 million euros; that is €50,000 to €70,000 per household. I quote Mr Plasterk: 'Never asked a voter for an opinion on this insanely large intervention, first mistake. It has come about because a number of lobby clubs met, the fossil industry, Shell and BP ahead, in itself strikingly, and then their archenemy Greenpeace, supplemented by Minister Wiebes', end quote. And how did this climate agreement come about? We don't know. The minutes have been wiped out. It says 'the president will open the meeting at 5.15 p.m.' and then everything will be black. We can't even know which people are at the table. It just said, "President: Kees Vendrik." After that, everything's black. The world's betterers don't need prankers. Everyone was allowed to join those climate tables, provided he is a member of the climate sect. For example, climate guru Ed Nijpels says: "Critics of windmills have nothing to do with these climate tables." In other words, the Netherlands is a lobbyist country. For example, Doekle Terpstra, a lobbyist on behalf of the installation companies, sits at the table. The result of these climate tables is: the Netherlands must build the heat pump, by the same plant companies. This lobbyist can so finely name and build to send a fine invoice from his client. He's successful. He then becomes chairman of the National Coordination Team Ventilation at Schools. Now he can also bill with Minister Slob. De Telegraaf writes: "Luckily Chef Ventilation, cap off, completely uninhibited and without other interests. Because as an installation foreman, cap on, he knew in a press release on 12 August that one in four schools has a ventilation problem." Netherlands lobby country. Another play. The State is throwing subsidies. Organizations are being manipulated that would otherwise disappear. They are always organisations that support left-wing liberal ideas. Environmental defense is paid for two thirds by the government. At the COC, that's 98%. Environmental defense is also at such a climate table. The government then negotiates with itself. Dark clubs like the Transnational Institute and SOMO, fighting our business, are tied to the subsidy. Kick Out Black Piet gets money from the government. The memberless Urgenda is financed entirely by the Postal Code lottery. A judge pays attention, a judge then agrees with that club. Greenhouse emissions need to be reduced. Dikastocracy. Yesterday, a judge decided that people from Gaza are entitled to asylum in the Netherlands. Citizen's checked again. Politics doesn't even matter anymore. And what do these judges vote? Well, there's a screaming overrepresentation of D66 and GroenLinks. Mr. Soros also puts a dime in the bag. For example, he finances the New Urban Collective, a club that acts against Black Piet, like Soros always finances anti-Western and Marxist actions. In 2014, the rise of the PVV gave him great concern. So he went to use his millions to influence Dutch politics. This after a meeting with Princess Mabel, who does chores for Soros. Soros financed videos against our police, who are accused of ethnic profiling. He also pays for actions for an even more liberal drug policy. Finally, drugs are important within the May 1968 thinking. That the Rijksmuseum no longer uses words like "hottentot" and "eskimo," we owe it to the Sorosmillions. More stage. The far-fetched separation of powers. When it comes to destroying the leader of the opposition, the Public Prosecutor is happy to cooperate with the Minister of Justice. In substance, there will be coordination. I'm talking about the Wilders Processes. Ministers are whispering to the state's attorney's office. Officials are contributing to the press release of that same Public Prosecutor's Office. Police officers collect signatures against Geert Wilders, against the opposition leader who says something about Moroccans shared by 45% of the population. So much for the trias politician, the foundation of our rule of law. The trials against Geert Wilders are the biggest post-war scandal in our violated and crippled democracy. It proves how ruthless and ruthless the elite can be. No one should dare to contradict the diversity cult. Friday pronunciation. It's bizarre, too. Here in The Hague, in this city, Richard de Mos is deputy mayor and the coalition parties are very satisfied with that. Then suddenly a raid by the National CID, which falls under the Public Prosecutor's Office, follows. Officials at City Hall, who are ticking neatly, are pulling the computer from under their hands. Then the prosecutor's office will follow harsh accusations: corruption, participation in a criminal organization. It can't be on. That's a big deal. The coalition will drop the party of the Mos. Then we don't hear about it at all. That's totally bizarre, isn't it? The Public Prosecutor's Office therefore causes a change in the municipal administration of The Hague. It's kind of like a coup d'état, actually. How is that possible, in a democracy? A judge at the VPRO says that being a PVVer is a counter-indication to become a judge; that is, a professional ban. The mayor of Arnhem, PvdA'er Marcouch, who is himself a supporter of Yusuf al-Qaradawi, does not want PVV'ers to join the police. Those who want to know how tolerant the Netherlands is should apply with the letters "PVV" on their résumé; they can usually save themselves the stamp. PVVs continue to face physical violence, its threat, or violence against their homes or cars. I often talk to young people who want to work for the preservation of the Netherlands and become active for the PVV. I'll tell them what that can mean for their careers: not much good, not much soup. As I tell you, a feeling of intense grief amazes me. Getting active in this democracy can be bad for you if you choose the wrong party, like the PVV. The jobs are for the fellow runners who provide each other with grants and jobs. The windows, professional bans and other exclusion mechanisms are there for PVV's, and later for Forum members as well. Another play like that. In the United States, a member of the Supreme Court is only appointed after a long, long hearing by the elected parliament, Congress. Then everything about such a candidate is brought in; publications, youth sins, student life, everything. In the Netherlands things are different. There's a vacancy for top man of the Council of State. D66 Minister Ollongren then discusses this with her highest official. That's a D66'er. Together they come to the conclusion: the best candidate is a D66'er, Thom de Graaf. Has the good man ever published anything scientific in the field of law? Is he a professor? No, he's D66'er. Another play like that. The NPO is run by a D66 lady. The highest official media in the ministry is a D66 ma'am. She wants to make a career through D66, she says in the newspaper. Fortunately, there is still independent supervision by the Media Commissioner. Well, that was led until recently by a D66 lady who drinks beers with Ollongren in London. Then she went to work for EUvsDisinfo, a club that has to hunt for Ollongren for fake news. The D66 lady in charge of the NPO comes across the floor at Mrs. Ollongren's house. The NPO is once again a recipient of programmes by Mrs Ollongren's wife, such as the "This is M" programme. And who's the guest in this is M? Mrs. Ollongren. You understand, it became a very critical interview. We knew Madam Secretary doesn't have much to do with democracy. When she was alderman, even more so, deputy mayor in Amsterdam, she stated in an important speech at the municipality's New Year reception that if the PVV wins the elections, the election results should not be recognised. There! Then there had to be a Republic of Amsterdam. I wasn't surprised she didn't launch as a queen. So the second party of the Netherlands must never come to power. Her party is called "Democrats." Her term of office has been very poor. She barely sent an Home Affairs Act to the Chamber. There's not that much coming out of her hands. The Ministry of Ollongren is a form of hidden unemployment. That service car could have just run around empty. The only thing Ollongren can do is announce things that don't go on, like her fatally failed crusade against the fake news, or announce a law that screams away in the First Chamber, or fail to respond to a motion of distrust against her in the First Chamber. Or destroy things, like the 30 municipalities they destroyed, or withhold a crucial report that should have played a role in the referendum on the drag law. But then: 26 June 2019. Almost in the injury period of the Ollongren ministership, she had once again arranged the press, and that led to this front page. The headline reads: 'democracy is being carefully destroyed'. Well, well, Mr. Chairman, the whole ministry was in a rush. Many genderless D66 official choked into his tofu: boys, the minister is going to do something; call the newspaper! And what wasn't the Minister going to realize? Well, preferred votes became more important, the election of the Senate was spread over two periods, and changing the Constitution becomes easier. And later we would also be treated to a youth parliament, hurray! Our President-in-Office of the Council often has to call ministers when they first go to the press and then send their ideas to the Chamber. Then there are a few days in between, and that's what the Chamber is angry about. Fortunately, the President then acts against the cabinet, and often it ends well. But Minister Ollongren bakes them all brown: more than a year later, as a Chamber, we still haven't received anything except a note, a kind of postponement note: "You'll soon get something, dear Chamber." We're still waiting, bizarre! What a brusque turn of the Chamber, and that of a minister who deals with the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. It would be a good thing if this law were passed. It is then the only democratic progress in the Ollongren period, a law coming from the Chamber and not from this minister. Hans van Mierlo said it so beautifully: channels must be dug for power. D66 doesn't dig them. Three times, D66 ministers had the opportunity to introduce democratic innovations. Among the two Purple Cabinets, which were finally a great wish of D66. The second chance was when Pechtold was Minister for Administrative Renewal. And then nothing happened. And now three times is the charm of D66'er Ollongren as minister. Nothing again. The only notable thing that Ollongren has done in the area of Home Affairs is to abolish the consultative referendum: administrative aging. Democracy isn't very popular anymore. Boris van der Ham, former chamber member of D66, appears at all kinds of meetings. He writes: "Remarkably often I hear after those meetings at the bar: well, democracy sounds nice, but part of society shouldn't actually vote. Also heard: many voters should do some sort of test. And also: it is bizarre that everyone's voice counts equally heavily." End of quote from Boris van der Ham. That's the whole egg eating. Democracy appears to mean something different in practice than many of them had imagined. Democracy also means that the people choose Trump. Or for Brexit, for Orbán, even for Geert Wilders. Of course, that can never be the intention. So the people are a lot less popular, and thus democracy. Madam President. What needs to be done is a radical democratization of the Netherlands. Choosing mayors and Commissioners of the Queen themselves and choosing judges. And, of course, referenda, not only compelling, in this case to reject laws, but also to give the people the opportunity to come up with proposals themselves for or against masks, for or against mosques, for or against the Climate Agreement, or to dismiss ministers, as happens in many places in the United States. Mr. Chairman. My contribution today is not a non-binding academic exercise. Hans van Mierlo wanted to dig canals for power. And why? To make, like he said, a revolution before it breaks out. End of quote. A revolution often means violence. So Hans van Mierlo actually said: anyone who does not renew democratically, and therefore does not want to share power, will reap blood. It's up to everyone to think about that prophecy. What I said isn't noncommittal. It is a bitter necessity to limit the power of the elites. The ideas of left-liberal, or if you like highly educated, the Netherlands lead us to ruin, on a single journey towards Hollandistan. The destruction of the Dutch people by overthrow. The destruction of the Netherlands as an independent nation. The destruction of our culture. Climate socialism that will destroy our economy. Locking our sovereignty away from Brussels so that we become an unnamed province in the Greater European Empire under German leadership. Ideas have consequences. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Martin Bosma. I call Mr Sneller, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When considering previous legislative proposals for the introduction of the correct binding referendum, their defence was compared with Sisyphoid labour. Sisyfus had tarred the Greek gods and therefore he was condemned to push up a heavy rock against a steep mountain. But when he was almost at the top, that stone rolled down again, all the way down into the valley, and had to start again from the top. Last time in that row, at Mrs Temmink's place, I was allowed to support the rock pushers. This time it is the honour of Mr Van Raak. 'Cause an honor, that's it. I wish him every success in that. Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the fact that a new proposal for a remedially binding referendum is on the table today, because our political system is fallible, and we politicians are already in fact. A representative democracy is easier said than done, even though we politicians, we MPs, are trying to represent the entire population as well as possible. The different interpretations of Article 50 of the Constitution were rightly mentioned several times in the written preparation. On the one hand, we set off our sentiments as best we can and, on the other hand, we take account of our own Members, voters and political groups above average. On the other hand, representatives of the people have a free mandate and we vote without burden. Politics is also leading, with a short "egg," having own ideas, that fit our political beliefs, values or ideas, which we try to convince as many people as possible. But at some point you also have to count your knots and compromise to bring those ideals closer. At least that's my conviction. Because of course it would be very easy if "the people" existed, with one opinion that was always easy to understand and always consistent, or had a unambiguous interpreter here in plenary. But that utopianism is misplaced and that kind of simplism is just dangerous. The reality is that living together is a mess and that democracy is messy. A clash of interests, of norms and values, along always different lines between people with different views about the good and the right. Our parliamentary democratic system then has the right task to determine the rules of the game for how we can bring these views together as best we can, so that we can live and live together as best we can. Those rules are never finished, but must always be critically questioned and, if necessary, brought to the time. Sometimes we are fully convinced of the usefulness of a proposal and we think we have made it convincingly clear, but the people really do see it differently. Or, to quote the state committee parliamentary system: "In the case of important controversial issues, it should be possible under conditions to correct a parliamentary majority when it is clearly different from the majority of the population." There is also a need for this possibility. Not only as a long-cherished wish to a majority of the population, but also more analytically according to the state committee, as an important contribution to the modernisation and addition of representative democracy. Because our democracy needs to be strengthened. Our system, with its present instruments, leaves a lot to be desired when it comes to substantive representation. Not all sections of the population make the same use of the opportunities for political participation. People for whom democracy is working less well are threatening to drop out or have already dropped out. Of course, any representative democracy inevitably has limitations, but the way in which we have shaped our system is even more substantial and sharper than we need. We must therefore look for ways to involve people better in politics. We must take steps to ensure a closer link between voters and elected representatives, to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the executive and to strengthen the separation of powers. The correct binding referendum is not the solution, just as there is no perfect democracy, but it is an important improvement, not to destroy the representative system, but precisely to correct it when it is no longer representative, as Roosevelt said more than 100 years ago. I believe that every debate on the referendum should at least quote this quote once. A complement to this representative democracy, so. It provides citizens with an emergency brake, for emergencies. In doing so, the referendum achieves and involves a wider cross-section of the population. It is precisely the citizens who experience a great distance from politics who are particularly in favour of the referendum. It also gives them an additional reason to be actively involved in the democratic debate here. As one of my predecessors on this wallet, Mr Van der Ham, he was said to be apt: the best referendum is perhaps the referendum that is not held because it acts as a stick behind the door and forces politics to listen and argue. I paraphrase a little, but he used words of this kind. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it: democracy is messy, raspy. In 2017, the D66 members amended the following sentence in our election programme: "This correctively binding referendum does not include international treaties." While, as you all know, the amendment of the constitution which did not rule out international treaties and amendments at second reading is impossible. Talk about an emergency brake. But after this conference, our political union didn't sit still. Within D66 an extensive project on democratisation was launched with our scientific agency, our national government and Rob Jetten as the spokesperson for democratisation at the time. Countless conversations with independent experts and many member evenings were organized throughout the country. That project led to today's Congress Resolution Democracy in 2018, with 18 proposals for democratic renewal. If you haven't read it yet, I highly recommend it. With this resolution, our Members are instructing us to take the electoral programme as the starting point for the referendum, and the amendment on the international treaties has also been distributed, but above all to seek the widest possible support for the referendum with other forms of interpretation. That is my attitude in this debate: with an open vision. At the same time, I feel that it is also my task to have the substantive debate on these conditions and to implement this broad consensus. Not only because of those members, but also because democratic instruments contain the devil in the details. Design matters, because that desire for broad support sometimes also creates fanciers who lead to unwanted side effects. Think, for example, of the turnout threshold in the consultative referendum, which brought some of the voters into a split between votes in favour or not votes or, as the state committee calls it, undesirable strategic voting behaviour. I am therefore pleased that the initiator, with the State Committee, has opted for a threshold of outcome. About that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u17	Yes, finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u18	Speaking of which, to what extent can the initiator and our adviser from the cabinet also agree on the level of the thresholds proposed by the State Commission? I am, of course, particularly curious about the threshold of outcome which Mr Futselaar has already mentioned. Earlier, the initiator indicated that they serve as a good starting point for the discussion, but can I derive his support from that, or should they be higher or lower? As my question to Mr Futselaar was: can he explain again why he, the author, feels that these thresholds do not belong in the Constitution and whether they apply equally to all thresholds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u19	I would like to come back to Mr Sneller's amendment on international treaties. I agree with a great deal of his contribution this evening, and especially with regard to the need to involve people in the democracy that is now excluded. I think back to the 2005 Constitutional referendum in which I have been quite active. At that time, in dozens of rooms, I debated amendments in hand with a thick piece of text. I dare say that there has never been so much talk of Europe in Dutch history as in 2005. This is also reflected in the turnout at that referendum, which was higher than the turnout at European elections in the Netherlands ever was. My question is, therefore, whether Mr Sneller does not see that the referendum is a means of achieving international agreements and involving people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u20	As can be seen from the argument of the amendment, it particularly damages the negotiating position and the international position of the Netherlands and thus reduces the influence of the Netherlands in such processes. On the contrary, it is something which often involves years of negotiations in an international context with different countries, making it undesirable to have international treaties referendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u21	I think that this is only the case if you lose, but it can of course also simply be that you submit an international treaty and that you win, which strengthens your position in the negotiations. The appeal I would like to make to Mr Sneller is actually the appeal of a passionate European. Don't let the discussions about Europe bleed to death in rooms of the European Commission. This is an excellent way of getting abstract, far away from many people lively discussions and into society. That's what we saw in 2005.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u22	I think that you should certainly continue to do so in order to bring it there and to be clear about those views, including before elections. I also think that this could make an important contribution to this. What Mr Futselaar forgets is the endless processes that are in it and what they mean in the international context for the Netherlands to have to go back. Mr Futselaar blames me: if you win in the referendum, that will be pleasant. No, it is also a question of that signature becoming, by definition, insecure and that there should always be some kind of reservation, which also damages the negotiating position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u23	Then there is the technical question: if you have a ratification, which we have in European treaties, there is always a certain degree of uncertainty. It has happened before that countries sign something but then not ratify it eventually; I call the United States when it comes to the International Criminal Court, if I am right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u24	The question is whether you want to increase the uncertainty. My wish isn't. My wish is to reduce that uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u25	I am surprised to hear the argument why international treaties should not be referendable, because yes, the uncertainty. But then, as a negotiator, you did not take the people with you enough to convince them that it is a meaningful treaty? Then the uncertainty can't be an argument, can it? Then the negotiator, the government in your own reasoning doesn't do its job properly, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u26	No, it's inherently insecure with that. Whatever the outcome of the referendum, there will always be an additional process step before that signature is sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u27	But then we have to invest in that lead route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u28	So I very much agree with you. That is also what Mr Futselaar said, but there are all kinds of other instruments for this, which do not undermine the negotiating position and which are necessary, and which are also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u29	And then your argument will simply lapse? "Then the outcome becomes uncertain" cannot be an argument anymore? Then the assignment's in the lead, isn't it? You have to invest in that and you have to put your ear to your ears: what does the people want? You'll pass that on to the negotiation result. Yes, I am not in favour of the referendum, but I think this is actually a bit of an opportunistic reasoning. This is not consistent. This is an opportunity argument and I find that a bit unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u30	I believe that Mr Bishop underestimates the international context of this kind of negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u31	I also have a question about the exclusion of international treaties from referendums. It has to do with the content of all these international conventions. I believe that a large part of the major issues of immigration, climate plans, the ever-expanding European Union and also such as the Association Treaty with Ukraine have an international context. As the previous speaker said, this is a bit of an opportunity argument. The argument that you have to negotiate internationally does not really make sense, because you always have to negotiate in politics, so also nationally and also internationally. Isn't it a secret fact that D66 simply doesn't want the people to be able to actually express themselves on these big issues? Those referenda may hang and strangle a lot, but only when it comes to curbs and small, very small subjects. But on the major issues, which are now international, citizens must keep their mouths shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u32	However, Mr Baudet trivializes the scope of the law that remains. For example, the climate plans remain referenceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u33	I am pleased to hear that you are apparently also in favour of a referendum on these bizarre climate plans. I warmly welcome that, but of course you also have the Green Deal of Timmermans. You may be able to hold a referendum nationwide, but if Timmermans' Green Deal just comes down on us, your national margin of manoeuvre, including through that referendum, is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u34	That would also be the case if international treaties were to be referendable. Then we are talking about a referendum at European level. That's not what this law is about either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u35	It is therefore about all the laws and rules that apply in the Netherlands. As a population, you can say, "I want to do this, I don't want to do this." As I understand you now, D66 would like another footnote: unless it went through our international friends in Brussels, Geneva or the United Nations. Then you turn the Dutch people in front of a wheel. They'll think, "We have a referendum now." I'm just kidding, not really! That's what happens then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u36	I think we are in the first reading, it is a very clear amendment and you are the one who is making a fool of yourself here. Mr Baudet is a big fan of bilateral treaties. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u37	I therefore find it absurd that you should not be able to present it in a referendum. But just one thing to be certain: do I understand that if this amendment fails, D66 will also vote against the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u38	I believe that Mr Baudet has heard that I am very positive about this proposal. Before Mr Baudet was present, we had a number of other discussions on the thresholds and the search for broad support. I have also just explained how I entered this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u39	You say 'before Mr Baudet was present'. We have monitors these days. I'm just following the whole debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u40	Then it would please Mr Baudet to simply bring it up...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u41	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, First Mr Baudet and then Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u42	I just walked to the interrupting microphone because I just want a yes-no answer to this. I think it is a very bad amendment. I am sorry to hear you say that anything with an international context is not allowed in a referendum. But what if that amendment doesn't make it? Suppose a majority of the House says: we do not want that amendment. Would D66 still vote for this bill? Or is D66 going to vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u43	There are several amendments. What I have just said is that I think we should look at how we can achieve the broadest possible support, so that we can achieve that two-thirds majority. In any case, this was also necessary to achieve a two-thirds majority last time. It is therefore my wish that this amendment should be adopted, but we should also look at, for example, the outcome thresholds, which may be important for other groups, so that we do not have to thumb down, as Mr Bosma said in his term, and then, hopefully, look after the elections to see if there is a two-thirds majority. We need to maximize that opportunity; that is what I want to do. Last time I worked for nine years with successive spokesmen on the correct binding referendum. I am very much inclined to ensure that we maximise the chances of success. Then I guess this could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u44	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u45	But you can also contribute to this with your own voting behaviour or not. That is why the question is: what would be your voting behaviour if this amendment were to fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u46	My voting behaviour will not depend solely on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u47	So you don't know yet. You do not yet know whether you are going to vote for or against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u48	I am very positive about this, but it is my intention to ensure that we make it possible to achieve a two-thirds majority in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u49	But that's still not an answer. It's very simple, isn't it? Mr Sneller should not hide behind all kinds of other amendments and maximise the chances of their adoption. There's just a very clear, simple question. If the amendment on the international context and international treaties fails, what will D66 vote? I'd like a single-letter answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u50	It is very easy for Mr Bosma, because he keeps a story, he does not submit any amendments and has no substantive consideration of the legislative proposal. That's not how I'm going into this law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u51	No you-bake. I just want an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u52	No, this is my answer. There will be a number of amendments. One has been tabled by Mrs Özütok. Last time, for example, there were a number of amendments from the Christian Union, which were important to it. That is why I asked Mr Futselaar about this. Those amendments were decisive for them. I want to see which amendments will be adopted, and then we will vote. But Mr Bosma has also heard that I am very positive about this bill. So he's also looking for nails on low water. It would be a good thing for him to have that debate in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr Sneller is now hiding behind Mrs Özütok's amendment. It is about elections or referendums at water boards and local authorities. That is fine, but that is completely separate from the amendment. Just give me a very simple answer. If that amendment of yours doesn't make it, it could just happen. What are you going to vote for? That's crucial. I share Mr Baudet's suspicion and also think that you are looking for a way out, looking for a way out of this and saying: sorry, there will be referenda on international affairs and we do not want that, so we are totally opposed to this correct binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u54	I didn't say that. I have just said that my voting behaviour does not depend on the success of this amendment. Members have just requested that this is an interesting concept to seek the broadest possible support. That's what I'm trying to do here. If you want it to make it next time, it's important to do it now. I also said that design matters. The turnout threshold didn't get in until a novelle, to make sure it made it. It was kind of tricky in the end. It turned out wrong. That is also what the state committee says. So let's also see which amendments are coming up in a moment. Let us discuss it in terms of content, so that we can vote on the basis of the legislative proposal that is ultimately there with all the amendments in it. But don't look for nails on low water at my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u56	I think we started with Mr Futselaar, but I have to look. That brings me to the other conditions, but then I think I will skip the international treaties and ask the author, who says: I really lean very much on the state committee. However, the State Committee says that an overall basis in the Constitution is necessary in order to determine, when drafting and implementing legislation, exactly which international conventions should be excluded. But that global basis is not in his negative list. My question to the author is: if he thinks he did it with copy-paste, as a previous speaker said, why not do this part? How does the government look at this point, I ask the Minister of the Interior. It is precisely as a supporter of the correct binding referendum that I think we should also be honest about the expectations of this instrument. It is a correction, after the parliamentary part of the legislative process. For example, sometimes objections are only directed against specific aspects of a legislative proposal. For example, the initiators of the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act stressed that they were not necessarily against a new Wiv. But they said, We do not want the law off the table; we want it to be different; the law contains mistakes. But Mr Van Raak's proposal does not provide a formal channel for making public, concrete suggestions. That is why we need to look more broadly for new instruments, such as, for example, the proposal I made earlier to introduce a right of citizens' amendment. Fortunately, in the written reply, I saw some enthusiasm with the author. But also around the referendum itself, these more deliberative, interactive, participatory additions can be interesting, according to the research "Referencing and deliberating" of Tilburg University. The researchers note that many countries have also sought additional elements around referenda, such as constructive suggestions. On the basis of foreign examples, researchers suggest three forms of civil forum directly linked to the referendum: preparing for referendum, informing referendums or following referendums. My question to the author is: what does he think of these ideas? One thing is very important for the acceptance of the referendum, namely the expectations of the consequences of a negative outcome of a referendum. It seems so simple: it means that the proposal is off the table. But is it really the intention that the legislator should sit on his hands for about ten years after that? So many voters, so many reasons for their vote, I would almost say, and so there is no one, objective and correct answer to the question of how you do justice to such a result. Formally, a Member of Parliament or the Cabinet is free to start a new legislative process the next day. If they are sensible, they will of course take into account the campaign and the results. Otherwise there will always be that emergency brake at the end. However, I would like to hear from the author how he looks more broadly at this question of the expectation of the consequences of a negative result, and I am curious how he thinks, for example, of such a referendum following citizens' forum. You will hear it, Mr President, and I look forward to Mr Van Raak's constructive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u58	Mr. Chairman. Not only Mr Bosman has a reasonable...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u59	Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u60	Bosma. Did I say Bosman? Sorry, it's a little late tonight. But not only does he have a fairly historical memory. In the meantime, I am also involved for a number of years, so I don't need 40 pages to know what I think of the binding or corrective referendum. Let me start with the bouncer: my group intends to support this bill. I would like to congratulate Mr Van Raak on having taken the trouble, although here and there with some plagiarism, to be back in business today to defend this bill. I congratulate not only him, but also his collaborator Nicole Temmink, who is once again late in the bench to help him. Mr. Chairman. This isn't a process for a while, but it's still going on for a long time. The corrective referendum has also taken place in our history. At a certain point in time, our congress also said: ho, just in place; is it not wise to take a closer look at how the consultative referendum works in particular and what lessons should be drawn from it before we move on to the corrective referendum? And how should we take steps to do that? At the same time, by adopting a broad motion at our last congress, it has also been indicated that it is time to give room for further action. I therefore never thought it wise to withdraw the consultative referendum or not to continue with the corrective referendum. Personally, I was not motivated by negative examples. Mr Krol began by saying that this is your only instrument against a majority or against backrooms, that this is the only instrument you have as a minority. I do not believe that that is entirely true, because the majority can also abuse a referendum to draw power to themselves, for example when it comes to migration policy. Also a majority, or a minority, can get the desired result... look at the Brexit... but that doesn't mean that that outcome is also blissful. A corrective referendum is therefore never an end in itself. It is a means of achieving something, but the way forward says just as much about the outcome as the follow-up to a corrective referendum says about how successful it is to be understood. The indiscriminate adoption of a referendum can be very successful, but it can also fail very badly. The non-take-over or half-take-over may sometimes be very successful, because you are doing exactly what is actually meant by the referendum. Or you're doing the wrong thing. Learning does not stand still in this respect, but my motivation and conviction is precisely to go for the instrument because society is changing, because democracy is changing and because you simply don't have the luxury to stand still in it. You must constantly seek new ways of shaping democracy with each other, especially as our Chamber becomes more multiple. We too have changed that. We do not have a two-party system, but a party system in which a number of parties had automatic control is no longer a fact. So we also need to look for new ways in this pluralism. With this message, we will also engage in dialogue with our members, with our constituents and with our supporters. Also in our constituency are people who think a referendum is fantastic, and there are people who hate it. We, too, are not finished with this discussion, and I am sure that will play a role at the next conference. As I said, my group is in favour of this bill, but there is another question that I am still struggling with, namely how to deal with international treaties. Purely technical, you can regulate this in underlying legislation and you do not have to do so in the Constitution, but I would appreciate it very much if the initiator, Mr Van Raak, would like to go into more specific detail as to why he has explicitly opted for underlying legislation and not for the Constitution. Has there been any consideration of going into sub-treaties? And what advantages and disadvantages does that have? Take us into the system of how he would see underlying legislation, which should also be adopted by a two-thirds majority, but that is, of course, for later. Mr President, I shall conclude, in view of my time. Much success, much thanks and I look forward to the answer, which I am sure will take place in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u62	First of all, I would like to congratulate the author, or the initiator, or the plagiarist, or the plagiarist, I do not know exactly what to say about his work, i.e. the taking over of the work. I think it is good that we can all participate in such a legislative process in this way, even though I do not quite know if I will express a position with which I can give Mr Van Raak a warm heart. But that doesn't change the fact that it's good to have the trial. Thank you in any case for the opportunity to give substance to our task in this way. Mr. Chairman. We have already indicated in the written questions in the report that this legislative proposal is about the eighth or ninth proposal for a referendum, if you add up all these things and splash out a little bit. We have explained this in that context, and we have already more or less complimented Mr Van Raak on his firm determination. Fortunately, Mr Van Raak has also taken this as a compliment. We like that and we can also imagine something about it. Assuming that the present initiative proposal should serve to strengthen representative democracy, representative democracy, you expect, of course, a thorough discussion of the pros and cons of that bill, and a well-argued description of the justification. But I have to say honestly: the explanation of this constitutional change is a little painful. It's rubbing a little bit. The motivation and consideration of the pros and cons feel a little shaky, because in the explanatory statement I read in particular: I appeal to the state committee. Well, I find it a little surprising in itself that a colleague of the SP is in any case relying on the authority of another, higher authority, but that is of course allowed. "The state committee says a, so I say a. The state committee finds b, so I follow b." The rest of the alphabet, of all the proposals that are being made, let us forget. Yeah, it's like cherry picking, cherry picking. Look, I understand that the petitioner is inspired by the state committee. It's also an interesting report, absolutely. The fact that he likes to use their advice to amend the Constitution on this point is understandable, but it is a bit of a weakness that this SP proposal is so explicitly wrapped up in the dress of that State Commission. I don't think that would have been necessary. However, on the other hand, it is true that Mr Van Raak has previously made such proposals, and so Mr Van Raak is well aware that the SGP really chooses and continues to opt for the uncircumcised representative, representative, democracy. Not because the SGP believes that politics always takes wise decisions, but because the parliamentary arena is the place where, after a thorough debate and consideration of all the pros and cons, the choice is finally made. The electorate can appeal to the people's representatives on their voting behaviour in the interim. You must be open to that, we believe, but certainly also in the elections. It is up to us as politicians to explain why the choices were made as they were made. Anyone who wants to involve citizens more in legislation and policies can count on our support. We wholeheartedly agree; for that you should seek forms. Well, then it's up to you to decide when that happens. The SGP does not consider a corrective referendum to be an appropriate instrument after the end of the parliamentary debate. I'll work that out a little bit. In the case of referenda, the representativeness is not certain. A majority of voters who make a particular choice can still be a relatively small minority of the electorate. But more importantly, whether there will be a referendum is to a large extent a choice inspired by a relatively small, pronounced group in society. It is quite likely that or only part of the electorate is involved in the issue, whether the proposal is hijacked by an interest group or lobby, or whether people feel they are subsequently bought into a slightly modified proposal as a result of a referendum. Mr Van Raak says: "The plea for a referendum as a final stage of the representative system can be based on the more general understanding that a stable democracy requires more than maintaining the status quo: problems, tensions and conflicts must be resolved and not ignored until they accumulate into even greater problems." I refer to the note on the basis of the report. I want to zoom in on this. Can Mr Van Raak indicate which problems are not resolved? Can he indicate which of these problems can only be resolved by means of a referendum, a corrective referendum? Can he also indicate how a corrective referendum could solve a problem, tension or conflict if that problem had been ignored? Doesn't the initiator believe with the SGP that a referendum on a politically difficult issue exacerbates tensions rather than solves them? And what means does he see to prevent that, if this is the intention of such a law? The Section is right to refer to the Council of State's opinion on a "Principal and far-reaching change in the state system." In our opinion, the initiator does not make too much of his proposal. That makes it a little smaller than it is. What am I saying, a little smaller than it is. In depth, it is a somewhat dated solution to a much more complex issue in our view, which is not a real solution, but also a source of new problems. So we see that you do not notice the added value, while the negative effects are obvious. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add a footnote after thanking the author once again. We were very surprised by the fine, critical question posed by D66 in the report. We criticize each other sometimes. But if you can give compliments towards your colleagues, you should of course call that an opportunity to benefit. When I read it, I really got the impression that this party, once established for the sake of democratic renewal, is also brightening. I quote a few questions: "Does he believe that the legislator should abstain entirely from any new initiatives? If so, for how long? And how does he feel about a modified bill? How can he best understand whether an amended legislative proposal meets the concerns of the part of the population who voted against the original proposal? Who should indicate the (permissive) reason of rejecting a particular bill by a majority of the population? And who should indicate when the objections underlying the negative result have been adequately justified?" These are extremely relevant questions. It is also nice that D66 simply asks those questions in that openness. So we are also very curious about what the final voting behaviour will be. I'm not the only one in that, I've noticed. In any case, these questions alone make it clear that referendums which can only be answered yes or no must provide no further clarity. That must be enough to put that instrument of a corrective referendum in the right light. In order to stay a bit in the style of the author, I should really leave it at that. But before I do that, I just want to say that I understand the choice to include the number of signatures and the threshold of outcome in an ordinary law. These numbers are not just about implementing rules, but about key elements that would belong in the Constitution. How do you decide? A constitutional change is made at two thirds on balance and you don't record it in the law, but you anchor it in the Constitution. The SGP will therefore not support this eighth, ninth or tenth draft referendum. With Mr Van Raak, he will continue to oppose interest groups democracy and lobby democracy, because the lobby industry does not serve representative democracy. That is not what parliamentary democracy is for. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Raak on all his work and, of course, the people behind Mr Van Raak, because the Council of State has not called on us as a parliament to take our legislative task seriously again for nothing. I know there's a lot of work to do on such an initiative law. Even if there's some plagiarism, it's a lot of work. I would like to pay tribute to that. I see Mr Van Raak looking a bit gilded, but he should not be too rich, because I should probably disappoint him by saying that the VVD has serious doubts about this bill. But I'll get to that in a minute. Madam President. The advantage of summer is that you can update your professional literature well again. I found in my bookcase an extremely nice work by the initiator, entitled Het Binnenhof, who continues to amaze, on which he stands before our powerful parliament. But what is my surprise? I saw some paperwork at the court pond. I think it's paper boats sinking. On one of these paper boats, "bankers" is said to be immediately apparent that Mr Van Raak did not deny his political background, but at the very front I see the referendum boat sinking as well. I do not know whether Mr Van Raak has a forward-looking view of this, but it does stand out. It stands out. The last chapter in this work, which I can strongly recommend, is about the fight for the referendum. This clearly shows that we are not here for the first time to talk about the referendum. Well, that's what you get as a historian, and I'll take a look at Mr Futselaar; the first time was already in 1905, when Mr Troelstra made an attempt to introduce a referendum. Oh, I see Mr Futselaar standing up immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u65	The Republic had two referendums on a Constitution at the end of the eighteenth century. The first one has been rejected. After the second time, if I'm right, it took a coup attempt by France. This was, among other things, about abolishing the autonomous role of the provinces in achieving a single state. Some of us in the east still find that regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u67	I should have known with a teacher. Indeed, referendums were submitted during the Batavian Republic. I had hoped that Mr Futselaar's knowledge did not reach this far, but I admit immediately: you have seen that well. But let's assume for a moment that, when we talk about the modern parliamentary system, we're going to count from 1848. In the booklet we see: 1983, 1999, 2005, 2014 and indeed, just three years ago Mr Van Raak was also here. Then he saw his proposal fall in the same position. But Mr Van Raak has shown himself to be a very optimistic man. A tenacious person, that's one way of putting it. He's writing in the paper today that he thinks he's gonna make it. In the same booklet, by the way, Mr Van Raak reveals himself as a lover of train travel. He literally writes, perhaps with a certain sigh: "Final time to think, something you owe so little to in the Binnenhof." So I was also under the assumption that on his train journeys he was eagerly thinking about this bill, about the non-plagiar part, let's just say. I imagine that Mr Van Raak has been watching that emergency brake in his train compartment all this time. For it is not for nothing that we always talk about an emergency brake in a referendum. The people pull the emergency brake and yell "halt, stop!', after which the government train squeaks and cracks in the Dutch polder landscape comes to a standstill. Why does the initiator think that I read that in the newspaper article, but also in the initiative proposal, the time is now ripe for the final report of the parliamentary committee? That committee recommends the introduction of a remedially binding referendum. As a VVD, and we have often argued this, we at least endorse the analysis underlying the opinion of the State Commission, namely that 70% to 80% of the Dutch people have a lot of confidence in our democratic system and that 50% still have confidence in the politicians. Moreover, these figures are not so bad compared to the rest of Europe. But, as the committee says at the same time: two thirds of the Dutch want to have more influence on important political decisions. Remkes presents a total of 83 recommendations in his comprehensive book. Some are excellent, but we still question the opinion that the referendum would be the solution to restore confidence in politics. I have put together four arguments for this. Firstly, we think that the referendum is far too crude. It actually simplifies complex questions into a simple question for or against. You can also see the Brexit there is an example of the fact that the motives in both camps, both for and against voters, can be very diverse. That is why you can see that even the victors after the end often have a lot of frustration, because they still had very different thoughts when they voted in favour or against. A second argument is that simple solutions often do not exist and can often lead to consequences that have apparently not been taken into account at all in the first instance. An example of this is the 2014 Swiss referendum in which a narrow majority decided to limit migration. However, when the government wanted to implement this, it turned out to be contrary to the agreements made in Europe on the free movement of persons. This would have such serious trade consequences that the government eventually decided on a very weak measure, which was in fact contrary to the outcome of the referendum. The third argument is that you also see the infamous participatory paradox popping up in the referendum. This is also seen in other forms of participation: if you offer an instrument to the population, in order to participate in policies, you see that often only a very small group uses it. For example, in the case of the Ukraine referendum, only one third of the electorate went to the polling station. It seems to us that this is why we are calling for it, talking about a referendum, to include a threshold for entry or entry. The fourth argument is that a yes or no question simply leads to an all-or-no democracy: a small majority that can drive its way against a minority. As far as we are concerned, this is completely contrary to Dutch political culture. It is precisely in the Dutch Parliament that a party has never reached the majority. And partly because of the changing society, we see that Parliament is increasingly fragmented. This means that as a party, you always have to look for majorities, and so you have to polder, so you have to compromise and make concessions. No one can get their way completely. As far as I am concerned, this is one of the essential points of Dutch parliamentary democracy. Of course, I am very curious about what the author, Mr Van Raak, thinks about this. I hope he can reflect on that in his term. I have two specific questions for the author. The first concerns the local referendum, the referendum at provincial and municipal level. In fact, Mr Van Raak wants to widen the scope for this: by general measure of government, not only regulations, say municipal laws, but also decisions, can become part of a referendum. I would like to ask Mr Van Raak whether this cannot lead to the train being barely driven anymore. The emergency brake is pulled so much that the train doesn't get on steam anymore. My second question: imagine that your proposal had been adopted in 2017 and that we would have had a correct binding referendum in 2017. I have just looked at the major issues, the major public debates, of the last three years, which have been clearly recognised by the people. A number of things occurred to me: the Climate Agreement there was a lot to do: the migration pact, the nitrogen problem, the dividend tax and the corona approach. I therefore ask myself the following question: that is also the question I would like to ask Mr Van Raak. A lot of these subjects are not really referendable at all. On what subjects for the past two or three years, Mr Van Raak would like to say: that is an example in which I actually expected a referendum, provided that my proposal had already reached it in 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u69	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. I would like to begin by thanking the author, Mr Van Raak. I want to congratulate him on the work he put into the bill. Once again, I would like to say an own-initiative proposal. During the grass dunes to previous treatments of initiative legislation on referenda I also encountered all his name, namely in 2009. This reflects the tireless and long-standing commitment of our colleague Van Raak to our democracy, who is very close to his heart. At this point I would also like to thank his colleague, Mrs Temmink, who has contributed to this. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to our contribution. The Remkes Committee of State also referred to it two years ago "that the Dutch electoral system of proportional representation can still be regarded as quite successful and that it can count on great support'. However, the committee also pointed out to us that "The substantive representation is inadequate. The social reality shows that parliamentary democracy is not working equally well for everyone at the moment and that citizens for whom democracy is working less well are at risk of turning away from politics or being abandoned." The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also outlines the growing gap between groups of citizens, such as between high- and low-skilled people and between high- and low-income people, people in a comfortable position and people in an uncertain position. There is a group of about 30% who does not want to vote, who does not feel represented and who feels that the government is not there for them. That has been quite an intrusive analysis of the Remkes Committee. It is that context that the Christian Union has in mind when assessing this bill. During the 2009 legal process, I just said that my predecessor, Ed Anker, outlined on behalf of the Christian Union a line that has not changed much for the Christian Union in the last eleven years. The Christian Union is a strong supporter of our representative democracy with proportional representation. It is a special system that ensures that minorities can be heard and invites and even forces them to cooperate and bridge differences. Perhaps it is a system that makes the Netherlands the Netherlands. But no system is perfect, and ours certainly is not perfect; the State Committee has pointed that out to us. The line between fruitful cooperation and incomprehensible compromises can sometimes be thinner than previously thought. What in the Hague bubble is a logical negotiation result, is sometimes not explained in the villages and cities. Sometimes our system does not lead to connection and bridging, but rather to removal and incomprehension and, in particular, we read in the report of the Remkes Committee, for the 30% of voters who feel not represented and heard. A referendum is not the recipe for a perfect democracy, not a medicine for public discontent or a guarantee for the best involvement of citizens. The Christian Union was not in favour of the consultative referendum. I argued in the debate on this two years ago that it is often a recipe for disappointment and that it is not compatible with how we set up our parliamentary democracy, where we have elected representatives with a mandate, who have to come to an uncompromising judgment on a legislative proposal. At the moment when there is no adopted proposal, but already a result of an advisory referendum, that parliament can ignore it. But then this parliament will soon be blamed for not taking the voters seriously and disdaining the voters. That's a recipe for disappointment. That is one reason why the Christian Union had also agreed to abolish that form of referendum. It is also good that we look at other proposals. The correct binding referendum is in itself an instrument that is not so contrary to our parliamentary democracy and our system and that could even be an addition to it, but it should function as an emergency brake. Then it could be an addition to the system, especially for those who feel that they have lost control and their influence. A correct binding referendum can therefore be an instrument to support representative democracy, but it should not undermine it. I ask the author how he looks at that point of departure. Can the petitioner explain why his bill, in particular with the specific wording of the correct binding referendum he is in favour of, is that balance well guarded? I'm going into a few choices made in the bill. A number of exceptions, such as Royal House laws, constitutional changes and tax legislation, have been chosen to be constitutionally incorporated. The Christian Union believes that this is a very sensible choice. However, my group still has questions about the choice not to include international treaties and even to include a provision to make treaties that are implicitly approved part of the referendum. Can the initiator elaborate on the underlying arguments? What consequences can it have for the diplomatic force of the Netherlands? And at what point should such a treaty, which is not ratified by law, be submitted for referendum? I would also like to hear from the Minister how she looks at Article 89f and the choice not to include international treaties. As in 2009, another serious objection by the Christian Union Group to this bill is the absence of a wording for the outcome threshold in the Constitutional provision. We think it is right that a threshold should be chosen, but as far as the Christian Union is concerned, the level of such a threshold should be included in the Constitution. It is precisely this that determines whether there is an addition to our representative system, whether there is a real emergency brake, if you like, or whether it is an infringement of that same system and an advance towards direct democracy. That is why the threshold is an important guarantee that belongs in the Constitution as far as the Christian Union is concerned. I ask the author how he stands on that. I have just heard his colleague on behalf of the SP say something about this in an interruption to Mr Sneller, but I would also like to hear the views of the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u70	Yeah, the turnout threshold. Does the speaker agree with me that a turnout threshold as we had at the Ukraine referendum is a real danger? There were supporters and opponents, and if there were sufficient turnout, the opponents would most likely win. That was actually well known in the weeks that preceded it. There wasn't a single poll where the proponents even came close to half plus one. So it was clear that the opponents were going to win that referendum. The only question was, are they gonna make it to the turnout threshold? Then you had a group of supporters who said we shouldn't vote, because they wouldn't make it to the turnout threshold. Do you understand that this is a real danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u71	Sure. I just talked about the outcome threshold, not the turnout threshold. In fact, I think that is a very undesirable reaction that can be imagined when you would introduce an entry threshold, but I did not just talk about an entry threshold, but about an outcome threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u72	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u73	The Christian Union would like there to be an outcome threshold... The outcome threshold is the outcome of the referendum. Then it's not the turnout, it's the outcome of the matter. For example, that is half plus one, or as the state committee says, 33% as a threshold before the result can count.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u74	Sorry, I don't understand. What is the difference between outcome threshold and entry threshold? That's news to me. What do you mean by that? What's 33%? 33% of what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u75	Well, I'd be happy to explain. The turnout threshold, I think, you have understood very well, because it has just been shown to you. This means that the result is only valid when an x-percentage of voters show up to vote. Then you will indeed have the effect, as you say, that people stay at home to ensure that that threshold is not reached and that the result cannot be counted at all. We in the Christian Union do not think that counting with a turnout threshold is the way we should do it if there were a correct binding referendum, if we were to do so. However, the outcome is relevant: what is the outcome of the referendum and when do we think it should count? You can think different about that. The Remkes State Commission has made proposals. I know you're a big fan of referenda, but I also hope you'll just review the report from the State Committee. It's been two years, I can see that too...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u76	But why don't you explain to me what an outcome threshold is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u77	No, no, Mrs. Van der Graaf is still at it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u78	I've already reported that. The question is when the result is valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u79	Yeah, and when's that gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u80	Is it valid at the time when 33% said "we are against this law" as an emergency brake or is it valid at the time when more than half of the people have declared that they are against that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u81	Yeah, but isn't that always the case? If more than half are against it, the majority are against it. That's the whole joke of a referendum. You have supporters and opponents. If half plus one is against, then the outcome is against. If half plus one is in, the outcome is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u82	Yes, but the question is, where do you put the threshold and when do you declare the result valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr President, this is a completely incomprehensible prose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u84	I would like to help by quoting from the explanatory memorandum of the bill, in which this is explained. It states, which is based on the opinion of the State Commission: "On the basis of a number of considerations, the State Commission reaches a threshold of one third of the electoral population. This means that a legislative proposal has been rejected by referendum if a majority of the votes cast vote against the proposal and this majority includes at least one third of those entitled to take part in the vote." That is just for the clarity of the debate. It's always good to read a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u86	Mrs. Van der Graaf, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u87	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the last question I wanted to ask the petitioner: is it negotiable to include that in the bill? In other words, why didn't the petitioner choose to do so? A constitutional revision is not only a necessary number of votes, but also a genuinely different order of procedure and duration than a simple legislative amendment. That's how the Christian Union looks at it. It helps to see beyond the delusion of the day. It also underlines that it really has to function as an emergency brake. That is just an issue for my group. I am considering submitting an amendment to this effect. The question arises as to where this threshold should lie. We just exchanged it in the debate with Mr Baudet. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, it is important that that threshold is really firm. After all, a mandate has been given to Parliament in representative democracy. The overruling of such a mandate must therefore only be possible if a very large part of the electorate supports it, and preferably a part that represents the majority. The initiator refers to the threshold of 33.3% of the Remkes Committee, but I also read about the 40% threshold proposed by the Council of State because this broadly corresponds to half the turnout in the Lower House elections. So that's a 40% reasoning. In the past, we have sometimes proposed a threshold of half plus one of the turnout of the most recent parliamentary elections. Mr. Chairman. You will hear: the level of the threshold is also about key questions and beliefs about when a referendum has power of expression. I would very much like to hear from the initiator how he looks at this. He himself chose not to include this in the Constitution by means of this bill, but to make the choice to respond to it only in implementing legislation. However, I am very curious about the ideas that the author has in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u88	But this is bullshit, isn't it? There are countless elections in the Netherlands where you all have different types of turnout? In the provincial states, it is around 50%. There has even been an election to the European Parliament once, where the turnout was less than 30%. Then we are not going to say: oh, the turnout is a bit lower; then do we ignore the result of this election? An election is an election, right? That is simply the moment when we go to the ballot box and the majority who then went to the ballot box decides. It is not at any time in the whole of democracy, in any election, that we allow turnout to determine whether it is valid or not. That's a cartel trick, isn't it? That is simply a way of making it virtually impossible to win a referendum through the back door. If you say "40% of the people, so 40% of the people in the Netherlands, in total, must actually be against it," then you make it almost impossible. Then you have to run such a huge campaign and get such a huge amount of people on their feet. Anything you give the people to democratic participation through the referendum will be taken away by putting those ridiculous thresholds back in place. You can see that, can't you? Then just admit it. Then just say: we do not want to do that; we simply want to continue to divide the jobs here and maintain the cartel. Say that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u89	No, not at all. I had hoped that Mr Baudet would have listened to me very carefully. Mr Baudet would have heard that the Christian Union is very much in favour of the proportional representation and representative democracy that we have here, but that the Christian Union can imagine that we are looking at a binding corrective referendum and that it can be an instrument that complements the parliamentary system we have in the Netherlands. But you have to deal with that carefully, because of the mandate you were elected with. Voters have given you the mandate to make considerations and to judge a bill like this and many others. This week, we're going to be discussing a lot of them incredibly. Perhaps I will see you again tomorrow morning in the debate on the corona notification app. These are important laws and proposals that we as Parliament should consider. We have been given a mandate for this. We should not take this mandate lightly. At the moment when we as a parliament have made a choice which the people say 'here the Chamber, the Parliament, has just taken a really wrong turn; we cannot agree with this and we do not feel represented and not heard in it', an emergency brake may be appropriate. That is what we are talking about today, at least that is how the Christian Union sees a correct binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u90	I know what the subject of the debate is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u91	And then it shouldn't be light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u92	No one's talking about lightly either. The point is that in general elections in the Netherlands, the whole country is dominated by all those parties, campaigns and so on for three months. Then there's something for everyone. One votes because of the mortgage interest deduction. Another wants higher benefits. Another wants less immigration or whatever. So you get a relatively high turnout, because a lot of people are involved in that election. That's beautiful, too. But the point of the referendum is that you are going to look at one specific issue, for example the issue of charging, mortgage interest deductions or something else. You're looking at a specific subject. Then we ask people in the Netherlands, everyone who has an interest in this or is interested in it: boys, how do you feel about this? Then you put it back with the population, or she can force it herself. The whole idea that 40% or 50% of the people who stood up in the last election should be opposed is contrary to the reality of this kind of decision-making. Nor is it the case that half plus one of all Members of Parliament always co-debate on one legislative proposal. No, we'll split that up, too. In Switzerland you can see that as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u93	But that's how we vote. Our decisions will not be adopted until they are supported by half plus one. I had really hoped that Mr Baudet would also judge his own role here a little more weighty. It is really not lighthearted what you have here, as a mandate, in this Chamber and at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u94	That's not the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u95	Nor have I given any information on what we would like to see as a proposal. I would like to ask the author here today to reflect on that. Because I see that the state committee has thought about this and reaches a percentage. The Council of State has thought about it, and proposals have been made in the past, including by my party, to make it even harder. You want a very low threshold there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u96	No threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u97	Not even a threshold. Then we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u99	The last point I would like to make is that the author also proposes that this should be given a place for provincial and municipal decision-making. I do have a few more questions. Can the author explain the need for this? What signals does he have that the current referendum power does not work at the provincial and local level? I am also curious whether this could mean that already made appointments of mayors and/or persons could become the subject of a referendum in the view of the petitioner and how the petitioner looks at that further. Because sometimes municipalities also have to make decisions that are not popular. The "not in my backyard" principle also applies in the area of spatial planning to provinces, is often involved and may hinder necessary developments. Would you also like to make these decisions subject to a referendum, local or provincial, or would you like to limit it to regulations at municipal or provincial level? Mr President, at this hour these are the points of attention and the questions that the Christian Union has for the author. I look forward to the answers he will give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u100	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u101	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the referendum began decades ago when the Biesheuvel Committee made a proposal in 1985. Since then, numerous proposals have been made in this Chamber, but the government has not responded. There's a bill ready for a binding referendum. Although the bill is ready, there are also many questions, also critical questions. DENK also has a number of questions today. The bill emphasizes the benefits. The potential drawbacks don't really come to light. It's all very well written down, but what about in practice? That is the key question. The Council of State also referred to the limited explanation given by the initiator. Little was done with that. As DENK, we are concerned about the position of minorities. The binding referendum will have a yes or no outcome. This determines the majority, but then what happens to the minority's vote? Isn't consensus more convenient through consultation than a majority saying yes or no? How do we protect minorities from further exclusion? How do we protect minorities from the dictation of the majority? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There has also been indignation about the deviations from the opinion of the State Committee by the initiator. For example, the referendum may also be launched at provincial and local level. Has it been investigated whether the provincial and local authorities would like to do so? Has there been any backspoke to that? This goes beyond the scope indicated by the committee. The initiator states that this will complement representative democracy. However, the reasons for this remain unclear. In addition, striking choices have been made for the so-called negative exemption lists. The referendum must not be used in relation to tax laws, budgetary matters and the royal family. The initiator refers here to the committee's opinion, but does not explicitly explain the choices made. Why is the citizen limited in influencing taxes, which they themselves contribute to? Why does the government want to keep the citizen out of its financial affairs? And why is the royal house excluded, but not the mixed EU treaties? While the SP was not really in favour of the royal family for years, no referendum should be held on this issue. Those are all questions that come up. I would like to ask the initiator to clarify and adequately motivate his choices. Mr. Chairman. The threshold for entry, which determines the validity of the referendum, also poses risks. There is a possibility that a minority of voters will decide when the turnout is strategically deployed. In addition, the combination of a referendum with elections can undoubtedly influence the turnout. These are risks that the government must guard against and prevent prematurely. I'd like to ask the Minister to elaborate on this. Finally, Mr President. Especially now it is important to respond to our society. In recent times, confidence in politics has fallen considerably. The measures surrounding the coronavirus were controversial. The human measure was filled in by figures and statistics. The anticorona groups are fighting the government and by now there are about 2.9 million coronablockers. The first version of the so-called Corona Warfare Act shot the citizen in the wrong throat. From constitutional restrictions to privacy violations: the government has turned it into a game, with prime minister Hugo de Jonge and Prime Minister Rutte as key players. This has led many citizens to approach a great many Members of Parliament now and would like to raise their voices and decide with them. It also ensures that there is a sense in society of 'we cannot determine, we have no grip'. And a referendum is one of the tools you can use to restore that grip. That is why, in our opinion, there are a lot of questions. As soon as these questions have been properly answered, we shall return to our point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u102	Thank you, Mr Öztürk. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u103	Mr. Chairman. We are here in the House of Representatives in an area called "the heart of democracy." Unfortunately, however, we have to note that this democracy is no longer working properly. If this is the heart of democracy, there is serious heart failure. Because if the Netherlands were a true democracy, a real democracy, the people in the Netherlands would eventually have the last word. Then the rulers should be brought to order if they sin on plans and decisions that are contrary to the wishes that live in the country. Then we could have stopped something like the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, or the Climate Act or the now planned Emergency Act. Unfortunately, that's not how it works with us. In the Netherlands it works a bit like this. Every four years there are elections to the House of Representatives. Most candidates don't even know the population. Each party has only one candidate, or perhaps one or two more, in the news. Sitting parties have the strongest position in the news and in relation to the media. That is because, of course, they finance the media themselves; that is the media cartel, which we are dealing with in the Netherlands. Newcomers find that particularly difficult, as with any cartel, and after the elections all the parties sit together. Newcomers come in even harder, because you have to come up to more than 75 out of 150 seats, so more than half. And if you really want something different from the established parties, who in principle all want the same thing, you have to find the real differences between VVD, CDA, PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks with a magnifying glass; they all find the same thing excluded. If you really want something else, you're gonna be locked out. Such a club of 75 plus 1 is called a coalition, which then decides what they are going to do over the next four years and who gets what job. And as more parties participate in the coalition, the agreements will be more precisely boarded up. A majority of the House of Representatives then, for four years, is in fact in agreement with all the decisions already announced in advance, despite what the participating parties had promised in their election programmes and pinned-down campaign logos. Funny examples are, of course, the VVD and CDA campaign promises about immigration and so on, which never ends up. In fact, during such a period of government things are regularly pushed through that were not included in any electoral programme. That's a very nice one, too. Take, for example, the controversial proposal on the emergency law now before us, or the previous legislation on towing, nitrogen measures, the Marrakesh migration pact and so on. The population has not been able to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u104	I wonder what Mr Baudet had in his electoral programme of 2016/2017 about the corona crisis, when he was so angry that things suddenly happened during a period of government that had nothing to do with election programmes. Did he have that glass ball on him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u105	That's not my argument. I do not argue that new things can never happen. I merely argue that those new things to which we have to respond could of course never have been sent by elections. So it is extremely important that there is an emergency brake in the form of a corrective referendum that we are talking about today, so that the people can say: hey, hey, ho, ho, ho, you are our representatives, but here you are going the wrong way as representatives, so we are collecting signatures and organising a referendum so that we can say no. That is exactly what I am saying. Of course, it is inevitable that I understand that sometimes things happen. Sometimes it's different, of course. Sometimes the government will deliberately avoid certain themes in the run-up to a re-election or certain parties avoid certain themes in the run-up to an election and then, in coalition negotiations, they play that as a trump card against each other. That's what happens, of course. It cannot be ruled out that new things are happening, but then give the people an emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u106	Mr Baudet's plea for the referendum is quite logical. His party originated from the movement in order to be able to be a hand brake on a particular subject through the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u107	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u108	But I'm going back to a crisis situation like this. Let's say... Or "what if"; it doesn't have to, because we have the corona crisis. The cabinet must intervene very quickly to ensure, for example, that older people are not subjected to mass contamination, which could lead to their death. We must act very quickly in the form of a law. We find that pleasurable, because then we can find some of it. But the point that Mr Baudet is making here is: that is typically one of those laws that should be referendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u109	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u110	If voters wanted to vote away a law born of need in the middle of a crisis by means of a referendum, for example at the expense of a vulnerable population group, is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u111	I do not share the view that it should be at the expense of a particular population. That's a little rhetorical impression. If there were a majority here in favour of such an emergency law, in which, in my view, as far as I can see now, there are the most radical, absurd, non-rational, misguided proposals, I think that the Dutch people should be able to say: boys, we do not want to do this at all, so collect signatures, referendums and say no to this. That's absolutely what I want, sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u112	Still building on this: isn't the essence of an emergency law urgent? The moment you're going to hold a referendum, you have to organize it first. That doesn't make any sense at all. Then you're actually saying that you couldn't adopt emergency laws, because it all has to be submitted to the people first. That actually means that you cannot take crisis measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u113	Not every emergency law, of course, leads to the collection of signatures and an organisation among the population in order to reach a referendum. But indeed, if it is so that the population in large numbers... So if a very large group of people in a short time collects those signatures and says "boys, we don't want that," then of course you should be able to reverse that. That's quite the idea of the referendum. That is also the idea of a democracy. I also think these interventions are good here, because they bring to light what is the true nature here. I call that the arrogance of power. It is an idea: we decide for a while; we say that there is urgency and that something is necessary, because of a crisis and I know what it is. But the people may think otherwise. That is the principle of democracy, dear friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u114	Members of the staff, Chairman. That is, in essence, the discussion that is taking place on this issue. Because let's take the corona crisis, which unfortunately we are still in, as an example. There are very difficult considerations being made, which, for example, deny the majority of the Dutch who are not infected a number of freedoms, for several reasons. One is that we have a relatively small, older, very vulnerable group that we want to protect from the potentially dangerous behaviour of the majority, of course unintentionally. I agree with Mr Krol, who once served 50PLUS in this Chamber and stood up for the elderly. That's a vulnerable, small group, a minority. The essence of a parliamentary and representative democracy is that these interests can be weighed against each other in this house. Here we have a large majority of people who have to turn in something of their freedom, and there we have a small group that needs to be protected. The CDA's argument is that that consideration has to be made here, representative, and then a majority has to turn in for the minority. The point that Mr Baudet makes is: no, if that majority does not want to surrender any of its freedom, then the agreement is that a small, vulnerable minority can pay for it. That is essentially the risk you are prepared to take with a referendum. Do you agree with that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u115	Once again, I do not recognize the rhetorical trickbox that precedes the question. It is not a small, vulnerable minority that is totally neglected by the majority, as it were, and so on. I would also like to comment on the main question, but I would like to refer to the preamble to what Mr Van der Molen said. I absolutely disagree with that. The point is that we are all wondering what wise policy is. I think it is absolutely not true what Mr. Van der Molen says, that we would be recklessly engaged if we were society... You always have to weigh interests against each other. There is incredibly much suffering and incredibly much damage to a very large group of people through all those absurd corona measures, those Rutte rules, which do not explain De Jonge's rules about mouth caps, planes and supermarkets. You may go in there, but you can't have people at your house. You can go to restaurants. You're welcome to be on airplanes. You can have Black Lives Matter demonstrations. You can throw wedding parties, like Grapperhaus did, while he sends dogs to people who throw themselves a party in the open air... I really find it scandalous what the government is doing. That's inexplicable. In the whole rhetoric about that it's all vulnerable, I don't recognize myself at all, but I agree with the main point. If you ask the question of who should ultimately make the balancing of interests in this country, I would prefer to choose for all the people in the Netherlands, that everyone can talk to, than the 75 plus 1 that actually make up the service here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u116	We are both in the Chamber for the same length of time, but the Baudet from the beginning of the parliamentary period has simply disappeared. The first point Mr Baudet made in the Chamber was that we are only talking about small things in this house, and that we should talk about great things of principle. I am trying to discuss with Mr Baudet the difference between representative democracy and the referendum. And behind that there is a great deal of consideration whether decisions should be taken by the majority or whether we should also protect a minority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u117	I'm willing to protect the minority. That's not the point, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u118	No, Mr. Baudet. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u119	This is a fundamental discussion which I would like to have with you. After three and a half years, I am in the middle of a discussion of principle and Mr Baudet is just bringing in practical things. Looks like those roles are reversed. A question of principle: if there is a trade-off in this house at the expense of the majority and in favour of a vulnerable minority, do you think that the majority may turn to the detriment of the minority? That is the essential consequence of a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u120	The question is: what minority? Every democratic principle is: a majority decides. In this case, here, it's 75 people plus 1. That's the majority here. It weighs those interests. He says: we want to do this and we want to do it. In the case of this cabinet and the example of corona that it was about, that majority says: we do not think the interests of all those millions of people in the Netherlands who are suffering enormously from the corona measures are so relevant; we want to restrict the freedoms, because we believe in some delusion about a super-dangerous virus, which has long since been wiped out by science. That's an idea. That's an opinion of the 75 plus 1. And I'm saying, expand that circle a little bit. Give people in the Netherlands all the chance to talk when there is a large group of people who say "hey, hey, this is a wrong balance of interests." Give these people the chance to say: we are going to collect signatures and we are going to go against it. That's my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u122	So I gave it to Mr Van der Molen, and that is also in line with the interruption by Mr Van der Molen, who is constantly seeing that in the measures that are being taken or proposed the majority as it exists in the Netherlands is being over-voted. Measures that cannot count on any majority, which are not supported by the Dutch population, are still implemented year in, year out. Take all these climate measures. Take all that immigration. Take Mark Rutte's $750 billion donation to Southern Europe, beginning this summer. So here in the Chamber you can see that coalition and opposition parties are making things a bit difficult for each other, so that it seems as if there is a debate and things are actually being decided in the Chamber on the basis of that. But none of that is true. Only after the next election will you have any chance of any influence, if you succeed in becoming part of the coalition. The opposition is just out of play. It's the 75 plus 1 that decides, and the 74... He pushes everything through. That's how it goes here. That turns out again, because even D66, the party that was set up to introduce the referendum, abolished this cabinet period as a thief in the night. It is the only thing that Kajsa Ollongren achieved as a minister and she watched the D66 Chamber Party give the decisive vote. And now they're pretending to want to re-introduce the referendum, but make no mistake: in the end, I expect them to vote against it. Their argument: the population is not well informed enough to speak out on international treaties. The party that is convinced that the Netherlands should be included in a European superstate believes that issues that have become international should not be covered by referendums. Thanks to politicians from parties like D66, international law is increasingly applicable. The endless and massive immigration, which continues, is imposed on us by international conventions, such as the Refugee Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights and so on. The pointless and expensive climate policy is now being strengthened through the European Union's Green Deal. That is beyond the scope of the referendum. We in the Netherlands, if we make other choices, are simply flogged back by the European Court of Human Rights. It is a right to life. These are just a few examples of how virtually nothing can be decided at national level. That will be much worse if it is up to D66, because D66 is so afraid of the voice of the people that this party now wants to include EU membership in the Constitution, so that the Dutch have nothing to say about it. Would D66, dare I ask, also have been against the referendum if the Ollon border and Kaags were confident that a majority of the Dutch would support their agenda of comprehensive globalisation? Or is their opposition to the referendum motivated by opportunism, as perhaps 40, 50 years ago, was also motivated by opportunism that they were in favour of it? Are they only in favour of democracy if it seems that the people agree with them? The political scientist Peter Mair discovered that in the Netherlands coalition formation has one unique element, which exists nowhere else in the world, a truly unique Dutch element of the succession of governments. After every election in the Netherlands in recent decades, there has always been a new government in which at least one party participated, which has been a majority before. So there was always continuity of a party: either the VVD continued to rule, or the PvdA continued to rule. And that indicates how much the same club parties, in fact only four to five parties, have divided the power among themselves, the jobs. The long march through the institutions: always the same clubs. That system, which I call "Party Cartel," is so vastly out of date. It doesn't fit in with this time of year. And the electorate - and that is the key point - should not have to wait four years, which should be able to intervene in good time. Everything has gotten faster in recent years; why is our democracy still going in the snail's way of 1848? And the tried-and-tested instrument to speed that up, to increase that participation and to be able to intervene in time, is the referendum. It is an excellent tool in civilised, well-functioning democracies to ensure that the gap between citizens and politics is not too great. From Switzerland to California, it works very well. Political parties, like any organization, tend to pursue their own interests rather than the general interest. This was already recognised in the Netherlands when universal suffrage was introduced here. As early as 1917, Prime Minister Cort van der Linden predicted that the emergence of political parties would undermine the functioning of democracy. According to him, party politics forced party interests to prevail over national interests. Cort van der Linden therefore wanted to accept universal suffrage only if a way was found to reduce the role of party politics. And there was, of course, that means: the referendum; a correction to established politics, to ensure that the will of the people would continue to be clear and clear. So over a century ago, this liberal foreman proposed a referendum. Where parliamentary elections go on hundreds of themes at once and election promises can then be crossed out against each other in the backrooms, where, by the way, these elections are largely about the popularity of that one man or woman who happens to be the number one on that one list or that one party, which you might like or dislike, and which is therefore also very susceptible to slander campaigns, it should be necessary to give the people the chance to judge regularly on one specific point of view. The 1917 Constitutional Commission did not want it any more than many members of the party cartel today. She wanted to continue to decide on behalf of their submissive supporters. For a century, that's how the party cartel secures its own position. Fortunately, however, we are not alone in our concerns about the political system and about the non-functioning of our democracy. Two years Remkes worked on an opinion, which was presented at the end of 2018. And the content doesn't lie: "The substantive representation falls short," it sounds right. And: "Social reality shows that parliamentary democracy is not working properly." That's right. The report then made a strong appeal to take seriously the dangers that could threaten our democratic rule of law, and to give the referendum a broad mandate. The opposite happened. Two months after the Constitutional Commission was set up, a new Minister of the Interior, Ms Ollongren, joined. Instead of addressing the threats to our democracy, the Minister, sitting there, proved that she herself might be the greatest threat to our democracy. Because the referendum was immediately destroyed by her. This had to be done so quickly that the opinions of the State Committee could not even be awaited. The established procedures were violated, the opinion of the Council of State was in the wind. It was shameless. And soon it became clear why this happened. Why did this cabinet have such a blight to withdraw the referendum? Because there were large amounts of legislation in the pipeline that could not possibly count on a majority of the population. This cabinet wanted to go against the will of the people, had created a trade-out in shady backrooms to make plans that could never count on a majority and which could never have been supported by the people in a referendum. Think of abolishing the dividend tax, the adoption of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, already mentioned, the Climate Act and the adoption of the controversial trade agreement with Canada, CETA. All subjects that Dutch people don't want to do. During the current cabinet period, a nitrogen crisis was also created, an accounting problem that has nothing to do with actual environmental problems. In addition, no voter has been able to speak out on it in the last Lower House elections. The government, D66, seizes the opportunity to push through unpopular legislation to achieve a dreamed halving of the peasantry. Until 2030, we will be obliged to implement completely pointless nitrogen policy. In the last example, it was also about the emergency law. De Jonge, together with the cabinet, now wants to take advantage of the opportunity to bring about far-reaching legislation that severely restricts the freedom of Dutch people. Fundamental rights, other freedoms: it can all be done in this "created emergency time." And the people can't pronounce on it. In the few referendums we have had in the meantime, the people have always said convincingly no to government policy. First of all, in 2005, against the European Constitution, which was later introduced under another name. Against the association agreement with Ukraine, which was pushed through with a non-binding insert. Against the drag law, which was introduced with a meaningless change. Over and over again, the voice of the people was ignored. Never before has a democratic country abolished the referendum. With the abolition of the referendum, therefore, Minister Ollongren has actually made history. Only the Communist GDR preceded us. Congratulations, therefore, to Mr Van Raak, who has taken the lead in presenting the proposal we are discussing today. The binding referendum is really the only democratic instrument that can effectively counter the arrogance of power and that can crack the cartel. It is the only way to tackle the structural problem of representative democracy. For only if the population can enforce referenda through self-claimed statements of support can the opinion and policy agreements of the party cartel be broken open. Politics is forced to be closer to the people. The people will be able to translate their discontent into concrete policy proposals. In the words of former American President Theodore Roosevelt, recalled earlier: I believe in referenda, not to abolish the representative system, but precisely to correct it when it is no longer representative. But let us also address the arguments of opponents. The opponents of the referendum usually give roughly three arguments to support their position. First, it's said that people don't know what they're talking about. The people would usually not be sufficiently informed and vote on the basis of short-term effect, self-interest and resentment. Referenda would therefore lead to unwise outcomes. Secondly, the referendum would unduly delay decision-making. It all takes forever. Next thing you know, you're constantly waiting for another referendum. In short, it would not be efficient. And third, it would cost too much money. In other words, the referendum would be unnecessary waste. These arguments are constantly returning, in ever-changing forms. For example, we have often seen them come by in the debates around the referendums held in the Netherlands, but also around Brexit. I don't think they're cutting wood. The first argument, the expertise argument, is the most important. As has already been mentioned, this means that the population is often not well informed enough to comment on complex issues on which politics has to decide. Balances of interest, majority or minority issues: that's what we all heard from Mr. Van der Molen and other people. That's a typical argument. But if we think this through consistently, it is not well informed that ultimately an argument against democracy at all, not specifically against the referendum. If it did not read a treaty or a law, then it would not be possible to vote on it, nor would it be possible to expect an opinion on it, hardly anyone would be able to vote responsibly in general elections. After all, what's the difference? The only difference is that there are a few more subjects on the agenda at the same time. So if people in the eyes of VVD or CDA would be too stupid or too uninformed to give their opinion on big issues, why do we have general voting rights? Why should people be able to judge countless electoral programmes, over dozens of pages of proposals, but not over one clear statement in a referendum? How would a regular election be simpler than a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u123	I would like to return to Mr Baudet's comment that VVD and CDA would have said that the citizens are too stupid. I have just mentioned four arguments. By the way, there wasn't one of the three you mentioned. I did not say in any way in my speech that citizens are too stupid. I would therefore like to know the origin of this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u124	If I remember your contribution correctly, you said, among other things, that a referendum is about a simple yes or no, whereas the complexity of politics is such that we can work with nuances, and if you, like the advocates of a Brexit, say yes or no, then you can just come out cheating and so on. That is the expertise argument: you here in politics are so skilled to weigh things down and citizens can only give a simple yes or no. But what we are doing here is ultimately giving a yes or no. That is what we do when we vote. In the end, therefore, it is a question of who is competent to vote. Is that the 75 plus 1 that make up the service here, plus the 74 of the opposition that make up for bacon and beans? Or are all the people in the Netherlands allowed to talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u125	In any case, I don't remember using such a condescending tone that I see you using now when you talk about the voters. I didn't use that tone. That's not in my nature at all. I just said that because you have to choose between A or B, complex questions are reduced to a yes or no vote. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u126	Good. Then you have made this point clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u127	That's always the case. What lies behind that is the argument that we would be better able here in the Lower House, or so, because of that complexity... You always have to say yes or no, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u129	You always have to say yes or no. Here, too. We'll vote for or against something. It's always like that in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u130	You want to explain it again, Mr. Van Gent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u131	Of course I'd like to try. For example, we can amend things. We can file motions. We can also adjust matters in the debate with the Minister. In that respect, that process is more complex than just asking a yes or no question. You simply cannot have amendments in a referendum...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u132	If this was not an opportunity argument, it would be an argument for the abolition of the First Chamber, because no amendments can be tabled in the First Chamber. What is happening here is just the same as what we just saw in the Christian Union, which then says: there must be some sort of threshold, so there must be a lot of people against it, so to speak 130% of the population. Or D66: anything that is international is not allowed. They do not dare to oppose the referendum and then come up with some sort of argument against the referendum. I don't think all these areas of expertise are working. And it goes even further, because often here too, there is no distinction between the technical aspects of a legislative proposal or any other proposal, for example Brexit "How exactly do you get out of the EU? It's just what you really want: in the EU or not. So you can make a target and middle distinction. In other words, how you want to achieve something is sometimes complex, but what you want to achieve is not necessarily at all. If I wanted to go on vacation with a few friends to Mallorca, no one would come up with the idea of going through a referendum, by means of a vote by those friends among themselves, to determine the amount of kerosene that we rent from the plane, which should be in the tank of the plane or what exactly the escape route should be. It is therefore not a question of technical specifications. But we can vote with each other on whether we want to go to Mallorca or somewhere else. That's a target question. That's the way it is with referenda. Would you like more immigration? Then maybe the people will say no. Would you like to spend 1,000 billion for 0.00007°C less warming in the year so much? Then the population will probably say no. Well, how you work that out legally, then we can attract experts. None of that is the art. In addition, numerous studies show that people are going to go into great depth when there is a public debate about it or when there is a referendum about it. The quality of the debate is increasing, because views are argued, attacked, redrafted and reconsidered from all sides, so exactly what Mr. Van Gent praises so much and what he apparently appreciates so much in the debate in the House of Representatives, which I myself have not noticed so much about in my time. But that does exist in society; there people listen to each other and they discuss it with each other. That's great and super-valued. We have also seen this at the Ukraine referendum and at Brexit. That was so beautiful. Besides, there's actually something at stake. The outcome of a referendum is unmistakable, unlike the debates here, the outcome of which has always been established, because the decision has actually already been taken. So it's the tool to get to the people's levy. It automatically leads to a valuable social debate on content. In his international bestseller The Wisdom of Crowds, the American journalist James Surowiecki gives numerous examples of what is interesting: the many are smarter than the few. Asked to estimate the weight of a cow in a market, it turns out that the average of all those different estimates of people on that market is closer to the true number of kilos of that cow than that of a small group of relative experts who estimate that. So a large group of relative laymen actually gets closer to the truth than a small group of experts. There is an interesting analogy between our plea for democracy and the plea of the cartel for in fact technocracy and the free market economy versus the planned economy. In the 1960s, many people, including the West, believed that the communist planned economy would be much more efficient than the chaotic free market. Centrally from one point controlling how many loaves, tractors and shirts had to be produced would logically be much better suited to the question than when everyone decided for themselves what to produce, how to put it on the market and at what price it should be offered. Many intellectuals and politicians in the West were truly convinced that the Soviet world would soon overwhelm the capitalist world because of the success of that centrally organized policy, that elitism, that technocracy. But that was not the case. Again, the many turned out to be far more intelligent than the few. Indeed, the amount of knowledge about market preferences that a central body can collect can never compete with the knowledge that all those individual consumers and producers share with fall and rise, and that they express in their everyday decisions. However, as the joint decisions of millions of consumers in almost all cases lead to the best economic results, the regular involvement of the total expertise that exists throughout society would also lead to better political decisions. Almost everyone knows the temptation to put away another person he doesn't agree with as someone who doesn't know what he's talking about. If we want to be right in a discussion, it is sometimes attractive to draw on our own expertise and, above all, to emphasise the lack of such expertise among opponents. It is a temptation for which the supporters of the association agreement with Ukraine and the supporters of British EU membership were also constantly in favour. The opponents of the association agreement would not know what was in that treaty, whereas Alexander Pechtold, of all people, admitted that he had not read it at all. All UK supporters in the EU always say that Brexiteers didn't know what they were voting for and so on. So it's always that arrogance, it's always saying that the other one doesn't know. The underbellyers, the low-educated, all that kind of terms. And they come right out of my nose, because I think that in so many cases the people know much better than the highly educated, because they have learned themselves stupidly. As fellow minister Bosma also said, they have been going through the left-wing indoctrination mill of the academic world for decades. They read NRC Handelsblad and other biased publications. Their frame of mind is stumped by that. They don't see what's actually going on anymore. They do not understand the consequences of their policies and they believe in Excelsheets, powerpoint presentations and other theoretical representations of reality that do not fit in with reality. In short, voters make a different assessment of the risks and possible consequences of a proposed decision. This is also because they often experience the consequences directly, while many people here in the House of Representatives, in the Hague bubble, do not feel those consequences, such as the consequences of the dramatic, terrible, yet generations tormenting immigration policy. And then there's the effectiveness argument. This relates to the time taken by referenda, which I recalled just now, and the extent to which they then delay the political decision-making process. For example, it could be feared that effective governance would become impossible. This argument starts from a rather questionable assumption, namely that the parliamentary system would be decisive without referenda. Is that right? The chess game between cabinet, civil service, parliament, Council of State, Senate and so on often lasts for years. A referendum also takes time, of course, but can in principle be achieved within a period of six months, after which a clear decision can be made. In this sense, the referendum is more of a speeding and clarifying instrument than a delaying one. In doing so, the referendum would also fall prey to a self-regulatory mechanism. After all, only if there is support will sufficient declarations of support be collected. People's willingness to sign new referendum initiatives will decrease if these referendums were to take far too long and be extremely inefficient. In short, the argument of effectiveness is not convincing in any way. Nor does the cost argument, because the costs do not correspond to the total cost of the state budget. In contrast to these few valid counter-arguments, there are a number of preliminary arguments that I would also like to remind you of. First of all, the compromise argument, the most important one. As has already been mentioned, national elections are always about a mix of many different topics: housing market, mortgage interest relief, the congestion problem, easing of dismissal law, immigration, tax burden, climate concerns, education, defence, the euro. Inevitably, the voter's choice is a trade-off, a compromise, a weighting of different desiderata. This choice is also largely determined by the person in charge of the party, where as a voter you have little control over who else ends up in parliament. The politicians who end up in parliament will then have to make another compromise in the form of a government coalition. In this way, it can easily be done that, despite the wishes of the electorate and even the promises made by the electorate, certain themes are not translated into policy. Referenda saves the subjects that are being crushed in the parliamentary compromise machine. Discussing such a subject separately and promoting a separate vote, regardless of political change and The Hague's forces, can help to overcome the democratic deficit inherent in the parliamentary coalition system. Then the man-ball argument. That is that the referendum allows the electorate to make a choice on a subject, not on a person. This is a fundamental difference from ordinary elections, where you vote for representatives of the people, usually just one. So you vote for a human. This person is given a personal mandate, which in principle is not bound by a specific position or by specific themes or electoral promises. In short, the referendum forces issue politics instead of personal politics. You're also getting a whole different kind of campaign. It is not about the messenger, it is not about the one who delivers the message, as is the case with ordinary elections. You'll vote for the person who pulled the list. If he or she makes a big mistake or something in the news two days before the elections, then that party falls in the polls, while referenda are ultimately just a point of view, on one specific point. Do we want this or not, no matter who the proponents are? It was also funny that NRC Handelsblad, one of the parties campaigning for the Association Treaty and against the referendum, attempted to kill character just before the referendum on a number of initiators of the referendum. So that's actually a category error. It is interesting, however, that the "sharp stone for the mind," the newspaper for the highly educated Netherlands, did not understand exactly what the referendum was about. It wasn't about the initiators at all. It was about the subject. Then there's the cartel argument. Existing political parties may differ fundamentally from the population in some respects. There may be specific issues on which politicians, for whatever reason, prefer not to speak. For example, immigration. That is what the elite want to push through in the Netherlands and the population doesn't want it. So what do they do? Or they make all kinds of false election promises, like the VVD always does. Or they don't talk about it. So politics may have been sung away from the people at some points. Whether existing parties may have an interest in maintaining a particular situation. They may be afraid to pick up a particular problem or have a blind spot for something. It can also be in good faith once again; that is also theoretically possible. There are plenty of explanations. In my view, there is such a gap in the European Union and open borders in all Western countries on this point, as well as in the area of climate. But if that were the case, there is only one way to prove it, namely by means of a security valve. This is therefore the cartel argument, in which opinions can be reached. Then there's the feedback argument. That's linked to this. As you don't have to be a carpenter to find that the roof is leaking, you don't have to be a political expert to see certain problems that politicians may overlook. So that's the feedback argument. It may just be that what is happening here is all in good faith, but that people say: oh, stupid, we haven't seen that; good that the people are pulling our jacket. Then there's the co-ownership argument. In countless situations we see that when people feel co-owners of something, they are inclined to take more responsibility and therefore feel more involved in decisions taken, even if those decisions ultimately turn out to be contrary to their will. Well, at least they've been able to make up their minds. Whether it's about organizations or planning a trip or maintaining a building, for example with associations of owners, everywhere we see that if people have co-ownership, co-ownership, they're also going to do more to make it work. In the Netherlands, for many years, we have seen a large removal between the population on the one hand and politics on the other. The suspicions are rising. Sometimes people don't want anything to do with it anymore. You can also see in general terms that the feeling of being partakers of Dutch society, the Dutch nation, as a people, as a community weakens and that with that the "we," the collective whole that we want to be here in the Netherlands, becomes weaker. The great thing about the referendum is that it represents a collective whole, a 'we', to the national state. The people, the nation, decide and groupe, as a whole, whether we all want something or not. We're giving co-ownership to the population. Isn't that beautiful? Finally, the moral argument. This is based on the idea that the individual has inalienable rights as an expression of his individuality and his free will. The most important right is therefore personal autonomy, the right to self-determination and freedom. That is why prison is indeed a punishment. By far most people want to be free to go and stand wherever they want. A follow-up step can be derived from this. Political participation or political participation is the logical consequence of natural law on individual autonomy. Things that determine the lives of individuals, such as taxation, immigration and foreign policy, should therefore not really be taken outside his consent. That's the moral argument. All right, so today we are discussing Mr Van Raak's own-initiative proposal for a referendum. The proposal contains good points, but also improvements. I am critical of the proposal and I will briefly comment on it. The first positive thing we should do is to start with the proposal that it is a binding referendum rather than just a consultative referendum. It goes against any democratic logic that the people could first vote in a referendum and then be ignored by their own representatives. So I appoint someone to represent me. Then I say in a referendum: ho, ho, this is not the intention; you do not represent me well. Then the representative says to me: yes, I'm sorry, I'll decide. Referenda must be binding, otherwise they are not referendums. A shortcoming to the proposal we are discussing today is that it is only intended to allow a corrective referendum. That is to say, it is intended to stop a law made by politics. So the people can only respond to the people's representatives, but they do not get the initiative themselves. This makes the population dependent on the party cartel, which can avoid certain issues. As long as no new law is produced, the population will not be able to do anything. Since the role of the referendum is right to cover those blind spots in the elected parliament and to make representative democracy representative again when it is not, the corrective referendum is not really enough. You need to expand it with an initiating referendum. You must give citizens the opportunity to launch a legislative proposal themselves, to collect signatures for it and to put it to the vote. It is said that citizens sometimes want to propose something that is not technically feasible for any reason. If that were to happen, the ball would again be in the Lower House, to give as much shape as possible to those perhaps for technical or legal reasons unfeasible popular will. What can also happen in Switzerland is that the government can make a counter-proposal. So you get a referendum on the plan that emerged from the population or a counter-proposal from the government, saying: okay, we get the wish, but we adjust it a little bit, do you want this? Or people can vote against both. So the population gets the chance to vote for one or the other. They can also say: if they both make it, I prefer one or the other. Or: I'm against one and the other, or: I'm against both. That exists in Switzerland and it works very well. In this way you can really have a permanent dialogue with the people. According to Article 82 of the Constitution, the right of initiative is, of course, exclusive to government and State-General; the House of Representatives. Good. Then you will have to change the phrase as it stands. Behind "Proposals of Law can be submitted by or because of the King and by the Second Chamber of States General," you could insert a comma and then: "as well as through an initiating referendum." In most cases, a People's Initiative is not, of course, a concrete legislative proposal. Few people will take the trouble to draw that up. It will be more of a general idea, for example: the Netherlands must step out of the euro. These cases would not even require a constitutional change. It can even be done within the current context, I think. It can be worked out in the new referendum law. I would be delighted if Mr Van Raak could respond to that in his term. Then there is the issue of optional; I would also like to say something about this. In the current proposal it is only optional. This means that citizens can choose for themselves subjects that they want to put to a referendum, but that there is no subject where it is mandatory to hold a referendum on them. I think this is worth considering, for two very specific types of laws. So not for all proposals, but for two specific types of laws. Citizens should not therefore first have to collect a certain number of signatures, but the government should be obliged to hold a referendum. The first category concerns laws which involve the transfer of sovereignty. Since the transfer of sovereignty affects the functioning of the parliament itself and excludes the control of the people on that subject from that moment on, it is something the House of Representatives should not in fact be allowed to decide. Parliamentarians are the representatives of the Dutch people. They can't give away something they don't own. No representative can give away anything he or she doesn't own. The House of Representatives does not have sovereignty, but has it in custody of the Dutch people and cannot give away anything without consultation of the people. The second category of laws, which I believe should be adopted only by referendum, concerns laws that have been implemented, adapted or reversed by referendum. So if you have had a referendum on, for example, the retention of the mortgage interest deduction and then it will be abolished, then you should not be able to do so, because then the people directly talked about it and the people are the highest power in our society, the highest power in our democracy. If you are opposed to this as a representative, then you have to go back to the people and say: boys, have we understood that this should indeed be abolished under the changed circumstances? Then the people can say "yes, you're right, go ahead," or "no, hoho, we don't want that." I would ask Mr Van Raak to include these points of improvement in my specific points, which I have heard from him before, in his term. Maybe he can suggest a concession. He has, of course, the opportunity to do so himself in the first instance. If that does not happen, I am considering tabling amendments to amend the initiative proposal itself. Mr President, I will conclude. Our democracy is suffering from a serious structural problem. A cartel of large power parties keeps the ranks closed and makes opinions agreements, which lead to political market failures. This is what a cartel does: it leads to market failure, it prevents newcomers from entering properly, it ensures that innovative noises do not penetrate and that existing practices that do not meet the wishes of the consumer, the citizen, can still continue. And that market failure needs to be broken. Topics that are important to voters are snowed under in coalition negotiations. It's been the case for decades. When we talk about major issues... For the European Union there has never been a majority in the Netherlands. There has never been a majority in the Netherlands for the massive and continuous immigration of VVD and CDA. For the climate plans there is no majority in the Netherlands. There is no majority for the major themes, but the party cartel club that creates market failures is pushing it through, by apparently creating so much confusion and so much slander of newcomers and so on that they can continue to form coalitions. They arrive with false contradictions between VVD, CDA, PvdA, but at the end of course it's all the same and they're going to rule together. That needs to be broken. Topics that are important to voters must be able to get directly into politics here. Hot coals that one does not want to get out of the fire must be taken out. In short, the state balance of power must be restored. The formation of the large parties of power has in fact prevented this balance of power from functioning for a century. The representative democracy needs a correction, and that correction can only come from outside. The referendum is the only instrument capable of achieving this correction. It is a necessary complement to the current system. According to electoral studies, but also in practice in other countries, Switzerland, for example,............................................................................................................................................................................................................... Wherever citizens are given more responsibility, they will also have more responsibility. Election turnout rates are significantly higher in referenda states. In the United States, for example, half of the states have a referendum and the other half do not. In the 25 states that do have referendums, turnout rates are significantly higher. There is greater confidence in politics. Involvement and satisfaction are increasing. In fact, there are no examples of extreme, violent or disastrous plans that have been implemented through popular initiatives, while there are many examples in the meantime, I mention the increased economic performance that seems to be linked to the existence of such democratic control mechanisms. There are also numerous examples of disastrous and extreme measures taken by parliaments. In the coming decades, we will face major questions. We will have to take a position in debates on national identity, immigration, European unification, climate and many other issues that directly affect the population. Politics is not in a position to take clear positions in this respect, which are also in line with the wishes of the population. We need to close the gap. We need to introduce the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Graaf has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u134	I would like to congratulate Mr Baudet on his contribution, because I know he is in favour of referenda. He showed it to me tonight. He also wanted to make further proposals. I am very curious to see how Mr Van Raak looks at this. Otherwise, I hear an initiative bill from Mr Baudet coming. But I want to ask him something, because he said that this bill contains good points and less good points. He's made some suggestions. I was wondering if he's made the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u135	Oh, I'm definitely gonna vote in favour. I'm definitely going to vote in favour. I'm 100% for referenda. This referendum is fantastic, very good. An optional corrective referendum, which is also binding. Beautiful. I think it can be extended even further, but something is better than nothing. I will do what I can to make this work, in support of the petitioner, of course, because that is what it is for. But we shall assist him in it wherever we please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u136	I do not think that the applicant could wish for greater support. That's fantastic. It is good that I get that answer, because I was wondering whether Mr Baudet also took note of Article 89d of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u137	I'll get it for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u138	Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. That is precisely the provision that regulates the need for a threshold of outcome. I have just had an interrupting debate with Mr Baudet. I was wondering if he had an eye for that. I did not hear him say it in his contribution, not mention it in the less good points of this bill, not mention it in the proposals on which he would like to amend this bill, so I am very curious how he is looking at that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u139	It makes it possible. That's right. You say it's a threshold. It makes that threshold possible, but it doesn't say what it is. But I believe that it is sufficiently clear what my position is. I'm against any kind of entry threshold. I'm against any kind of outcome threshold. I think an election is an election. In the event of an election, the majority shall decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u140	I think your position is very clear, but I do not fully understand what consideration is being made. You support the legislative proposal which includes the possibility of a threshold of outcome. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u141	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u142	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Mr Van der Molen has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u143	Mr. Chairman. After all the praises of almost all the parties to the referendum, I will have to do something about the lack of substantive representation in this Chamber. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Van Raak on having the opportunity to look at this debate today in Box K. I saw on the SP website I have to admit that I don't look at that every day, a column by colleague Van Raak, in which he writes that as a Member of Parliament he was never allowed to participate in an earlier referendum proposal by PvdA, GroenLinks and D66. Well, I wasn't in the Chamber at the time; I don't know what hit the left wing again. But it must feel particularly good that Mr Van Raak of the SP is in box K and can watch PvdA, GroenLinks and D66 debate his proposal. That's what I was gonna call it. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal to introduce a binding consultative referendum. It is almost a copy-paste version of Mr Van Raak's bill, which was agreed by this Chamber at the end of 2017. The CDA Group has indicated in this Chamber over the past decades and on many occasions that it is not in favour of the referendum. That is no different today; I will give that away. It is not a debate among democrats whether voters should influence the direction and organisation of their country. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. The question is, what is the best way to do that? The image created as if the voter in the Netherlands only influences politics once every four years through the red pencil is a caricature. The first MP who is able to keep his or her fingers in the ears for four years, I must also come across. That does not make our democracy perfect. I admit that. I see Mr Van Raak's proposal as a genuine attempt to do something about this imperfection, but for the CDA, the starting point is representative democracy. Representatives, we are sitting here with each other, not to defend the interests of the people, but the general interest. The reasoning behind this is that democracy is not the majority plus one, but that minority interests should also be protected against the pressure of a majority, and that pressure is increasing in a fragmented political landscape and in a society in which dividing lines are increasingly felt. My colleague Mr Van Toorenburg said that in 2013 when a referendum proposal was being discussed, it was as follows: "In a time like this, in the country where we now live, it is particularly important to cherish something like a parliament. It is a time when the contradictions become sharper, the debate polarizes and the compromise, which is sometimes necessary to keep society together, is low valued." However, the Remkes Committee, which came up with opinions on administrative renewal, puts the finger on the sore spot. With all the fine words I have just said, large groups of voters feel that their views are hardly being listened to. This is called in highly educated terms, to borrow something from Mr Baudet, a lack of representation. Personally, that feeling creeps me out here in the Chamber. We all have our images about how the world works and sometimes we cannot understand the others in the idiotic proposals they have about this house or about the country. The previous speaker has shown some of that. The CDA Group sees that this is one of Mr Van Raak's main arguments to enable a corrective referendum, but the referendum is for a better representation such as an emergency brake for train. We're gonna stand still for a second, but we're gonna have to go back on that same train. You can't go too many directions on those tracks. A better representation is achieved in the opinion of the CDA Group by the way members of this house are chosen. You do that by tying them more firmly to the voter. Because that also gives us influence, how we sit here together, on those 99 laws of the 100 on which no referendum is held. Only then can we do something about the representation. The idea behind a referendum is that the electorate may intervene if it feels that the States-General have decided something for which there is no majority. The electorate can do that now, and they are using it more and more, by pointing out to those representatives the door in elections. Through referendums, decisions are finally taken outside the parliament and the responsibility comes to everyone and thus finally to no one. The unfortunately deceased former senator Alfons Dölle in 2012 pointed out that referenda reduce complex subjects to a simple yes or no. That is what we do in this Chamber, with a vote for or against, but not until after we have been able to change a legislative proposal, have been able to reform and convince each other. The risk that Dölle saw was that in that discussion all the smaller and larger interests that have little publicity relevance outside the circle of those involved, which are therefore not seen, would easily get between the wheels in a referendum. Some things can't be reduced to a simple yes or no and people can really get hurt. That requires at least something of how a referendum is organised when I look at the initiative proposal. In the proposal, the initiator does not ask such questions. The CDA Group would like to hear in its first term how it looks at a downside of the referendum and whether there is anything to be done about it. In the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty, for example, 46% of the voters who voted against it subsequently found that the treaty was about Ukraine's accession to the European Union, which was factually incorrect. This means that we must do something about the debate that calls for a referendum. Is such an afterthought inherent in referendums, or should we prevent them, by how we organise a referendum? I put that question to the initiator because he does not go into that point in his proposal. It is also not right to pretend that members of the Lower House only have a mandate from the electorate. Our Constitution is in such a way that, in addition to the electorate's mandate, people's representatives also have a constitutional mandate. Since 1814 the Constitution has made it brief and concise: "The States-General represent the entire Dutch people." In doing so, it is not for a Member of Parliament to take decisions that coincide with what the majority of voters think. According to the Constitution, the consideration of what is good in the shorter or longer term for majorities and minorities is also part of our task. Pretending that a referendum doesn't change anything about that is wrong. The nature of the animal is different from that of weighing, deciding and accountable in elections. How does the initiator, is the question, look at Article 50 of our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u144	The House of Representatives represents the entire Dutch people. That is correct, but that still means that this relationship is one between representative and representative, and that the representative is also a member of the population according to the Constitution. In the end, the population is sovereign. That's the origin of power. The House of Representatives derives this power, which is held by the House of Representatives, from elections, but cannot give away by transfer of sovereignty something that it does not possess, nor can it insist on going against the wishes of the representative of the mandater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u145	By saying that, according to the Constitution, we have a responsibility here not for a particular group but for the entire Dutch people. That is also an expression of the fact that the whole idea behind a referendum, namely that we must have a referendum, because the balance that can be made here cannot be qualified on the basis of a majority in the Dutch people. The Constitution says that this is not necessary. You have to represent everyone: the majority, but also the minority. So the idea that a political decision in this Chamber is by definition incorrect because there is no majority for it in society is more nuanced in our Constitution. I put that as a counter-argument to the initiator. I would very much like to have a reaction to that, because what the Constitution determines about our role is very important. I agree with Mr Baudet that we have a primary electoral mandate here. People are sending us here. And we make mistakes. They can send us away if they don't see us anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u146	I think that's going to happen on March 17th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u147	I think that the statement that the Constitution is so explicit about sovereignty, as Mr Baudet says, is more nuanced. The Dutch Constitution is characterized precisely by not speaking exclusively about sovereignty, but by saying that a whole number of bodies in our democracy must jointly assess what is right and wrong, what becomes law and what is not. On the idea that Mr Baudet has, that our Constitution is so explicit, I think more nuanced. Do we have to do everything we can to justify our decisions here by a majority in society? Sure. Otherwise, I wouldn't believe in elections either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u148	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u149	No further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u150	Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Or weren't you finished? Oh, no. Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u151	No, Mr. Chairman. I also had a little bit of time and I still have one A4.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u152	Fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u153	Let's see if I haven't skipped anything. In any case, Mr Van Raak has succeeded in putting the image of the Council of State's opinion on his proposal into his hands. The first news headlines that the Council of State would also consider the referendum to be a strengthening of parliamentary democracy. That is a rather free interpretation of the Council of State's argument that there are no obstacles to state law, because the Council of State says in the same paragraph: "However, it is a fundamental and fundamental change in the state system which requires a constitutional change. Such a radical change requires a thorough justification, with careful consideration and consideration not only of the benefits of the proposed instrument, but also of any disadvantages. The explanatory statement is inadequate in this respect." So the Council of State actually says, "If you want it, you can do it. You're gonna turn this place upside down. Think before you start." I would like to challenge the initiator, in his first term, to mention three arguments against the referendum, to give his response to it, Mr Baudet already gave an example of this and to take the opportunity to explain again on the basis of which he suspects that the Council of State would be in favour of introducing a binding corrective referendum. In the first response to the Remkes Committee's report, which made recommendations in the area of administrative renewal, the Cabinet indicated that the binding corrective referendum was not readily applicable to representative democracy, as it took shape in the Netherlands in the last century and a half. Since the Minister for the Interior is present as an advisor to the Chamber, I would ask her to deal with this in her first term. Now that we see the aftermath of the brexireferendum at close range, the feeling has arisen in the Netherlands that there are also downsides to a referendum. The initiator seems to be keen to emphasise in his reply that the British referendum on the Brexit is not comparable to his proposal, because that referendum was consultative and not binding in nature. That is politically useful, as we have witnessed for years the violent political replay of the brexirefementum. That wasn't an advertisement for the referendum in itself. But from a practical point of view, there's little difference. Since the initiator chooses to include treaties under the referendum law, the same situation is possible in the Netherlands as in Great Britain. The fuss in Britain was not because of the fact that political parties flew into each other's hair, but because of the choice itself and the small margin between fronts and opponents. There is nothing in the proposal that is before us today that could prevent the same problem in the Netherlands. The CDA Group asks the initiator to deal with this in his first term. I wasn't ready yet, Mr President, but I saw Mr Baudet standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u154	Yeah, me too, but when you're almost done, may you... well, I can see it, I'll go to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you. I do not understand very well what Mr Van der Molen has against the aftermath of the Brexirefendum, except that the political class in the United Kingdom, as the Albion does often, has tried to ignore that result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u156	That's such high-educated language that I was a little out of my league. But what Mr Baudet actually said, in my opinion, is: why should I, as a Dutch Member of Parliament, be so negative about the brexiantum in itself? I think I can translate Mr Baudet's words in this way, because he has used them more often as a counter-argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u157	Mr. Baudet, what exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u158	I thought I just heard Mr Van der Molen say that because of what happened in the United Kingdom after the Brexirefementum, people started to think differently about the referendum in the Netherlands. I therefore believe that this implies that the brexireferendum would have been negative. That's what you mean, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u159	No, the comment I made about the Brexireféendum was directed at Mr Van Raak. Quite early in his proposal, he says: the Council of State has identified a number of possible referenda; well, that proves that my referendum has nothing to do with that lexireférendum. He says that because I think he knows that that wasn't advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u160	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u161	I say, there's nothing in that proposal that would be something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u162	I understand that, but you say, because I think he knows that's not advertising. Why isn't that a commercial? Explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u163	I am pleased that the British have issued a referendum on the Brexit. I can also follow the arguments for being in favour of a Brexit for a very large part. This was certainly inspired by an idea of take back control: we in this country should be able to decide for ourselves what the laws and rules are. I believe that a democratic community can say that. I would have made a different assessment myself. I stand here as a Dutch Member of Parliament and I have the strong impression that the Brexit would not be in the Netherlands' favour, if only because of the economic consequences or because it is really a pity in the balance of power within the European Union that Britain would not be on our side against the further deepening of political cooperation. I'm sorry to hear that. And I stand here to represent the Dutch and not the British.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u164	But you said that the Brexi-Affectedum isn't an advertisement for the referendum. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u165	Yes, and I think a lot of people have seen that bullshit afterwards in Britain can cause incredibly much misery. There is no question of whether I think that people should choose to do so, because I have no problem with that in itself. It's up to you there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u166	Proceed, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u167	Mr. Chairman. I have two very short questions in the last twenty seconds that I see on my bell. I would like to add my voice to the questions that have been asked about the outcome threshold. Why did the author choose not to be explicit in this? Shouldn't a constitution be explicit about when a referendum is valid? The last point is that I have looked up the whole list of proposals, laws and effects of treaties that cannot be held in a referendum. Either you think that the voter has something to say about everything by means of a referendum and that there is nothing too complicated to put to the voter, or you choose this line of argument, but you might lose your own argument. I would very much like to hear a reflection from the author in his first term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u169	We started again today, after the recess, and dealt with two fine legislative proposals by Members of Parliament. One bill was about sign language and this bill was about the corrective referendum. That is a good start to our parliamentary year. I thank the Members of Parliament. In consultation with the initiator, we will see when we can deal with the answers. You want that very quickly, Mr. Van Raak? Well, then that's what we're gonna do. Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister, the support of Mr Van Raak and the Members of Parliament, and I thank the people in the public gallery.
