ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u1	Good afternoon. I open the VAO Internal Evaluation Incident Overview of the Reporting Foreigners' Chain 2018. As the first speaker, Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 29 January we discussed the establishment of the incident report which led to the resignation of Mr Harbers. In the meantime, many new revelations have been added. It's a chaos at the IND, according to articles in NRC. There may be a need to pay EUR 100 million in periodic penalty payments. The Ministry has completely lost its grip. Earlier we heard that the top of the IND wanted to keep unpleasant information under the hat. Information about torture and child pornography was not allowed to come out, because this would only lead to image damage. This may even have allowed terrorists to enter. Imago damage seems to be above national security. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State what she's gonna do to fix this. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that whistleblowers believe there is interference with the IND;]] [[Considering that important information from asylum seekers on torture and child pornography has been removed at the request of the leadership "because IND issues are politically sensitive," which may have led terrorists to an asylum-seekers' centre;]] [[considers image damage to be more important than safety;]] [[calls on the government to conduct an independent investigation into the abuses at the IND,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2586]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As long as the police cannot and cannot register whether a crime is committed by an asylum seeker, status holder or illegal, we will never be able to identify the total extent of the problems with these groups. In this way, it is made very easy for the government to give a rosy picture of all the problems caused by the open border policy of the VVD and the CDA. The police in Amsterdam are not going to prosecute shoplifters anymore to free up capacity. Let those shoplifters, if we can believe the Amsterdam police, be asylum seekers or illegal immigrants just above average. So now we are not registering whether we are dealing with foreigners, but soon there will be no more prosecution for these groups. It's unbelievable. This is unacceptable. It is high time for the Dutch people to understand all the misery that the mass immigration has brought with them. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a comprehensive registration of all crime committed by foreigners in order to clearly identify the seriousness and extent of the consequences of mass immigration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2587]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u4	I would like to ask Mr Emiel van Dijk what exactly is the reason he is tabling this motion. I have been paying close attention during the general consultation, and my party has also asked questions to the Secretary of State about police registration. I think she said that first of all there is a fresh protocol that should work well. But if this is not yet the case in practice and improvements are possible, it will instruct the inspection to see how the alien chain, the migration chain and the registration of criminal offences can be better linked. The inspection will then also come up with a result next year. So she picks it up. Then why this motion, is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u5	Because too little is happening and no vigorous action is being taken. As far as the PVV is concerned, what you are now quoting is far too non-binding. I have here an overview of all the factual questions submitted by the PVV. We simply, perhaps twenty times, get the following answers. "The requested information cannot be generated within the time frame of the response." "The question cannot be answered because these data are not collected." "This question cannot be answered, because we do not collect this data." And so I can go on 20 more times. That's why we need to file this motion. Then we can finally get that information over the table instead of just sitting on our hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u6	Finally, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u7	The VVD also finds that there is no or no such data a problem. That is precisely why we were so pleased with the Secretary of State's undertaking that she will have the JenV Inspection investigate this. That does not leave us, as Mr Van Dijk says, on our hands, but we are working on a solution. So once again, if Mr Van Dijk submits this motion and I have to vote against it later, I hope he will not say in the end that the VVD does not consider all this to be important. No, we listened very carefully to the Secretary of State. She's already getting research done. That's what I wanted to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u8	I am aware that the VVD soon settles for research, future visions and so on, and never engages in action. I do not think that the VVD needs any other reason to vote against our proposals, because it always does. Not words, but deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u9	I call Mr Van den Berge of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u10	Mr. Chairman. The images of refugees, especially of children, on the border between Turkey and Greece and on Lesbos go through marrow and bone. My group believes it is important that we should be able to provide humane shelter for people fleeing the home and the fireplace. That is precisely why support for our asylum system is so important. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. That is why we made a critical contribution to the general consultation on 29 January. We talked about an internal evaluation, which literally stated that no conclusions and recommendations would follow, but from which the Secretary of State drew a strong conclusion that no wrong figures were sent to the Chamber with malice. We had to note that the former Secretary of State, Mr Harbers, had not himself been involved in the internal evaluation. After a long debate and after a long push and pull, the Secretary of State finally promised a full, external, independent evaluation. My group welcomes that. That's why I'm not filing a motion today. However, I have another question for the Secretary of State: what is the status of this external evaluation and when can we expect the results? We very much hope that, with the lessons to be drawn from the external evaluation, we will be able to ensure that information is beyond doubt in the future, so that we can best protect the support for our asylum system, which is so fragile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u11	Thank you. Mrs Van Toorenburg has been noted as a fourth speaker, but is not present, so I think we can move on to the answer given by the Secretary of State, whom I welcome. I'll see if she's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u12	Mr. Chairman. I see there are two motions. I think we can do that. First of all, the Jasper van Dijk motion on item No. 2586. It calls on the government to launch an independent investigation with the Ministry of Justice, in particular with regard to the IND issues, which would be sensitive. I have to say that things may be a little confused. Mr Jasper van Dijk refers to reports about alleged interference in investigations, but the coverage concerned influence at the JenV Inspection and not at the IND. So I'd like to make that right. The Minister for Justice and Security, Grapperhaus, reported to your Chamber in his letter of 12 February last week, and confirmed that in the debate on the inspection reports, he confirmed that the ADR (Audit Service Rijk) will investigate the inspection report on the follow-up of signals from the asylum process. That inspection report dates from before 2018. The methodology that will be used will be similar to that in the investigation for the Repressive Fire Department report, about which your Chamber has been previously informed. That research will consist of investigating and clarifying the complex of facts surrounding this inspection study in order to determine which principles of good understanding may have been at stake here. The question is: when can that be ready? As soon as more is known about the duration of the ADR investigation, your Chamber will be informed. In the light of this, I must advise against Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u13	The Secretary of State is right about what she has just said about what the Minister of Justice is going to do, but that is about the inspection. My motion is about abuses caused by the IND's leadership. We've had a lot of revelations about that recently. And so there was also a revelation that crucial information about torture and child pornography has been put aside. My question is: is the Minister going to investigate these abuses caused by the IND summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u14	The ADR is investigating the inspection report on the follow-up of signals from the asylum process. And that's what this is about. It concerns influence at the JenV Inspection, and not at the IND. That research will be as broad as possible. It's an independent investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u15	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u16	I shall certainly have my motion put to the vote. The investigation the Secretary of State now mentions is about the Justice-wide inspection. My motion is about missteps by the IND summit, so the IND staff couldn't do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u17	Do you still want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u18	No, Chairman. Mr Van Dijk talks about missteps, but the motion says'missteps'. The operative part of the motion is: "calls on the government to conduct an independent investigation into the abuses at the IND." The ADR is investigating the inspection report on the follow-up of signals from the asylum process. I believe that this research will cover what Mr Jasper van Dijk wants to have investigated. For that reason, I shall be voting in favour of the motion in part No. 2586.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u19	Then there's the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u20	The motion in part No. 2587 by Mr Emiel van Dijk is about the registration which he does not think is working properly. The motion calls on the government to introduce a final registration of all crime committed by foreigners in order to clearly identify the seriousness and extent of the consequences of mass immigration. By letter dated 23 January 2020, I informed your Chamber of the incident report. I have written in it that there will be a new set-up of the incident review and I have set out the basic principles. This means that the purpose of the survey is to provide insight into the nuisance and crime caused by asylum seekers. However, information should also take into account the efficient use of the analytical capacity of the chain partners and the comments on the possibility of taking the issue into account in figures. The design of the new incident review will consist of two parts. A part refers to the group of foreigners who stayed in the COA shelter at any time during the reporting year. This group is reported on COA incidents, police records, the handling of the case by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the rulings of the court. The second part is a part relating to the residence consequences of crime by asylum seekers, regardless of whether they were staying in the COA shelter at any time during the reporting year. You will be given this amended incident registration as part 2 or annex to the RVK which will be published in this spring. On that basis, we can possibly see if Mr Emiel van Dijk would miss anything. We expect the RVK, with the modified incident registration, for the Mayreces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u21	May I conclude from the State Secretary's reply that the new Reporting of Foreigners chain is being registered? You say: there is a registration at the moment when there could be consequences for the residence status of foreign nationals. You're about to make that clear in the Foreigner's Chain Reports. Does it mean that you will take those cases with you in the future, contrary to what you answered to our questions of 6 November 2019 about criminal asylum seekers in Amsterdam who are not allowed to be registered by the police? We have asked how many of these asylum seekers are actually expelled after serving their sentence. You indicated at that time that you could not answer that question. Can I conclude from the answer given by the Secretary of State that at the time it does affect the status of foreigners, this can be seen in the overview and that we will soon be able to trace all the cases where the Amsterdam police were dealing with foreigners from the Aliens' Reporting Chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u22	I have just indicated the design of the new incident report, namely those two parts: the part relating to the group of foreigners and a part relating to the consequences of residence law. I have also indicated that when that has appeared and on the basis of this it appears that there is still something missing that Mr Emiel van Dijk would like to see, we can look further. But at the moment this is my answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. Therefore, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u23	The motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u24	Yes. We shall have her put to the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u25	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u26	I now turn to Mr Van den Berge's comments. He did not table a motion but asked me a question: what about the external evaluation? The researcher is expected to need seven to eight months to conduct this research. Of course I'll send the report to your Chamber. What's the question to the investigator? What's the scope? The researcher has been asked to carry out an external evaluation of the development of the 2018 incident review and the way in which the State Secretary and the House of Representatives have been informed about this. What powers does the investigator have? The investigator shall be empowered to formulate additional questions during the evaluation and to examine and answer them if he considers it appropriate in view of his mission. In response to the findings and conclusions, he was free to make recommendations. The investigator shall have access to all relevant documentation.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The researcher also intends to interview interested persons. It has also been agreed with the researcher that the then Secretary of State will also be asked about his views.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u27	That's almost completely clear. I hear the Secretary of State say six to eight months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u28	Seven to eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u29	Seven to eight. Does that mean that we can at least look forward to it this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u30	Yeah, because if I'm going to count, I'm going to come up with something like "what is it?" September, October, in that neighborhood. March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November; even if it is nine months, it is still this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u31	So at least it comes well before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u32	I think it's very likely it's coming before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u33	Good. Then I think we've come to the end of this VAO. I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-27.u34	I forget to mention that the votes on these motions will take place next Tuesday. But you already knew that. We're gonna wait until the next Secretary of State has taken his place in trade-K. Then we can move on to the next topic.
