ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would ask the National Ombudsman to take his place in Box K. I would like to welcome the National Ombudsman, Mr Van Zutphen. I am very grateful that you have been able to offer the annual report on your work for the past year here in the Chamber. As you know, we are in a special situation. Nevertheless, as usual, you are here. Normally the Kinderombudsman, but also the substitute Ombudsman, comes along. They often sat in the President's Lodge. Unfortunately, they are not here because of these special circumstances, in connection with the corona virus, but I would like to thank them very much now and I hope you can pass this on to them. The annual report, which is usually presented to the Chamber by the National Ombudsman at the beginning of April, takes account of the important social function that the Ombudsman performs by standing up for people who are stuck in our society and gives an insight into how public policy in everyday practice comes to citizens. The fact that the House is no longer full as before does not mean that there is less interest on the part of the Chamber in the work done by the National Ombudsman. On the contrary, this report can be very useful for the work of a representative of the people. I now give the floor to the National Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President, thank you for the special opportunity to present the report for 2019 here in your midst today, as you have just outlined. I will gladly pass on to them what you said about colleagues and I am assured of their moral support. They're probably watching through the livestream what we're talking about here and what we're talking about. Special times also call for special attention from the ombudsmen for what is now happening in the Netherlands. I'm gonna drop right in with the title of the report. It's called rule direction! That was chosen even before we got into this crisis. When we look at 2019, we see that many people in the Netherlands, many citizens, ask for direction, to be directed by the government, but also very often ask for government facilities that allow them to lead and conduct their own direction over their own lives. The subject has in no way lost interest, certainly due to the crisis. I would almost say, quite the contrary. I will be able to present the third joint annual report to you shortly by the Children's Ombudsman, the Veteran Ombudsman and the National Ombudsman. It has become a tradition three times in this way. I'm really glad that's happening. Previous reports of our annual reports had titles like Civic Perspective: a way of looking; Of course connecting, that's what it's about; Who doesn't fit, is stuck and last year everyone should be able to participate. That is actually true now, in these special times, all the more so. But now, rule direction! Many citizens, young people, children, veterans, need the government more than ever now, but I would like to underline it, especially later. Now, in this crisis, but when the crisis is over and everyone is getting back on their feet and looking "where did I end up now?" In the very near future, therefore, we certainly expect more citizens to come to the Ombudsman, either to me as a National Ombudsman or to local and municipal ombudsmen as they work in the Netherlands. I think what citizens are going to tell us is not very different from what we heard from citizens last year, around the congress that we organised in October 2019. They expect an honest, understanding and simple government. To be self-reliant, you need the government and direction. That direction needs to be arranged. Young people, students and schoolchildren in our society will in the near future, now that perspective on education is disappearing and will also be difficult to find, but also because students are in financial difficulties because side jobs cannot be carried out, the government and also the Ombudsman need very much. The same applies to carers. Millions of people in the Netherlands help direct people who need it. Their task of being able to stand by their neighbors means that the government must also take the role that is needed there. Refugees and migrants ask for direction to realize the protection and residence that we want to allow them. Single elderly people We know the examples of what is going on, for example in nursing homes, from the newspapers and the media, often ask for modest direction by the government. That's even more difficult for those people. In that sense, they are vulnerable. I do not have to say very much about the small self-employed, thezzp'ers and small and medium-sized enterprises. You know much better than I do that the times can be referred to as dire strategies for people undertaking in the Netherlands. I'm also thinking about the homeless and homeless. In our letter to Prime Minister Rutte at the end of last year, on behalf of all ombudsmen and children's and youth ombudsmen in the Netherlands, we called for attention to be paid to the homeless and homeless. At this time, in which Corona is wandering around in the Netherlands, it is difficult to say "stay home" to homeless people when they have no roof over their head? We also ask the government to direct the homeless and the homeless. We see that there are now opportunities for shelter. Let us try to continue it when the crisis is over. We cannot say to the inhabitants of Saint-Eustatius: wash your hands because you have to live hygienically, if there is no water flowing out of the tap? And telling citizens with disabilities to wait for others to lead is not an alternative either. We must ensure that, in terms of the previous annual report, everyone can participate. We have to make sure that the direction is taken care of. Does the government have to do all that themselves? No, of course not. It is also a question of facilitating the government so that others can take the lead. I visited the website of the RIVM and there is something about elderly people that I summarize as follows: if the direction of one's own life is lost, then self-reliance disappears. It is of the utmost importance that, if we still think self-reliance is important, the direction is provided so that not only the elderly, but everyone who lives in the Netherlands, is a citizen and participates, can find their place, preferably on their own strength and sometimes supported. I would like to go back to the report that the Chamber also knows: the report Knowing is not yet done, of the WRR. Many people who have now been affected by the crisis have found themselves in a situation in which this report applies: debts, poverty, unemployment, illness. There's an attack made on your ability to do it. I hope that this Chamber will pay full attention to this. An honest government. Be honest. Tell me what the government is for and what the government isn't for. Also, say as government national, local, co-governments where others than the government have to work to make sure that there can be direction on one's own life. I am thinking, for example, of the tools in the context of the Wmo and the debacle with the Auxiliaries Centre, which has really been a huge setback for many citizens, to use that ugly English word. An understanding government. The citizen's perspective is highly valued by a government that understands its citizens. Take care of the best decision for the child, says the Children's Ombudsman. Show the special care for the veterans, says the Veterans Act and, in the footsteps of it, the Veteran Ombudsman. I call on you to draw the lessons from the past that are possible when conducting the direction. Let us avoid that, when we ask for accountability about the support requested byzzp'ers and companies, we will find ourselves in a position of accountability where institutional bias, as was the case in the childcare allowance, is re-emerging. We can learn a lot from that, and I hope that will happen. See if the generosity with which citizens have been financially supported in the corona crisis based on public confidence can be an example for the people in Groningen who are still asking for an active role of the government in compensating, understanding and containing their damage. Finally, a few words about the Kingdom. There is no Ombudsman at kingdom level, but there are ombudsmen in the Kingdom. And we work together: the ombudsmen of Curaçao, Saint Martin and the BES Islands. As regards the BES islands, I have already mentioned the example of Saint Eustatius and the lack of water in times of corona, where hygiene is so important. On Saint Martin, the crisis is in crisis. We first had Irma there, now we have the consequences of the corona crisis and let's hope and pray together that there will not be another hurricane within two weeks or after two weeks, when the season starts before the hurricanes, goes over those islands. That would be desolidating, really terrible, and it would perhaps be a definitive end to what Saint-Maarten actually want to make together on their own island. You are undoubtedly aware of the situation, but I would remind you of the poverty and the need for food that many tens of thousands of Kingdom citizens in the countries of Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao are now suffering. On Bonaire, by the way, that's not really different. I would almost like to say to you: for God's sake, do you direct the whole Kingdom there too? Everything I have said, every subject I have raised, can be found in the annual report. In this respect, there is continuity in what we did in 2019 and what is now being discussed in 2020. The themes are the same, the stakes are the same and we are trying to safeguard the citizens' perspective. We encourage you to do so in law, regulation and policy review as well. The annual report will be available in English shortly, if I may hand it to you. But at the same time a translation in English and in Papiaments is available online at 10.30 a.m. So all citizens in the Kingdom and, because of the English version, also far beyond, can see what we have done in the Netherlands. You as a parliament and me, us, as ombudsmen. I hope that after I hand it over to you, you will continue to talk to us. I have touched on a number of things and raised them which undoubtedly call for further debate and exchange of views. We are very happy to be prepared to do so, and I hope that this will be the case on your part. Finally, let us ensure that it does not become an 80% society, in which 20% cannot participate. Let us regulate the direction so that it was as it was before the crisis, with the rule of law high on the banner, even after the crisis: that the rule of law is there for everyone. I would like to say that seems to me only normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to thank you very much for the annual report, but also for your explanation. The message is clear: society has become more complex through the centralisation of a number of tasks, the distance between citizens and government has grown and it is also unclear for citizens where they can ask for help. The title of the annual report says a lot: Rule the direction! I would like to thank you once again and through you I would also like to thank the Kinderombudsman, Mrs Kalverboer, the substitute Ombudsman, Mrs Sylvester, and all the staff of the National Ombudsman Bureau for their contribution to the annual report. The annual report of the National Ombudsman will be handed over to me by the Permanent Committee for the Interior, on the understanding that the part concerning the work of the Children's Ombudsman will be forwarded to the Permanent Committee for VWS and that the component relating to the Veteran Ombudsman will be transferred to the Permanent Committee for Defence. There the further procedures will be agreed on how these reports will be dealt with. I would like to bring to the attention of these committees the issues you mentioned in the annual report, but also in the explanatory statement, in particular those relating to children's work. That concludes the presentation of the annual report. Thank you again for being here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you.
