ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Awir Hardness Adjustment Act, Room Document 35468. I think it was last week that we started this debate. We then started with the first term of office and the Secretary of State has been able to answer a few questions. At that time, we agreed to conclude the debate on this law today. But before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to say that the parents were here today. Unfortunately not in the public gallery, but in the Square. They also had a conversation with the MPs. I understand that the Secretary of State was also present. The parents are following this debate very closely and I really hope that it will be something for the parents today, so that they can finally get some rest and get on with their daily lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u2	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week I indicated how we could continue the debate today. In that context, I also sent a letter. I've put a number of themes on paper. You received that letter yesterday, if it's all right. I have tried to answer at least some of the questions that were still open. I suggest that I do not go through the whole letter today, but will return to the main points of the letter and, above all, to the questions that have not yet been dealt with. I'd like to use four blocks for that. In the first instance, I would like to comment on the subject of set-up/great debt. In the letter, something has been written about this, but only briefly. I would therefore like to explain this a little more. The second block will be about how the implementation should be for the parents. Indeed, some of the parents have been talking to us at the Square today. I think it's good and nice to explain to them, too, how that's going to work in the coming time. The third block is about the law and the rules. I shall deal with the questions that remain, including those concerning the committees. And then there's a fourth block, other questions. These questions have to do with, for example, ongoing investigations. So I would suggest that we do it with those four blocks. Then I'll start with the block of intent/great debt. As I mentioned earlier, the aim was to accommodate parents who were wrongly blamed for that label and who were actually dismissed as fraud. These are especially parents who have been in distressing situations for many years. What we discussed earlier and what was also in the cabinet response was that we want to stop this policy at all. So we're not gonna use that label with new people anymore. Anyone who still has that and still has an outstanding debt will therefore receive a personal payment arrangement. And for the parents who are wrongly involved in the label set-up/greater debt, some of them will also be covered by the compensation scheme. But last week's debate also made it clear that not all parents have actually been satisfied with this or that their rights have actually been properly fulfilled. In order to create space for these parents to find a solution, the safety net provision was initially extended by a letter of amendment. It gives parents the opportunity to provide additional compensation. But your Chamber indicated last week in the first term that it would prefer to have a direct regulation in the law. So she doesn't just want to do it by means of a safety net clause, which we should first design with each other, but directly. Mrs Leijten has prepared an amendment to that effect, and I would like to say that I fully support it. But I'm sure she's gonna say more about that herself. I understand, of course, the desire to meet these parents in this way. That amendment provides that all parents who have been wrongly blamed for the label, and therefore wrongly called a fraud, will receive compensation which will be broadly comparable to the compensation scheme. That is the scheme that parents from the CAF 11 group or other parents who have been treated biased have received. This means that nothing changes for the parents who are already or would be eligible for the compensation scheme or the scheme from CAF 11. They're still getting that arrangement. However, especially for the parents affected by the hardness of the scheme, those were parents who, for example, had not submitted one receipt in time and therefore had to repay their entire year............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For parents affected by the harshness of the scheme or who have an improper ogs, but who also end up in very distressing situations, there is always the safety net clause that we settled with the letter of amendment we discussed last week. And then, of course, there are parents who have been wrongly blamed, but the recovery itself was still justified according to the knowledge and standards of today. This recovery will of course remain in place, even if it has already been paid, but because of the disproportionate consequences that set-up/greater debt has meant for them, they may also be eligible for that 30% concession on top of the amount they had to repay. I would like to say a few more things about this. First of all, on the question of what is a legitimate or unjustified set-up/great debt qualification. I would particularly like to look at this very generously. In any case, the burden of proof lies with the Tax Administration. We also want to look at this generously because we know that in all cases we cannot yet find out exactly why this qualification is set up/greatly blamed on parents. In that case, we would also like to say that the burden of proof lies with us. If we can't report it anymore, we assume that it was wrong in retrospect and therefore parents are also eligible for this 30% scheme. We don't quite know exactly how many parents this is about, because it's hard for us to give the exact numbers. I'm sure it's about thousands of parents. We'll see how many parents we're talking about in the coming period, as we work out the scheme. We will continue to follow that and continue to display it to you. The first estimate is that it could amount to around EUR 80 million in total over and above the schemes we have had so far. Of course, I had already looked at this when we wanted to include this arrangement in the safety net provision. The cost, that is to say 80 million, is part of the budget available. For the rest, I will ensure that it is included in the budget of the Ministry of Finance. Let me say something about the implementation. In the letter we have already mentioned a little bit more about this, but it is important to point out here that this new regulation also means something for implementation. It means something for the implementation capacity and also for the planning and lead times. Of course, I need to dig deeper into that. I will certainly inform you as soon as we give our progress reports. Our intention is, of course, to ensure that this scheme is also assessed at once when we look at the parents' files. "Instantly" means a direct review, including on this subject. For the individual parents, therefore, I always strive to keep the lead time of the handling of the dossiers at the same level with the addition of this ogs scheme. Of course, that assumes that we do it as soon as possible. Above all, I want to ensure that parents can be treated as quickly as possible, that their files are reviewed, that we take this with us, and that, of course, we ensure that the parents in the most difficult situations can be helped first at the moment. That was actually what I wanted to say on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u4	It's nice to see that there was room for this compensation. There was room at the Secretary of State, at the Ministry and at the colleagues here in the Chamber. I think that's a recognition of those parents' struggles. That's important. I am very curious about the numbers and I have often asked for them. I have seen that the internal note at least states that the exact number will be selected and made available in the same week. And that note is about November. So I hope that's what's going on. Why is this important? The Secretary of State himself indicated that, of course, the greatest pain was suffered at the largest amounts. There are now people who have applied. Those are in sight, so I think we can quickly get to work with them this summer. I would like it so much if we could start with the largest amounts of money on the basis of the figures we hope there are, because there really is the greatest pain there. I can imagine that there cannot necessarily be a commitment now, but I hope that at least everything will be done to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you for that. We know that part of the group is indeed composed of the 8,500 parents who have received a qualification set-up/greater debt and who currently still have an ongoing debt. We know that group and we have a good picture. When it comes to historical data, because that is what we are talking about here, we assume that it is somewhere between 10,000 and 15,000 parents, but there is, of course, a lot of overlap with the parents who have received an ogs qualification in the past. At the moment we do not know exactly the figures of the parents in which this has been wrongly done and of the parents who are therefore eligible for the 30% scheme, as I would just mention. It is our intention to get a better understanding of these numbers as soon as possible, because that will also help us to see how much more work that means for us. So I'd like to keep you informed. I cannot give more concrete figures today than I have just done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u6	The Secretary of State has just indicated that the extension of the scheme which I find most welcome, thanks for its constructive attitude, costs EUR 80 million. We would like to have some more information on what the other arrangements cost. How many of the 500 people who have to do this are actually working in the organisation at the moment? Because once we know that, we have some idea if it's all gonna get picked up at full speed. How many of the 500 fte that are needed are already at work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u7	I cannot give you the very precise breakdown of what kind of regulation is in at the moment. We are still working on that ourselves. We do not have any more details on the total sum of 390 million that we have initially indicated, but we assume that this total recovery will cost. I have promised earlier, and I am happy to do so again, as soon as we have a little more insight into the structure of the dossiers and the implementation. I suggest that we give a little more detail on that in the next progress report before the summer. Let's talk about the numbers. You asked another question, but I've lost it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u8	We're gonna need 500 fte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u9	Oh, sorry, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u10	We also asked at the time to indicate how things are going to work out in time. I haven't seen that either. But can you at least give us an idea of how many people are working with these organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u11	That's over 200 by now. We are recruiting hard, but of course we have suffered from the fact that in the corona period it was more difficult to get people. We are working hard not only to start this recruitment, but also to continue it. We are going to do this as much as possible with people who work at the Tax Office, of course not in the old supplement section that deals with the subject we talked about earlier. But we are going to try to recruit as many people as possible as soon as possible and otherwise supplement it with external forces that we must, of course, train to do this work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u12	So the aim is to have a fully operational organisation by the end of the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u13	We have said that we want to be fully manned on 1 September. Before then, we still want to attract a lot of people. In the summer we will also train. We want to start paying out the first parents in July and that means that part of the organisation will actually be working on assessing the files.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u14	In the written replies, the fact that there were a number of employees who were still from the CAF period has already been reflected. As I understand it, there were employees there with those professional coordinators. Somewhere else in the answers it could be read that the professional coordinators are a second pair of eyes when deciding on individual or collective dossiers. Are these two people, who have been involved in the CAF cases and are not so few, also involved in, for example, the preparatory work of the Committee of Wise Men to explain groups or not comparable to CAF 11?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u15	What I indicated last week, and what I would also like to repeat, I also said something about it in the letter "" is that none of the personal business managers, nor those involved in the assessment of files, in any form whatsoever, nor those involved in dealing with objections, are people who were involved in the CAF cases at an earlier stage. None of the employees who are about to compile the files together with the parents, none of the employees who make assessments and none of the people who make an assessment in the second line, for example, are involved in dealing with objections, will be an employee who was involved with CAF in the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u16	Finally, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u17	I asked specifically about the professional coordinators. They do not do direct contact, they do not do the primary review, but they are the external eye on that review. Can you guarantee that these persons........... have not been involved in, for example, the decision to declare CAF cases comparable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u18	I can just answer it right away. It's about the people who judge the files. There, too, the four-eyed principle plays an important role. Neither the first pair of eyes nor the second pair of eyes are, as far as I am concerned, people who have been involved in the CAF cases. I think that makes that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u19	Let's get back to this point. I read in the answer from the Secretary of State that there are no people working around the recovery operation and so on anymore in contact with the parents who have previously done wrong, wrong and terrible things for the CAF 11 cases. But the fact is that there were actually two technical coordinators, the vacos. At least that's what I'm assuming. I understand the Secretary of State's answer in such a way that they are no longer available at the moment. They were there. We know that. And we also know that personal treatment of people, who actually have contact with the parents, used to work in the Objection and Occupation department. I really want to hear from the Secretary of State that these people are no longer cooperating in the solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u20	Clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u21	I repeat the answer I gave earlier. None of the people involved in the CAF files will in the recovery operation be a personal business manager or involved in the assessment of files in the first or second line and also not in terms of the objections, in order to ensure that there is no longer a relationship between that group of people and this recovery operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u22	But you did find that it was true? Because that's a fact. The fact that it isn't anymore is very nice. I'm very happy about that. Does the Secretary of State recognise that this was actually the case last week and that it is no longer the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u23	I think I wrote it down quite precisely in the letter. Until recently, there has been talk that people from the rehabilitation organisation were still cooperating, in particular to provide insight into systems and that sort of thing. But from the start of our recovery operation, in which we work with parents, that's not gonna happen anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u24	I do not think we should repeat the same questions over and over again. If it's another question, no problem, but now you get the same answer. I would also like to make some progress in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u25	My further question is that the Secretary of State addressed the employees in her reply, but not the specific questions I asked in the first period. Why can't the Secretary of State answer that? Will she answer them, for example at EenVandaag, who has asked the same questions before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u26	I think I gave the answer I gave. I've indicated what was going on. There were people from the CAF involved in the start-up of the recovery organisation, but those people will no longer be involved. For the rest, you have asked very specific questions about various departments and so on. The plan we are talking about means that we ensure that both in contact with parents and in the assessment of the files no longer involve people from the past. I think I made it very clear that this is also our aim. We're not gonna do that anymore. I believe that we have answered the questions sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u27	However, the question whether they have been involved in the decisions taken so far, either with the Tax Administration or in compiling the files for the Committee of Wise Men. In spite of what your predecessor, Mr Snel, said here on 6 September, namely that these two technical coordinators would no longer be involved, we have to find out here, three quarters of a year later, that they are there. That they were used for a computer system to explain how that works, I get that. That's not all that exciting. But have they also been involved in the assessment or preparation of files, or in monitoring them? It listens very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u28	I cannot answer that question so specifically at the moment, so I am happy to take it to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u29	The Secretary of State may still be going into it, but I had asked a question about the assessment of the safety net clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u30	There's gonna be a block of legislation and regulations. I shall come back to that in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u31	That's good. Please continue. Oh, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u32	If this is the end of the block... this is specifically about intent or gross guilt. I can also put my question in second place, but I do not think that matters very much. In any case, I would like to say to Mrs Leijten and to all the people she has been talking to, that it is a good amendment and that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mrs Leijten, this is an important communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u34	It's a good amendment. Fortunately, my name is now underneath it; I had already informed Mrs Leijten yesterday that my name would come underneath it. I have one more question about that, if you don't mind. The CAF compensation takes into account 1% compensation to ensure that people are not taxed with such a large amount, which it may be for people under box 3. In fact, the opposite of the question is: is progress retention taken into account? Does your extraordinary income then not suffer from supplements? Now I know that the Secretary of State is still taking care of that for the CAF compensation cases. Is this settled in the same way? There is nothing about that in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u35	Sure. It's true. We have indicated that parents will somehow be compensated by us. We want to ensure that this compensation does not result in them getting an amount from us on the one hand and that they can get rid of it on the other hand, for example because they would no longer receive any allowances or, at municipality level, for example, lose their assistance. We are indeed hard at work to ensure that we can arrange this. I am very active in talking about this, among other things with the municipalities of Amsterdam and Rotterdam, to see how we can do it. And then, of course, we must also apply it to all the other municipalities. This is specifically about Mrs Leijten's amendment, in which we are talking about a compensation scheme of 30%. We have also specifically set this at 30% and not at the 25% included in the compensation scheme, because we want, among other things, to ensure that those potential box 3 effects are dealt with. That means it's in that 30%. Then I'm going to the block of "execution for the parents." Last week I gave a brief outline of this and in the letter I also said a little more about it. The core of the approach we want to take is that we want to do it together with the parents. We want to make sure that the personal business manager sits down with the parent to write his or her story together and let the parent tell the story. The personal business manager also supports the parent and can indicate how the process will proceed on the basis of the parent's preferences. We know that there are parents who are very happy to have frequent contact; other parents prefer to have a little less contact. Some prefer it by phone and others want it by e-mail. Of course, we can do all that. Then, after a file has been made together, of course, consisting of the information that we have, the information that is there with the parents, but certainly also the information that comes from the story of the parents, we are going to try as much as possible to assess the arrangements in parallel. That is what we do to ensure that we do not get the situation where a parent "goes shopping along all kinds of arrangements" as you might almost say. We want to do it as much as possible in one go. We look generous; in doubt the advantage is for the parent. We also want, of course, to ensure that there are good independent guarantees. This is not least because we have set up a number of committees. Of course, it may also be that in the course of the process things don't go right or go wrong. The communication, the letter, from a few weeks ago is an example of that. I hope that will not happen again, but as far as it is going to happen, of course, we want to fix it as soon as possible. We try to find the balance as much as possible throughout the process. On the one hand, we want speed for the parents, but also care, customization and a personal approach to ensure that we can correct the mistakes made properly. We want to make sure that the whole process of recovery goes fast, that we can learn and adjust and that we can develop and improve the approach. Of course, the aim is to compensate parents generously, and what I have indicated to you is that I want to inform your Chamber as much as possible and as comprehensively as possible about how the process is going. I therefore propose that we report every two months on the progress of the recovery operation, how it will work out and how it will be followed and appreciated. The input of, for example, the National Ombudsman can also play a role in this. I would like to comment on a number of specific questions that have been raised. The first question was put by Mr Azarkan, Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt. This was about monitoring the implementation. How's it going to go, and how's the cost going? A question has just been asked about this. They also asked how we can ensure that we keep an accurate picture of the arrangements that are being discussed, how much is being estimated for them, and how the exhaustion is going. We know that the total budgetary impact we have now estimated amounts to 390 million. In addition, there is an amount of 110 million for implementation. So that's the total of 500 million we talked about earlier. This is a rough assessment; we're going to map it further. Because we are dealing here with a supplement, that ogs scheme, that 30% scheme, it is likely that the costs will increase, although we do not yet know exactly how that estimate will coincide with the other costs we incur. So I very much agree that we need to follow this closely and monitor it closely. The progress report I've been talking about, we'd like to send it to you every two months. It is not just about how many files have been dealt with and how many parents we have been able to help, but also about the financial exhaustion of the budget. Mr Nijboer asked how we would ensure that the compensation does not go on indefinitely until 2021, 2022 or 2023. Can we give you an end date? That is quite difficult, because the end date also depends on when people come up with the request for re-evaluation. This law runs until 2024. We would, of course, like to ensure that those who report to us just before can also be helped by us. But your ambition is clear and I share this ambition. We want to ensure that parents who are already familiar with us or who come forward in the near future will be helped as soon as possible. It is our intention to be able to compensate some 100 parents as early as July or to transfer a sum to them. We also think that this year we will be able to settle some 5,000 files in total. These are both files from people in the compensation scheme, the files from the CAF investigations, and files related to the hardness of the system. But this is without prejudice to the fact that we will still need this year and next year for the whole operation, regardless of the people who may be reporting in the years after. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about this subject: how is the contact with the parents following the first letter? We sent the first letter mainly to parents who are very clearly eligible for the compensation scheme to let them know that their research files, their CAF files, have been assessed as compensatory. That letter has caused a lot of fuss. That is, of course, very unfortunate and we should not do so anymore. My intention is to inform the parents who are actually eligible for re-evaluation as soon as possible. I want to try to reach out to these parents as much as I can anyway. We have already had contact with a large part of them, some 750 parents, by telephone to explain the situation. We indicated that if the letter stated "You are not yet eligible for the compensation scheme on the basis of the CAF investigation," this did not mean that they would not be eligible for it on an individual basis. We also continue with this telephone contact. We also discussed last week that it is important for parents to know that they can still come forward. As far as they haven't done so yet, they can still do this. Again, a large part of this group is already known to us. We will actively monitor this. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked how the actual damage suffered by parents from the CAF 11 case could be compensated. You know that the CAF 11 parents have now received compensation. However, at the time when they received that compensation, the scheme for compensation for actual damage was not yet in question. If these requests are made by them, we will also actively point out to the parents that they will be assessed by the Committee on Compensation. We will then receive an opinion from this committee. Our intention is always to take this advice. Those parents are therefore invited by us to indicate whether there is any additional damage. We shall then proceed with the assessment of these dossiers. I say "we," but in the end that committee is there to do that job. We will then take their opinions. I shall now turn to Mr Snels' question. He asked me whether I saw a role for the Court of Auditors in monitoring implementation in addition to the Ombudsman last week. I understand this wish very well, of course. It is not that I can determine what the research agenda of the General Court looks like; of course, that is what they determine most of all. I think it is important that we not only keep a close eye on implementation, but that we also carry out frequent evaluations. I have already sent a letter to the National Ombudsman, in which I asked him to look at the role he could play on the basis of our discussion. He must, of course, maintain his independent position. We know that there is expertise in this area at the Court of Auditors. I therefore understand your request. It is up to you to decide whether we are going to ask the Court of Auditors to look at this further. They must, of course, include this in their schedule. Of course, they are watching how the policy is being implemented, but I can imagine that you would also ask the Court of Auditors to do further work on this. For us, of course, it is important that we keep that as much as possible together with the Ombudsman, because I would like to prevent us from spending too much time reporting rather than implementing the policy, because that is, of course, our first priority. Then there is a question from Mr Omtzigt. He asked if I would be willing to add people per committee who have as background damage or debt relief. I'd love to. I am going to make a great effort to do so. It is important that they can also be added to the committees. There is also the possibility of doing so. Furthermore, the committees will have to work properly in the near future. So I think they will be happy to welcome new members. Then there is a question from Mrs Leijten. How does it go when there's a lot of money available to people who get compensation? So we're just gonna let that go? What do we do if parents do get a large amount of money? Well, "just like that"... But what do we do if they get a sum quite suddenly? I think it is important that we accompany parents as much as possible. I have already indicated that we are going to see how we can ensure that parents do not lose any other schemes or benefits they are currently using. So we do that together with the municipalities, but I would also like to see how we can do that. Moreover, I am in consultation with the municipalities about this guidance. I would also like to look at organisations that already have experience of this. It's parents' money, of course, and they can do whatever they want with it. I would certainly like to emphasise this, but it is also important that we help them to ensure that it does not lead to new or other problems. Mrs Leijten has also raised the question of whether we can do something in the event of a regime that parents are not satisfied with or in the event that parents feel that governance is not carried out properly. In principle, we must talk to a director and work when a director has been appointed by the canton judge. If that is appreciated by parents, then I think it is important that we also talk with the director and the personal manager to see how that will work for the parents concerned. The personal business manager can also, of course, talk to the municipality. I think it is a good thing that such a three-way conversation can take place, if it is desirable, but in the end, when a director is appointed, we are in the formal position that we should also work with that director. There is nothing I can do about that, but I do think it is important that, where necessary, we look as much as possible to see if we can also have three conversations, namely parent, director and personal business manager. Mrs Leijten also raised the question of whether it would be possible to give parents who are not yet in their turn some sort of waiting money in the very short term if they were not yet ready to re-examine their dossier. Of course, I understand that idea very well, but I find it extremely difficult to work with advances again in this case, because we do not know in advance whether a parent would have to pay back even more. I think it is particularly important that we help parents who are still in trouble as soon as possible. We need to get their files processed as soon as possible and make sure we get a good look at everything. So we have to do it right at once and not in two steps. But as I have indicated a few times, I also have contact with the municipalities, and some of them have already indicated that they might want to play a role in this. If it is on the agenda and if it is going to appear in some way that we could do longer about dealing with a dossier, then I would very much like to get in touch with the municipality concerned to see if it could play a role in this, for example through special assistance. Mrs Leijten also asked a question about the broader perspective and the focus on the debt problem of parents. We have just talked about governance, but of course there are also parents who are currently using debt relief from municipalities. So I would also like to look very closely at how our re-evaluation and the possible distribution of money to the parent in conjunction with that debt relief are going to play a role. That is why, as I said earlier, I would very much like to see with the municipalities exactly how this is going to work, in order to ensure what you could almost call "a good landing" of compensation. Because it is of course important that this debt relief is in order and that parents are well supervised in any other debt there are. On the other hand, I also want to make sure that once parents get an amount from us they will not have to return it by another route. So I would like to look very carefully, together with local authorities, at how we can help parents who are in debt relief, to ensure that this compensation goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u36	I'll see if...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u37	That was my cube...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u38	Yes. The implementation part for the parents. First Mr Azarkan, then Mrs Leijten and then Mr Omtzigt. Isn't that right? Good. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As long as the paperwork's right, huh? I have a question about the personal manager. I'm struggling with that a little bit. They will still have to be recruited. I'm struggling a little bit with the fact that it's some kind of account manager, a counselor of those parents, who, however, formally isn't about anything. So it's an official who's in the service? Does it have to be an outsider, anzzp'er who lost his job because of corona? How is the Secretary of State going to fulfil that role properly, without it being someone who appears to be helping the parents, but who does answer within the Tax Office, in labour law terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u40	It's people who just work for us, who work for the recovery surgery of the surcharges. A large part of them are already employed; we already have over 100 people at work. On the contrary, I think it is so important that they accompany these parents, step by step, in building the file and in ensuring that all the information is available in order to make a proper assessment. I think it is important that these people do not make the assessment themselves. 'Cause then you'd get a weird mix of rollers. This assessment will therefore be carried out by other people, of course within the recovery organisation. But they're just in our service. They're helping the parents. There are also parents that I know have a lawyer, for example. I'm sure he'll want to watch. Of course you can. Or someone else whose parents like it when they're there and watching. But from us there is someone who guides parents step by step through the process, who plays an important role in hearing the story of the parent, who also writes it down and ensures that as much as possible the file is formed on the basis of our material, our pieces, and also that of the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u41	Has the Secretary of State also tested to some extent with a group of parents how this role can best be fulfilled? How did you test this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u42	We didn't take that test with the parents. But what is important is that the business manager himself makes arrangements with the parent. So if a parent says, "I don't need you at all, I can do it myself, I can do it myself in my file," that's fine. But if a parent says, "I'd like you to call me every day," so to speak, so can I. I think it is particularly important that this case-handler should be there for the parent. We talked about what to do last week if there isn't a good connection. Well, then we'll change that. But I've spoken to some of those businessmen myself and I got a very good and pleasant impression of them. They are really there to guide the parent and do so in the way that a parent likes and helps to compile the file as well as possible. Because what we discussed earlier, especially last week, and what you also mentioned: it's a complex set of arrangements that we need to do right and human recovery for parents. It is incredibly important that everyone is helped, that the parent knows exactly what is going on and that he or she gets the best arrangement that applies to him or her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u43	Finally. Is the parent's appreciation of the manager in any form still a kind of KPI in the dashboard? Does it do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u44	In any case, I intend to measure the degree of satisfaction of parents in the process very regularly, because it is of course extremely important. Do I feel like I could get my story straight? Do I feel like I've been helped? Was the pace up? Were the questions I asked answered? We are indeed going to measure that somehow, because it is very important that parents feel well supervised in this process. And what's the end result? I hope, of course, for a lot of parents that we can compensate them. There may also be parents who are not eligible for schemes, but then the way to appeal or appeal is open to them. Anyway, it's definitely an important part of the process. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u45	In this context, all beginnings are of course also a bit of searching. I think it is very good to ask parents how things are going. I said something about that last week. I actually want to go back to the situation of debt restructuring or government. Many parents have literally lost control of their lives because of the high debts they were attributed by the Tax Administration, either because they were under control or because they came into debt relief, in which you also have no direction. It seems to me to be such a good outcome if at the time this is being restored it is a recovery operation and the direction of those parents is there. I really do not want to put all directors on the same footing, but it is an industry that is well-earned and it is also an industry of paternalism. I understand that there are all kinds of legal things, but I'm so looking for a way to give these parents more control over where that money is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u46	I said something about that. In the context of debt relief, we will have to do so together with the municipalities, because that is where the debt relief is of course taking place. Then there's the reign. I cannot say to a director myself: you are no longer in charge. He has been appointed by the canton court and works in the interests of the parents. I have just stated precisely that where there is compensation or compensation going to parents and where parents say that they do not feel senang with just contact with directors, I propose that these talks take place mainly with the three of them. Then the parent, the director and we can see how you can best implement that role. I am not in a position, from my role as Secretary of State for Finance, to say which director is or is not good. I certainly think it is important for parents to regain control of their lives insofar as they have lost control of this issue. So again, I'd love to think along, but I can't determine who their director is. That's up to the canton judge who does the job. I would, however, like to make sure that we get to work as much as possible with the three parents, the directors and the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have suggested to see if it is possible to use a third party account, as you can see when purchasing a house. It'll be with a notary for a while. Is that really not possible? 'Cause it's people's money they can't afford. I'd love to see that figure it out really well. Because where things are going well with the regime and with those parents, it is also going well in a three-conversation and you name it, but where that is not going well, it is very poignant. Because that director is sitting on that money and that makes it impossible for people to initiate proceedings to get rid of their directors, because then you will have to pay again for the court for which those people do not have the money. So you're really trapped. I understand that we can't change the whole sector right now, and I understand that it's a responsibility of Justice and Security, but why not the construction with a third-party account? When you rule, you can't direct your money, but what if it can be done wisely with a third state that can do it with you, so that it doesn't come into the hands of someone who isn't trusted? I'd love to see us find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u48	I certainly want to look at it, but I can't promise that I can do that. I'm sure I'd like to see if we can do something with that. It is important that the money should ultimately be paid out to someone, especially the parent who is entitled to it. I wouldn't want to overdo that with all kinds of bumps. I'm sure I'd like to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr Omtzigt, then Mr Nijboer and then Mrs Lodders. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you for the commitment to include people who know something concrete about debt relief and damage in those committees. I think that can lead to even better decision-making. I have two questions along the lines of what Mrs Leijten asked. One question is about the people who are in debt relief or other routes. Can they also say anything at the time of payment? Can they also say: do it in a few months and not now? Or can they submit a little later? That could make a big difference to those people. Two. If this benefit exceeds the capital test at the surcharges, then I am thinking in particular of the capital test at the rental fee..... do we have the exception that one year can be above that without having to pay in one go his full rental fee? That can sometimes be €4,000 soon. That would be very acidic. We have made the same exception, I say to the chairman, in the post-payment of the child-related budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u51	The question of debt relief is precisely what it is about, because it is often about timing, about when or not a benefit will be paid. Again, I would very much like to see what we can do about this with the parents and the municipalities involved. I understand very well that it will be very difficult for a lot of parents if, when they actually get back an amount from the Tax Office, they somehow lose it because it will still play a role in debt relief in a very uncomfortable way. Because there is a lot of follow-up damage and so on and so on. So I'd like to take a sharp look at that. That's what I'm gonna do. That exception in the rent supplement is exactly what I was talking about. Getting an amount at once can have different effects on your capital position, whether it's about box 3 or the surcharges or municipal regulations. I'm just trying to make sure there aren't any of those effects. I still have to figure out exactly how we're gonna do it, but my wish is to make sure that there's an exception to the rent payment when such a sum comes up all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yes. Sir... okay. Lord... yes, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u53	Yes, if you'll invite me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u54	No, I'm not inviting you at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u55	I assume that we will then get a feedback on that first question in the progress report. That's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u56	Thank you. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u57	I don't quite know what that is, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u59	I'm just going to come back to the speed with which parents finally get clarity. The Secretary of State rightly said that if parents report later, they should not... that was never the purpose of my questions. So we can still do that next year, fine. It is, of course, about the parents who have been waiting so long for clarity. It is still unclear to them when this solution will finally come. The Secretary of State says she's gonna try to compensate 5,000 people this year, but we don't even know exactly how big that group is. There are still a lot of parents who don't know that. What I'm looking for for these different groups of parents is a kind of end date on which they get clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u60	I get that, too. As I said last week, the point is that we already have a large group of parents in the picture. They've already come forward. If the regulation and the law are adopted as they are now, that means that they have to hear exactly what is going on with their file within six months. The same applies to the parents who are already familiar. The counter will run on 1 July or 6 July, depending on the publication of the law. That's important to know. I would very much like to send a letter to the parents at the time when this is the subject of the text: "We will start with the assessment of your file on date X. You have checked in. We'll start on that date. Within a few months of that date, we will make sure that you hear from us what the outcome is." I would very much like to do that, because that means that it becomes clear to parents that we will not start with their files today or tomorrow, but that they will receive a message from us when they do: we will start in July or August or September. Again, we hope as soon as possible, but it should be clear when the trajectory starts, when parents can expect the personal business manager to contact them to make their file and when the end is in sight of the trajectory, regardless of the objections and appeals that parents have after that. But at least we have given a first judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u61	That sounds good to me. That is in addition to opposition and appeal, because in the end you can always go to court and then the Secretary of State cannot be subject to time limits. But the point is that the tax authorities end up depositing money into an account that they intend to do so. How hard are these deadlines? There's gonna be 500 men working. They haven't all been accepted yet, and it's pretty complicated. How hard are the deadlines laid down in the parents' letter? How can they force that this is really the end date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u62	There is an amendment in the making. I think we'll get to that in a minute. My intention is to ensure that we do indeed have one time limit within which the parents qualify for all schemes is assessed. That is what we are doing to ensure that there is no accumulation of deadlines. This is subject to a period of six months, with an exception in special cases. But the amendment is still on its way, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u63	Yeah, that's gonna be judged later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u64	So we're gonna have to look at that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u65	I wholeheartedly support the amendment tabled by GroenLinks. We can set that deadline, but what is the consequence if those six months are not met? That's all I care about. In Groningen I saw that there were also final deadlines for people: the reinforcement starts next year. But two years later, nothing had happened. People stood empty-handed despite their good intentions. So what's the consequence? How sure are people of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u66	I do not want to issue deadlines if we do not see that as a guarantee. If we say that the examination of a dossier takes six months, then it should not be the case that we then take much longer, unless there are very special reasons for it. As soon as we tell parents "we're gonna start your file," I think it's important that we're also able to get the lead times we indicate. I think it's important that the parents can count on that, too. Of course, we have to do the job. We have to plan very carefully and we have to make sure that we do it properly and efficiently, but we, and especially me, are committed to ensuring that we meet those deadlines, because I think it is very important that parents are helped as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u67	I asked a question earlier about the retention of progress in the context of the surcharges. That is wider than just the rent payment, I say in the direction of Mr Omtzigt. I assume that the commitment that the Secretary of State has just made to Mr Omtzigt will be given a broader picture to see what that means for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u68	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u69	Anyway, that's exactly what you promised. My question is about "beautiful." I read in the letter from the Secretary of State, and I hear her say here again that they want to be generous and that they want what is best for their parents. That's what I'd like to underline. But I do have a question. Could it be that there are parents who are eligible for the CAF compensation and have also been granted a decision for this, but who later find that they were also blamed for a set-up? You can't do that together. This accumulation is avoided, but in my view, in an exceptional case, the CAF compensation could be lower than if they had been eligible for set-up/greater debt. I know those examples may not be there now, but can the Secretary of State outline what will happen next? Could parents who have had the CAF compensation be eligible for the multiple by means of the safety net provision? So both can't, but the multiple. Would the Secretary of State agree to report in the progress report whether this occurs and how it is handled? Not at parent level, but yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u70	Yeah, I think it's a good thing we do. We have always had the intention, in making this law and the corresponding AMvB and ministerial arrangements, to make the compensation scheme the toughest scheme, plus the possibility of actual damage if you have suffered more damage than you receive on a flat-rate basis under the scheme. But in all cases, the final outcome must be for the parent that you get the best arrangement that applies to you. If this is still a theoretical situation, I will make sure that we report on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u71	The reason I am asking this question is that some parents have already heard that they are eligible for the CAF. Then the Secretary of State turns to cash, but we all don't know exactly how it goes with the delivery of documents or files. If by mistake you did not qualify for the most favourable situation, then I think there should be an escape. That is the reason for my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u73	Please continue. You were by laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u74	I was indeed at the block of laws and regulations. We have, of course, already said a little more about this in the letter, including how the regulations are going to work, how the various committees are going to work and how they are going to be laid down. I shall move on quickly to the questions that have been asked. Mr Omtzigt asked about the hardness of the system. You asked whether that was the result of the law or policy, i.e. an interpretation of the Tax Administration. The hardness of the system is, of course, in the strict charging rules that apply to it and the subsequent strict execution by the Tax Administration. For a long time, this strict implementation has also been confirmed, for example by the Council of State in the cases that served on it. What is, of course, important is that we now in the coming time... Sorry, we've already indicated that we've been looking at that differently since last October's statements. We have published policy rules on this before, so we are no longer using the same interpretation of hardness, but the proportional interpretation. Then I turn to Mr Mulder's question: how is it determined whether a parent is eligible for the hardness regime? The parents will, of course, be told on the basis of the research we are doing what would be the most appropriate arrangement for them. This therefore applies in the case of non-proportional granting: if the whole child care allowance was recovered from that single receipt. It may also be that there are other minor shortcomings, such as the absence of a signature or fraud by third parties, on the basis of which that scheme applies, and therefore parents should not have paid back what happened earlier, but should have recovered part or perhaps even all of it throughout the year. Then there is Mr Snels' question. Why does the burden of proof appear to lie entirely with the parent in the hardness regime? You have tabled an amendment to that effect, which is in fact in line with what I have already indicated, with the common commitment to ensure that we work together, older and the personal manager, in order to obtain information. I would therefore like to give the House's opinion on that amendment. Then there is Mr Snels' question about the hardness clause. Can we not create the opportunity to object and appeal against it? Of course, that sounds very logical, but in fact it is not. This is a clause which allows us to take special decisions in particular cases, because the normal application of the scheme would not have a pass. At a time when we could also raise an objection and appeal against it, this is likely to lead to a very large number of appeals to this system and a great deal of extra appeal to the case-law. So we would like to keep this scheme as it is, whereby the parent can ultimately appeal against the final decision but not specifically against the use of this scheme. Then there are the questions put by Mrs Leijten, Mr Azarkan, Mr Snels and Mr Omtzitz on the safety net clause. We have made that safety net provision in the law in order to be able to offer compensation to parents or to arrange compensation for very distressing cases and cases that we do not yet know are there. In order to actually complete that safety net provision, we are going to do so in the form of an AMvB, we are going to ask our Committee of Wise Men and the Commission to provide additional compensation, on the basis of the first dossiers that we are going to assess, to create a framework that we are going to include in that AMvB. To get a bit of a picture of what might be included in that safety net clause, for example, two examples. For example, a parent can make use of the hardness of the scheme, is thus entitled to what the parent was originally entitled to, but has been forced to sell the property in the context of this whole situation. There may also have been a strong disruption in personal life. Such a safety net provision could then allow for additional compensation. In this case, this would therefore be a follow-up to the safety net provision. Again, we're gonna work on that. The AMvB is coming to see you again last week. Mrs Lodders raised the question as to whether the safety net provision was limited to the childcare allowance. That's right. The safety net provision that we are talking about here is about the child care allowance and therefore applies specifically to it. Mrs Lodders also asked about the possible precedent of the law. With this special law and the corresponding AMvB and ministerial regulation, we aim to ensure that this is a unique pathway to compensate parents, parents who have been so badly affected by an unreasonable set of rules and a very poor and unpleasant implementation of the rules by the Tax Administration, in this very special situation. It is therefore also intended to cover this very exceptional situation. This does not mean that it is a law that applies to other situations. So we have to do it through this law. But it is certainly our intention to avoid any precedent, given the particular situation we are dealing with here. Mr Azarkan asked whether the CAF 11 cases had been dealt with, how many objections had been raised and how they were dealt with. The CAF 11 parents received their compensation. We have given them a decision on this matter. There are indeed parents who have objected. There are 57 parents who have raised an objection. A large part of it, 41, concerns pro-forma concerns of a lawyer acting on behalf of those parents. The objection committee will, of course, look at those objections. However, it is also important that these parents continue to be eligible for the now more extensive possibility of obtaining compensation on the basis of actual damage suffered. That committee will, of course, also look at this damage if parents indicate that they want to be eligible for it. A total of 82 parents have applied for compensation for this. Then to Mr Azarkan's question as to whether the system will continue to apply to requests made just before 2024, which runs until 1 January 2024. Of course it is. We have said that we do want the law to end so that we can complete the recovery. Hopefully we've been able to do justice to most parents long before then. But, of course, we can and will take that matter into consideration if you submit it a day in advance. Mr Azarkan has also asked whether we will have a positive outcome if a decision is not taken in good time. I can't make that commitment. Of course, we want to look carefully at what a parent is entitled to. We want that investigation to take place properly. Of course, we also want to keep that speed in. It's been discussed before. But we do think it is important that it is done properly and carefully. I do this for two reasons: not only to ensure that parents who are entitled to do so are entitled, but also to ensure that we do not pay out parents who are not eligible for it. Mr Azarkan also asked whether costs could be reimbursed. That depends on the arrangement. In the case of the compensation scheme, that is the case, but this is not so much the case with the hardness scheme or with ogs, although it is actually included in the flat-rate compensation of 30%. Should this lead to very distressing situations, the safety net provision applies here too. Then, as far as I'm concerned, I've been talking about the block about the law and the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u75	There is an interruption by Mr Azarkan. Then Mrs Leijten and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u76	Those lead times, or at least the moment when the situation is weighed and assessed for a parent to whom it is eligible. In theory, how long can that last? One of the things that annoyed a lot of parents is that objections last a year and a half. We'll talk about 2014, 2015. According to the law, it's six weeks, and then it's extended. But that's a year and a half in trouble. Can the Secretary of State indicate where there's some kind of ending? And that is a proposal I made if it is not enough to make an assessment, then it must be positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u77	Again, I find that very difficult. There is another amendment, but we want to be able to judge as much as possible for all the regulations at once. For the schemes for which the parent is eligible, we want to limit the time limit to six months. That may sound a long time, but when we implement this law we start with a large number of parents who are already familiar with us and who are already waiting. We also want to do it as much as possible during that period. And if it takes longer than six months, then we will really have to state very clearly exactly what is going on and why it is. But we assume that in most cases we can do it during that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u78	But does it end after a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u79	Well, I hope that it ends for most parents long before that time, namely in the period we indicate that this applies, namely that period of six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u80	I'm not interested in what the Secretary of State hopes. I notice that she is really willing to deal with this difficult dossier, which has not been resolved by previous Secretary of State. So it's not in there. I am concerned with the question of whether the time limit for a parent's decision is finite. Is it after a year? Of course, if it's okay in a month, I'd love to. But does it end after a year, after two years, after three years? When's the last parent gonna be clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u81	If we cannot reach that six-month deadline, which I repeat is our great aim, then in exceptional cases you can still have six months, as the proposal complies with the amendment. Then we must be able to make a judgment. It may be that parents still object and appeal afterwards, but of course I cannot completely influence those periods, because they need to be given the space to take the time to do so. However, once again, my strong wish is that we should also focus on the fact that, in a period of six months from the time the parent reports, or from the moment this law starts, if it is good from the beginning of July, we can actually handle everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u82	Then I conclude that the Secretary of State says: I aim to do it as soon as possible, as much as possible within the first six months, and exceptionally extend it. But I note that there will be no parents who will have to wait more than a year for the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u83	It is always very difficult to guarantee that, but I would like to say that in very few cases this should be the case. As far as I'm concerned, it shouldn't be necessary to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u84	It didn't really come back in the answer from the Secretary of State, but it was in the letter we received and in the document from the Committee of Wise Men. I do have a supplementary question on this because I find it really, really, enigmatic how some CAF cases, which I personally know well because I know these parents and have seen the files, have fallen outside the criteria. In fact, I think it is very undesirable that the Tax Administration/Applications took a first sample and that after that the Committee of Wise Men started to look at it. I told you last week, the IRS says to itself, "Hi, I'm giving myself a yellow card or a red card." Well, a case was dismissed from Anker, a Rotterdam case. That's what a lawsuit was about. That mother was just told in the trial: the tax authorities unjustly stopped. And now the verdict is: no, there hasn't been a hard stop, a soft stop, or what it's all called, so no discontinuation that was unexplainable for parents in 2014/2015. No, that's right, because this CAF case took place in early 2016! And yes, there are more than 100 people being pushed aside for a while. They must now all come forward individually. Lawyers are going to object to the letter. Is it still possible to pass the test that the Committee of Wise Men has taken on reporting from the Tax Administration, just by themselves, without any direction from the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u85	The Committee of Wise Men itself deals with the organisation of its working methods and has made agreements with the Tax Administration/Applications, which of course has to provide all the information and files they want and need to do their work. I think it is very important that we keep talking about this first group of parents, who we were sure could benefit from the compensation scheme. We want to be able to help them as soon as possible. The distinction between the dossiers must be made as quickly as possible. That is the work done by the Committee of Wise Men. I have also indicated that the parents of whom the total CAF dossier has not been assessed as comparable by the Committee of Wise Men can indeed be considered themselves. So they weren't rejected either. All they've been told is that your entire file is not on the table. It is therefore quite possible that an individual parent in that file, a parent you know, could indeed be eligible for an individual assessment of the compensation. I do not think it is appropriate for the Committee of Wise Men to do its work again without the individual assessment, because that is exactly what we are waiting for. We want to ensure that we are able to make the individual assessment of parents whose total file may not be comparable to CAF, so that those parents can actually hear that they are eligible for this scheme as a person, or not; it concerns those to whom that is at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u86	I'm sorry to have to say it, but we've been sent into the woods by the Donner Advisory Committee. He said at first: how CAF 11 was treated was institutionally biased. But in the second Donner report, he's getting that back. Five criteria! Now people from the point of view of the Tax Administration just don't fall into the five criteria. The Tonga case also knows the Secretary of State. That's where the FIOD went in to look at the owner. All these parents lost everything in one go. No, that was not biased; thank you the cuckoo! The new Donner criteria make the group even more limited, because the conditions are even more limited. That is a problem in implementation. What that committee is going to do now is actually limit even more. And the Secretary of State stands here and says, "I want a generous look. I blame the Secretary of State not necessarily, but that is what is now before us. We have a committee that says on the report of the Tax Administration with a sample that something is or is not compensatory on the basis of selection criteria that are simply not right. If fraud was not detected in a CAF investigation and the parents were dealt with and then the owner of a childcare agency or host parents' office was caught, then that was biased. Then there may still be things that may be individually objectionable, but that group-by-group approach is there. If we don't return to that, it's gonna be an endless twitch. That is not good for the Secretary of State, not good for the scheme and certainly not good for the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u87	And what is your question, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u88	Let the Committee of Wise Men throw away that method and above all interpret Donner's selection rules widely. And let them look again at the CAF equation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u89	I don't think we should look back, but look forward. Again, the question to the Committee of Wise Men was which CAF investigations we know for certain that there has been such bias that all parents included should be eligible for the compensation scheme. Those are 2,200 parents in total. That is a large group of parents who can actually be compensated in the near future along the lines of the compensation scheme, the largest scheme we have. As far as I am concerned, it is now up to us to get to work with all the parents who are in the non-comparable CAF business. This will include parents who are individually eligible for the scheme. I will see to it that the Committee of Wise Men, of course, gets the documents and the information so that it can actually make individual assessments of the matters at issue. I don't think it's wise to do the work again now, because I think it's good that we're right where we are. It is particularly important that we move forward now and take the step towards individual assessment, on the basis of which parents can actually get the amount they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u90	It is a good idea, because otherwise you have to look at 8,000 people individually, with a file that is often not complete yet. If you look at the level of the group again, you're one step further and you're one step faster. It is inexplicable and untenable that Anchor, Tonga, Bailing, Apple Blossom doesn't... Apple blossom was exactly Bebegim. Bebegim falls in, but Apple blossoms don't. That's inexplicable. This is gonna be a lot of hassle and uncertainty. I would like to point out one more thing: I received answers from the Secretary of State to parliamentary questions about the Anchor Case. That's CAF 16. There was a statement at the time that a parent had indeed had to do with unjustified discontinuation. I ask then what reconstruction of the Tax Administration is the basis of the court's plea, which shows that CAF 16's termination was unlawful and whether this reconstruction or analysis can be sent to the Chamber. And then it says: "According to the situation surrounding the CAF 11 file... blade. The file has been looked at generously. It has also been concluded that the supplement of the person concerned has been discontinued in the same way as in the CAF 11 file.' Same way! And that's not comparable to CAF 11. This doesn't look good. Why don't you take that sages' committee to the table? Point them on this. Maybe take us with a little more insight. If they do that on report from the IRS, it's too vulnerable. There's a lot more information that makes judgment for an entire group different. Then all these people don't have to make the lonely way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u91	I believe that I have indicated what I have said, namely that I believe that it will become clear to parents as soon as possible whether they are actually eligible for the compensation scheme. I do not think it is wise at this time, but I would like to come back to the subject of the Anke case in the second term, because I do not have an immediate response to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u92	About the Anke case. That is a very special case, a case that RTL has reported a lot about. Gwendolyne Santos was the person who went to court. The Tax Administration admitted in court that the cessation was unlawful in 2016. That was the so-called soft stop. Soft stop sounds very nice for people from outside, but soft stop is a hell. It was stopped and you couldn't get it going. That was illegal. And to my surprise, bewilderment, what does the Committee of Wise Men at the Tax Office say? "We agree with the Tax Administration because there was no soft stop in the years 2014 and 2015, because it only started in December 2015." No, the soft stop was in 2016. So there was a soft stop but the Tax Administration/Applications doesn't say that at all to that committee of wise men. In fact, there is a ruling at the Rotterdam Court, where the Tax Administration itself admits it. Why didn't the Tax Administration say to the Wise Men's Committee: there was a stop in 2016 that was unlawful and we admitted it in court? Did the Tax Department, where there have been documents before the court, give them to the Committee of Wise Men? Someone from the Supreme Court is in there, so they can handle court rulings. Was that member of the Supreme Court aware of the judgments of judges in those individual files, which say so exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u93	You're asking me something very specific about this case. I can't answer that directly. I suggest I get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u94	I welcome your coming back, but this is exactly the problem we were warning you about. That problem was: give that committee of wise men the whole file. Pats! And what happens? The Tax Administration/Aanlagen gave part of the file, so did not say what happened in 2016. It has been the duo pitch and feathers that did this; see the WOB-pieces. And that duo did everything rücksichtslos. That was done by the person who had on the pen said "reject in doubt." There was an instruction that we still do not have, a work instruction, because that was not a formal right. That work instruction said, "Don't take it all." And the Committee of Wise Men says: if everything is rejected in opposition, it will have gone well in the first round. Well, exactly the opposite. My question is: how can it be that the ADR committee does not examine the dossiers as a whole first and that the Donner advisory committee then says: no, it should be reviewed by the Committee of Wise Men? Then we come to the Committee of Wise Men and the Committee of Wise Men does not even know that in 2016 the Tax Administration stopped it illegally and includes it in its report. Isn't that incredible after three years of research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u95	I don't know if that conclusion about 2016 is true. Once again, I would like to come back to that in second place if I could say a little more about it. Otherwise, I'll do it in writing. What is still important is that we are talking here about a first distinction that the Committee of Wise Men has been asked to make in total CAF files where there is talk that these parents should be eligible for the compensation scheme. They've been looking at that. Once again, there will be a number of individual compensations, and that can still be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u96	But it's not about the individual, because this discontinuation was the same in the whole file. This was also the file that contains a suicide. This file was very hard. I've seen several of them. That was tough in 2016 and that it was tough in 2016 was not put in the conclusions by the Tax Administration/Applications before the court and was not seen by the Committee of Wise Men because it saw an incomplete file. If what I see here turns out to be so, that means that the Committee of Wise Men has to do part of its work again and does not consist of eminent lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u97	Then I go to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, then to Mrs Lodder and then to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u98	I have a question about that, too. I find it inexplicable that the Committee of Wise Men should assess a whole package of 119 on the basis of 24 applications. On the basis of 24 cases, a sample, the Committee of Wise Men actually says: they are not covered by CAF, they are not eligible. That's really weird. Can you explain why that was chosen? Maybe the Secretary of State can come back to that in the second term. Can the Secretary of State explain why Increases and the Committee of Wise Men in the cases of Anker leave the starting point of discontinuation of preliminary investigation, while the ADR has established that 56% of cases have been closed without investigation? I find that reversal very strange. Maybe the Secretary of State can come back to that in the next term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u99	I'll take that. I told you, we're back on this CAF case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u100	In both the written round and last week, I asked questions about the weighting of the criteria and how they are dealt with. I read the Secretary of State's letter. That letter is part of the legal process, I say to the President, because it is important in the context of the legal history that the Secretary of State should explain the group criteria and the weighting of the criteria. Thank you for that. I would like to ask the Secretary of State the following. If the Committee of Wise Men makes individual assessments, will the Secretary of State describe in the progress report for some of these cases how the Committee has dealt with them, if that is not clear at the moment? And at the moment that is not clear, the Secretary of State writes in her letter. I would like to ask another question on this subject, following on from Mrs Leijten's question. If such a group, such as Anker, is assessed, one of the parents can say: I want my file assessed individually. It is true what is suggested here that the whole group should be comparable to the CAF. After its initial assessment, will the Committee of Wise Men then consider individual assessment of all these dossiers, or should parents take action themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u101	No, in all cases we will ensure that action is taken; in any case. As a result of the question on the inclusion of the criteria, the following questions were raised: This is true in part in the context of the compensation scheme, but, of course, if we have all assessed the dossiers, we must look more closely at what exactly we are going to weigh. I think it would be very good if, in the progress report, we were to say something about the criteria of consideration, perhaps on the basis of examples, because I think it is important that not only us, from the work we do, and the committee, but also the Chamber, should be able to look into the effects of the arrangements in practice. Do we think it is logical that this parent should have this arrangement in this case? I think that's the most important thing. It is, of course, about getting the parents whom we all believe they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u102	Sure. Thank you for this commitment. That is the most important thing for the parents, but I also think it is important to be able to monitor how that committee of wise men handles it. Then one last check question. I read that a preliminary conclusion is drawn by the Tax Administration/Applications. If parents have a different opinion than the preliminary conclusion reached by the Tax Administration/Applications, then their file goes to the Committee of Wise Men. Only then will there be a formal decision. On the next page I read that the average lead time from the first conversation with the parent will be up to three months. Is that right? We have just exchanged many words about these deadlines. I understand the run-off to six months, but the average time will really be those three months, won't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u103	Yeah, that's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u104	In addition to my colleagues, I say that my shoelaces also came out when I saw that comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u105	You're not wearing them at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u106	And I'm not even wearing them. You can see that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u107	Yeah, I can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u108	It was proverbial. In comparison, I find it just hard to eat, even for the parents. If you look at the toughest categories, out of the ten, which the Donner Committee said is likely to be, four are served away by the Committee of Wise Men. Then we look at that second category, of which the committee says 'possible', and there too there are only four. That's weird, isn't it? That's not good to explain, is it? One of them has a careless look. So is it some sort of tombola assessment that the groups are doing? Or does the Secretary of State still have an overview of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u109	What we indicated in the letter is that the assessment of the CAF files took place in stages. In the first instance, this was done mainly quantitatively, by the Advisory Committee on Implementation Supplements and by the ADR. The Committee of Wise Men then drew conclusions on the basis of work it has agreed with us, research work, which are also set out in the letter. They have looked more closely at the files, in the research files and also in the individual files of parents, and then come to the judgement they have come to on that basis. Once again, however, I would like to make it very clear here that we are talking about an initial selection of the files, the CAF files, which we are sure the parents will be eligible for the compensation scheme; that is about 2,200. Afterwards, we will look at whether parents can also benefit individually from this compensation scheme. It is very important to know that the committee is going to look further at an individual level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u110	Then there's another question. When examining the file, I noticed that we do not know all the names of the CAF cases. Some of them are just gone. Did I miss that somewhere? Why don't we know all those names?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u111	I think they've...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mrs Leijten gave the answer, but not in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u113	In this file we always get a lot of pieces in one go. Then you sometimes miss something, because that is often only 24 hours before a debate. We got a list of all the CAF cases once. I think it was sometime in December, just before that debate Menno Snelk took off. I think it contains the names and numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u115	But it's clumsy that you don't have them next to each other. So if you don't know, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u116	Okay. Because I don't have a list here, but then I just missed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u117	It happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u118	That can happen, indeed. I'm gonna go see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u119	Secretary of State Van Huffelen, have you come to the last part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u120	Yes, the last part consists of the other questions that have been asked. Mrs Lodders asked a question about dealing with real fraudsters, or people who also appear to have committed fraud in the label of intent/big debt. It is, of course, clear that, if there has been real fraud, they have been properly qualified as a set-up/greater debt. Of course, they will not receive any compensation, nor can there really be a safety net scheme. So let's be clear about that. We will also try well to distinguish between rightly and unjustly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u121	I see there's been an interruption, but I still want the Secretary of State to finish this. Then comes the opportunity to ask something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u122	I had come to Mr Mulder's question, which was also put by Mr Van Weyenberg, in connection with the fact-finding and information available at the Ministry of Social Affairs. A letter was sent to your Chamber on this matter, and I understood that it was today or yesterday with more information about the investigation that is to take place. Then there is Mrs Leijten's question about access to the FSV. We sent you a letter about how we're going to investigate this file. The FSV is a system that contains signals of possible fraud and other signals. It is my intention to make clear to the parents who have been wrongly blamed for the qualification. If the FSV has played a role in this, I want to ensure that information about it becomes available. We are going to talk about this dossier when we talk about the FSV, the system and how it worked. This will be for the summer in a first round. I hope to be able to tell you more about it. I have another question from Mr Azarkan about host parents' agencies. Mr Azarkan said that there are also host-parent offices that may have been affected in this case. In the first instance, of course, I wanted to make sure that the affected parents were helped. Anyway, I know there are hostage agencies that also think they've suffered damage. If this is an illegal act on our part, it must of course lead to an issue which we must discuss with them. As far as I'm concerned, we're doing this on the basis of normal civil law. If there are host parents' agencies that think they are eligible for compensation, I think it is right that they should report to us or to me, so that we can talk about it. Once again, I would not like to make a kind of general arrangement for this. Civil law can also simply do its job. But, of course, I'd like to talk to them. These were the points I had left in the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr Azarkan, very briefly, because we also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u124	I have two questions. My colleague Leijten was mistaken. Because that list isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u125	Oh, okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u126	That list is there though I have it in my hand and I just miss 30 names on it. My question to the Secretary of State is: why are some names of CAF cases not shared?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u127	I've been asked a moment, because I think that first list is from before my period. Yesterday's attached letter deals with the selection of the cases assessed by the Committee of Wise Men. I'd be happy to check this out for you. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u128	Fine. Well, let's talk about the damage that host parents have suffered. I really know a number of them personally, who have been complaining to me regularly since 2013/2014. They said, "The Tax Office does such strange things." I didn't believe that in principle; I've told you that before. Then I said to one of those owners, "Well, our IRS doesn't do that." But an owner like that kept hanging in there. I have noticed that a lot of those entrepreneurs have been blamed by those parents for the wrong things being done by the host agencies. This also happened in the CAF 11 case, for example. An entrepreneur said: all these parents became suspicious of me and asked what I had done wrong. I think it's too easy to say that these host parents should only report once if they've suffered damage. It would be a gesture in this case, some of which are also comparable to the CAF 11, it would also be chic, if the Ministry says: we call the host parents' offices ourselves and we talk to them. Then you can always see how to do something through civil law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u129	As far as I know, some of the agencies have checked in with us. That's what we're talking to. As far as people are affected by it, we're definitely gonna have that conversation. I can't see if there's a list of people we don't have in the picture. Again, as far as people are not talking to us yet, I would especially like to invite them to report to us, because then we would like to see how that matter went with them. We do not need to make a separate arrangement for this, but normal civil law can play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u130	I have two other questions. The first one. I have indeed seen the letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs on the investigation. I'm glad we're getting the first results before 1 September. They will still have to be validated by the audit service, but then we will have the report. It also says that there are conversations with a view to getting all the pieces above water. I hope, of course, with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs that the story is clear, but I also hope that the Ministry will prepare itself for the fact that, if it does not, we will have talks afterwards if they have also been conducted by the Audit Service at Finance. The question is not "what pieces do you know?', But "what really happened here?'. I hope that the pieces will be clear, but I am not 100% sure of that. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u131	That question is difficult for me to answer at the moment. Of course, it is important that we try to get as much as possible out of the water. That is being worked on and my colleague Van Ark has indicated how this work will be done. I can talk about that... I do not know exactly what else you think should come up with, because I believe that the research is being done well and with the aim of getting the documentation that will give us insight. After all, the origin of this whole question was: why did not the issues that were already known at the time lead to a change in the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u132	I understand the purpose and also that the conversations are aimed at getting documents out. We hope that it will clarify what has happened. I only take into account the scenario that the documents are not there or that those documents do not provide the desired clarity. Then a more in-depth interview with employees and other stakeholders could be needed to see if we can get more information orally. I understand that a kind of two-stage rocket has now been chosen, because they would like to conduct interviews first to get the pieces above the table. However, I would like to make it quite clear here that if that is not the whole story, there must be a follow-up study as far as I am concerned. I will certainly ask for it, and I hope that people will be prepared for it. That was my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u133	Well, your second question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u134	You're saying you'd be attached to getting the investigation done. I can, of course, give that to my colleague, but she is now going to work along the lines of the letter she has sent to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u135	I get that. I only announce that if that does not complete the story, I and I think many will ask through with me. My second question concerns the Committee of Wise Men. I find it very complicated and therefore I'm still looking. We have set up an independent committee, which is not going to look at the 24 or 25 that have now been done on major CAF cases, of course, which is going to test individually. But we're putting people in some kind of fast lane now. Some questions have been asked about how that analysis took place. I also hope that we can see if it is possible because of the time frame within which the files have been given. That just came up in the debate a little bit. That there is a sample, I understand, but the question is what that in the limitation of the pieces per case from the sample... Is that what might lead to the discussion? I hope that, in the second term, the Secretary of State will go into that 2014/2015 very specifically in the report. Does that mean they didn't have the other information? We're assuming that now, but I can't entirely deduce that from the pieces we have. I would therefore like to ask that question explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u136	I would like to take that with me, because that is precisely the question that was asked earlier: has that information also been available in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u137	I think you were done. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u138	Yeah, I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u139	Has there been a question left, Mr. Ommzigt? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u140	That is also up to me, Mr President, because I am asking so many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u141	That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u142	One question is half-stayed. The Secretary of State replied on the Authority Personal data in the letter we received yesterday. My question was also whether in the last two years an initial report of findings of the Dutch Data Protection Authority has been sent to the Tax Office on what they have now found. The second question. I asked for an explanation. Is there anything known about other CAF cases, such as CAF ib cases or 1043? How can we obtain information about this? Is there anything else that's gonna come up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u143	So two questions have remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u144	If you ask whether there has already been a report from the AP investigation: I am not familiar with that for a moment, but if so, I will come back to that in the second term. Those two other things are not in the childcare allowance but in another file, as far as I am aware. My proposal is to return to this subject next Tuesday, the 23rd, in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u145	I like that very much. I understand we're not doing it today. I would very much like to receive information in advance on what we know about these matters so far. Indeed, that does not have to be about the childcare business, but the same CAF team on another file. Then I would also like to know if that is only with ib or if there are quite other CAF things, because I do not know. I'd like to hear it before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u146	I'm not sure I can have that done before then. If that's the case, I'd be happy to. At least we are going to do our best to give you an initial answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u147	Thank you. You can sit down again, Secretary of State, and have a glass of water. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I see there's a need for a short suspension. No problem. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'd like to suggest that you do the second term of the Chamber first, so you can file your motions. Then a dinner break, so the Secretary of State can sort out the motions and the questions quietly. No, I'm not gonna negotiate dinner break because I know how that ends. I'm suspending for ten minutes now. Is that enough? Yes. Then I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u148	I'll resume the meeting. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. Of course, yesterday we were also able to receive 21 tips with further information; some of them were also answered. I'm happy to look back on the first term. I also had the pleasure of speaking first. Mr. Chairman. It is also good to be working on legislation. Sharp questions from colleagues who ensure that we can make better legislation with each other: I think that is an example of how, on the basis of good analyses and good tests, you can come to a solution to these distressing cases. Over the past three years, I've been talking to the parents many times. I have seen at close range how enormous institutional bias can affect people in life. We should actually do it more often: more legislation, less work on peripheral issues. I believe that a colleague said the same here a few weeks ago. Mr. Chairman. I see the Secretary of State is doing an enormous amount of work. Appreciation of the DENK Group. It is difficult to solve in a short time what others have not done properly. I'm a little worried we need to be realistic. In our eagerness to do the right thing for the affected parents, we must not make demands or have ambitions that the Secretary of State agrees with, but which then gets caught up in the implementation. Mr. Chairman. In the approach there are two issues that are important for the DENK Group and which are also the weak point. The first is the great complexity of the recovery operation. The Secretary of State has said that this is a matter of care. Last time, in the first term, I explained how much was rigged. The second concerns the application of those five Donner criteria. We have pointed out in a number of interrupting debates that the appreciation of the Committee of Wise Men can be quite different from that of the Donner Committee. We've rigged up a rather bureaucratic organization that operates across many disks. I also see, from a sort of helicopter view, a compulsive tendency to give everyone exactly the right compensation: not a penny too much, but not a penny too little. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has made the adjustment for intent/great debt. We stay together at at least the speed and also on the dashboard. The question is whether it can be simpler. I realize, of course, that this complexity reduction is very complicated. Above all, this legislation must go ahead and start on 1 July, so that parents get satisfaction. I have tabled two amendments and I have two motions. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State Secretary reported a suspicion of professional discrimination and gags committed by the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas it is important that no one is assessed by origin or last name and that this should be beyond doubt;]] [[whereas the National Ombudsman has indicated that prejudice and bias occur in broad sections of the public administration;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a wide-ranging review of all government executive services against professional discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u150	Finally, Mr President. We are, of course, also making legislation here in the Chamber which can sometimes be very bad. I thought, "We can also put a little bit of our own bosom." Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the supplement legislation was introduced on 1 January 2006, following a legislative process in the Second and First Chambers;]] [[Whereas for the tens of thousands of people this legislation has not achieved the goals that were envisaged at the time, but has given a dramatic turn to their lives;]] [[Whereas regular reference is made to the importance of the quality of legislation and also to the role of Parliament in it;]] [[expresses her apologies for the way in which Parliament's 2006 supplement legislation has dealt with affected parents and the negative impact it has had on their lives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u152	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr. Chairman. This is a subject that affects everyone, especially when you talk to the parents, look them in the eyes and see them: we really don't have to deal with people who are just as tasty going to bottle. And whether it was the hardness of the arrangement or whether it was biased? Those are all terms that are complicated in the Ministry, but you just see that something has to happen. That is why I am pleased that there has been room for manoeuvre and that intent/great debt has become compensatory. The Secretary of State has helped to make this possible, and that has helped to make it possible for a majority of the Chamber, but of course that has only come from the realization that we are seeing these parents and that we want an arrangement whereby we do not say next week or after the summer recess that it is not really enough. I am therefore very pleased that this amendment has been embraced and that we have been able to work on it. That's really brought you joy. We have talked to many parents this afternoon and they are of course still of "see first, then believe." I get that. This is, of course, the task of the Tax Administration/Applications and the implementation organisation. I said last week that if I were to make the arrangement, I would prefer to take it out. Now I'm really not gonna slow down, because we just want to start on July 1st. But it's all over now, and I hope they realize that the groove in which they've always had to sit, from actually reasoning and operating out of mistrust, must be reversed. That's probably gonna take a little more time. When it comes to the hardness of the scheme, the resulting damage may be repaired in the safety net. These committees are supposed to look at this and give advice on it. So this summer there will already be situations that, according to that committee, cannot be repaired, but are already being studied. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many affected parents suffered serious consequential damage as a result of undue recovery of supplements;]] [[Whereas generosity should be the starting point of the compensation arrangements;]] [[Invites the Government to deal with what could be considered as damage to the undue recovery of allowances in the determination of consequential damages for injured parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, a note came to the Chamber about intent/great debt. That note is dated 5 November 2019, so it's six months old. Did that note go to the Donner Commission? Because the Donner Committee would look at intent/great guilt but did not do so. I've already said a lot of words about that, but I'd like to know. I received answers to Parliamentary questions on 24 September from the predecessor of this Secretary of State. The answer to question 17 is: "In case of intent/great debt, the Tax Administration must have proof." In that note from six weeks later, everything we could read was: "No four-eyed principle. The M.O. was not used. Someone actually got it really bad for nothing. The consequences were great. We chose intent/greater guilt instead of a misdemeanor penalty, where you really have to prove it and someone can defend themselves, because it was easier in the process." It also says in that note: "The Chamber has never been informed of this." I'd like the Secretary of State to take a look back at the fact that that note is now coming up. It was thus initially not in the timeline that went to the ADR. Did they see that? Did they know that? Why didn't that get any further in the line? In fact, the Secretary of State should have said at the time: "Wait a minute, I gave an answer to questions put by Mrs Leijten about intent/greve guilt that was incorrect. I should have come back to that." It didn't happen. I am not going to waste any more words on that, but it is not good that we are standing here now and that something is coming up that actually supports the arrangement we have made. So I am also pleased that this has been achieved, but it actually fully supports it. But that's been there for seven months. I think we should have been actively informed about this. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the file review. We have just had a debate on this, asked questions about it. In a WOB is the evaluation of Anker, that CAF 16 case. It says there was a soft stop in February 2016. Well, that committee of wise men only looked at the files that saw in the two years before. Why? Why? We know that after these CAF investigations, there have been other types of investigations. They also got other code names: GEO, KEF, all of them. Does that have to be kept out of it, or should we start looking at it? I'd say the latter. I would also like to know the following. Bebegim is now classified as CAF 11-compensation worthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u155	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u156	I'm not done, Mr. Chairman. That was about a cheating host parent. He was convicted, too. The parents have fallen victim to that, but we know so many more of those things: The Pearl, The Apple Blossom, The Pervading Ship. There it is said: no, these parents have made individual mistakes. There's no way there's such a difference, is there? Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many CAF investigations have been carried out in which parents have been classified as a categoral fraud because the childcare institution committed fraud;]] [[further noted that CAF investigations in which this was carried out were considered not comparable to CAF 11;]] [[Whereas a generous approach to the solution of the premium affair, as frequently promised by the Government, requires that these provisions should also be handled generously;]] [[calls on the Committee of Wise Men once again to re-assess the CAF cases considered likely or possibly comparable to CAF 11, making its own judgment based on generosity and without the intervention of the Tax Administration/Applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. There are now many experiences with contacts and personal agents. I have already given an opinion on this, but to make sure that the method becomes so that parents first tell their story, after which the Tax Administration says "tjak, tjak, tjak, tjak, we have this about you," I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the contact between the Tax Administration/Applications and disabled parents has so far been uneven and that the disabled have never had the opportunity to tell them what has happened to them;]] [[Whereas the government must serve citizens, first and foremost those who have been seriously harmed by it;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the situations of the injured must be taken into account in the treatment of undue recovery of surcharges;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in all cases covered by the compensation schemes, the injured parties are allowed to submit their claims before the Tax Administration/Applications sets out its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr. Chairman. I tabled an amendment today. That is a sub-amendment to Mr Omtzigt's amendment. This is about the fact that parents of course have to have the relevant documents, but it also ensures that they are documents that come from elsewhere in the Tax Administration. I mean, of course, the FSV, on which the Secretary of State actually made a commitment. We know that's under investigation. We do not know whether there are similar systems that may have intervened in that situation of the supplement assessment. This gives the law the possibility to add this, if that is the case, to those files. I hope the Secretary of State can embrace this. Then there is the amendment by which I want to make parents the legal counterpart of the administrative advisory committee. I understand that this can in principle be done by ministerial arrangement. A number of things still need to be changed in the amendment. I will, and then I hope she can embrace this. Mr. Chairman. I've got two more motions. They're not surprising considering my input. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many parents have been under control as a result of improper recovery of childcare allowances and have lost control of their finances;]] [[Whereas it is important that these doomed parents should regain control of their finances;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for disabled parents to place compensation granted in a third-party account and to obtain compensation under a third-party regulation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot about the parents, but those parents have been dealt with because they have children and because those children were given child care. These children have not been very much in our sights, but I would like to table a motion on this matter today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that children of duped parents have often grown up in poverty and have thus been partially deprived of their youth;]] [[noting that the lending system for prospective students may constitute an obstacle to further training;]] [[Whereas children of doomed parents should not suffer as a result of what the Tax Administration/Applications has done to them;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a fund to provide further training for the children of disabled parents for which money is to be lent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We asked a lot of questions last week in the first term. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers in various forms, in writing last week and today as well. During the first term of the Secretary of State, there was already a debate on the amendment on the decision-makers' mines. That has now been submitted. I think the Secretary of State can give an opinion on this in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten has already spoken about it and you mentioned that this afternoon we spoke to the parents who were in groups on the Square. I got two groceries out of there. The first was that these parents found it incredibly nice that there was cooperation between the Chamber and the Secretary of State to find solutions. That was already at the debate last week, but certainly also at what was published yesterday. That is, of course, a compliment to the Secretary of State and to Mrs Leijten. It's about ogs. That doesn't mean those parents are all thinking... I said, is that a relief? No, it's not a relief yet. It's really a step forward. We're really gonna work on a solution right now. But that relief isn't there yet. That is the second message, which corresponds to what Mrs Leijten picked up: first see, then believe. In the end, of course, this is about the implementation that must be carried out by the recovery operation. This will be a complex organisation, an incredible responsibility for the Secretary of State but certainly also for all those people who work there. But the step forward we've taken gives us confidence. It is the first step towards restoring confidence that is necessary. I asked a number of questions in the first term, including the role of the Ombudsman, who could be given an independent position there, in order to assess from the citizen's perspective and to be generous in ensuring that this is done in a good way. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is now in conversation and has even sent a letter to the Ombudsman. I would be delighted if the Court would be re-reported by the Secretary of State on how the Ombudsman sees his role. I also asked about the Court of Auditors. The Secretary of State himself gave a little answer: she has no objection to a role for the Court of Auditors. I think it is important that, from this independent role of the Court of Auditors, there should be a bit of supervision of an incredibly complex organisation. We all realize that, but strange eyes can help in getting the best of this organization. That is why I have prepared this motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Secretary of State is in talks with the Ombudsman about how the Ombudsman can follow the child care allowance recovery operation from the perspective of the citizen and the pledge of generosity towards affected parents;]] [[Considering the need to launch a large and complex operation within the framework of parental support, with the implementation of the recovery operation crucial for the restoration of trust;]] [[Calls on the Bureau of the Court of Auditors, on the basis of the audit responsibility of the administration, to consider paying special attention to the Implementing Organisation for Recovery Fees in the next year in the accountability investigation, to report on this on the accounting day and, if necessary and possible, to present an interim report in the autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have also formulated this motion in a procedural manner. It's a question to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u162	Sure. Thank you, Mr. Quick. Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The restoration of trust starts with a legal framework that now ensures that parents can be granted financial rights. In my own term, I said that the saying is that "trust comes on foot and goes on horseback," but that in this case trust with a whole herd of horses has disappeared and probably only crawling back. I hope that today's treatment can be a small step in that direction. But it is a necessary step. Because what I am feeling in this Chamber now is that Mr Snels said that also Mr Snels is a political cooperation that you do not see very often, too little, between coalition and opposition, among all colleagues who, together with the Secretary of State, are looking for justice. Then I think that this legislative proposal provides a basis for this, with the compensation scheme that was already in place, and the extension already foreseen by letter of amendment for parents who have been wrongly set up/greaterly blamed, and now it is said by means of a separate arrangement that you will not be compensated for being hard hit, but because you have been wronged. I understand very well, and Renske Leijten deserves a very special compliment for that which feels very different. That feels very different. In addition, for parents where the law may have been applied but this law may be disproportionate, there is also the hardness of the scheme. I like that. At the same time, it will be natural to see whether, at the end of this calendar year, with those 5,000 people who want to help the Secretary of State, they have spoken as well as experienced and whether, within these deadlines, compensation or a financial arrangement is the result. I have signed two amendments, that of Mrs Leijten, on the set-up/great debt, and that of Mr Snels, on ensuring that these deadlines cannot all be added together. I myself asked a specific question about the Committee of Wise Men, about the demarcations. I know it's the fast lane and everyone still has to be compensated individually, but I'm still looking for some insight into that point. I will do that with caution, because I would like that committee of wise men to be completely independent in their work. I think that's what they're for. But I'm still curious about the answers to my questions. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and my fellow Members for their constructive and open cooperation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u164	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we hope to take another step in a process in which both legislation and implementation have gone wrong. In the implementation, brackets have been found and legislation has caused damage, where this should not have been done and for which the law has not been intended. Mr Omtzigt has already mentioned the need to pay close attention to legislation. We can appeal to ourselves that under our responsibility, but also among those of our predecessors, the law has been drafted in this way. At the same time, we can also learn that if things go wrong in the implementation, we are recovering a great deal of time. That brings solidarity within the Chamber and with the Cabinet is a good thing, but I would rather not have had it and would have preferred to have saved all those people what they have now had to undergo. Mr. Chairman. In that respect, I think today's message is a bit difficult. Anything that promotes generosity, we will support. At the same time, I keep feeling uncomfortable. That is what I said in the first term. A Christmas tree has been rigged with lots of balls: all committees, all rules. They make it a typical bureaucratic whole again, where you should have focused on customization. I really hope that the Secretary of State will soon be able to take care of that customization for the people who have been affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Mr President. This legal treatment should provide justice for thousands of parents, parents who have been in battle with the Tax Office for years, parents who have been unjustly placed as fraudsters or parents who have been disadvantaged by the hard work of the childcare allowance. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I said that I do not have the illusion that this legislative amendment will restore the trust of the parents. I briefly spoke to a number of parents at the Square this afternoon, and that was confirmed. Parents are following this debate. It is an important debate. An important step is also being taken today. But for these parents, this step will only have real value if their file is reviewed and the book can be closed. In Mrs Leijten's words: see first and then believe. Mr. Chairman. In the legal process, I have paid a great deal of attention to the weighting of the criteria when assessing the dossiers. I am referring in particular to the Committee of Wise Men. I have expressed my concerns because I do not think that the law on this issue is sufficiently clear. Of course, the Committee of Wise Men has its own responsibility, but I believe that the parents and the people who guide or support parents should have a solid basis in this law. With the insights I have received from the written replies of the Secretary of State and with the commitment this evening to allow this to continue in the progress report, particularly when assessing individual dossiers, I will continue to follow this closely. I look forward to that further clarification. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten asked a question in an interruption, but also a motion, about directors and the possibility of a third-party account. I will, of course, be assessing this motion later, together with my colleague, who is the spokesman in this area, but perhaps it is good to point out that in a number of other areas we are looking at the approach, the smoking out, the malicious directors, precisely in order to protect people under control. There are therefore a number of actions in progress. But I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks. I think we should be alert to profiteers who enrich themselves at the expense of vulnerable people. Mr President, I will conclude. We have, I think, taken a very important step. I hope, as I have indicated, that we can now get to work to ensure that those people feel that we are closing the book and that people can say: hey, I'm getting a little feeling of trust back. May I wish the Secretary of State, but certainly also the people who are going to do the work in terms of content, great success and wisdom in doing so, and, of course, that part of our confidence that they need. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u168	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No one in this Chamber, and frankly no one outside the Chamber, needs to be more aware of what parents have been doing. But this afternoon I again spoke to a number of people who have just, in recent months, fallen into debt, who simply go to work and then have to go to the food bank in their work outfit and say: I'm picking up some kind of girlfriend. And then the cold will beat you around the heart. We are dealing with this law in order to do justice to those parents and their children; Mrs Leijten was right to say that those children too naturally suffered a great deal. Mr. Chairman. I think this debate and this legal process have been good. I believe that the Secretary of State, who has had a very complicated and difficult social problem on her plate, has listened to the arguments put forward by the Chamber and has also been prepared to accept and embrace some rather firm changes in her legislative proposal. I'm okay with that. I also think the law has gotten better. It is worth complimenting that this has happened, especially in such a first debate with, rightly, not even the easiest Chamber. I would also like to pay particular tribute to Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten for all their work in this area and for the improvements that have been made. That does not alter the fact that I do have concerns in three areas, Mr President. I have motions in two of these areas as well. The first is the speed at which parents are ultimately justiced. We have this law and it has really gotten better, but it comes down to implementation. The Secretary of State intends to compensate 5,000 parents this year. I believe that too, and I also believe that that is well thought out, but of course we still have to see it. I'll keep worrying about that. And the parents need to see it, too. You can also adopt time limits in the law, and GroenLinks has an amendment to tighten it up, which I will also support, but that has not yet happened. Especially these parents know that a law doesn't always become reality. There's a lot in the law that shouldn't have happened but what happened to her anyway. That's the first thing. I'll have a motion on that in a minute. The second is implementation and trust in the Tax Administration. I will not support the law for this reason, but could also have been chosen not to let it be carried out by the Tax Administration, given all that has happened. Mr. Chairman. The third concern is quite frankly a bit new to me as well. I saw that table in the back of the letter from, I think, yesterday. Several colleagues have also asked questions about this. They also know these cases exactly, with all those tropical names, which are mentioned as examples. But I was a little shocked when I saw the opinions of the Donner Committee and the Committee of Wise Men on the comparability and seriousness of the cases. You actually expect, at least that was my expectation, that the Donner Committee of Groups of Parents had said that they were comparable in seriousness and that the Committee of Wise Men had looked even more closely and said that there were a few more groups. Then it's obvious. But one time Donner said they were similar and said the committee of wise men didn't, and the other time it was the other way around. That's what worries me. So I ask the Secretary of State to go into that, especially if you read that it was random and that there were twenty... Then I think: this should not go wrong again. I do not have a motion on that, but I do have my concerns here. I ask the Secretary of State to pay attention to that. Mr President, I come to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas parents have been greatly wronged and many have been waiting for years;]] [[Whereas the risk is that, as in Groningen, it will take many years for all parents to finally get justice;]] [[invites the Cabinet to compensate parents as soon as possible, setting clear time targets, and periodically inform the Chamber of the achievement of these objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. My second and final motion is based on confidence in the IRS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas confidence in the Tax Administration has fallen from many parents to a low point;]] [[whereas the Tax Office expects to have 500 employees for the compensation scheme and some of them still need to be recruited;]] [[Whereas there is an investigation from the Personal Data Authority into ethnic profiling by the Tax Administration;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to take care of employees with different backgrounds and a diverse workforce in the recruitment of those who offer compensation schemes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35468-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish the Secretary of State every success and strength with her further work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u172	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers and the willingness of last week to at least find a solution for the set-up/great debt group. Maybe it's good to refer here to what the Secretary of State said and what was in the memo. People have been accused of being a fraud for ten years, and the IRS can't figure out why that was. The IRS can't reconstruct that. The people who were out here today told their story. I am thinking, for example, of the story of a woman who worked in the financial sector and lost her job, because she was a fraud. Because she had to pay everything back at once, she lost her house. When she lost her house, her child was taken away, because she couldn't take care of that anymore. Then she got seriously ill. And we don't know why we called these people a fraud. It hurt me to see that. I knew those stories, but what hurts me about this whole affair is that we have a tax authority that doesn't get through people's signals. People on the Tax Phone have heard these stories at least 100,000 times. There have been several tens of thousands of victims. They've all been desperate to call the Tax Phone. Handwritten letters: everything was in the file. And we can't set up a service where signals that are really familiar in the workplace are coming up. I've also spoken to tax officials who really told us this. That is not a cultural difference, it is the State that fails in relation to its citizens, for whom it sits there. The second thing I want to say is that I read those memos yesterday. Mr Leijten has described one. Let me describe the other one; I brought them here. It just said, after we asked for it last year, that in August last year it was very consciously decided to continue the recovery with these people, while the Tax Administration knew that they were wrong in a number of cases. These people were in a financial neck clamp. The IRS is showing that. It's the head of legal business that writes that memo. And what's the decision? We keep them in that neck clamp, even if we know what's going on. How do we look back on that? How is it that, when this is clear internally, this does not lead to a change in policy? How can an official in scale 16, 17 or 18 not see that? Mr. Chairman. We have had an extensive discussion here about the two vaco-workers. Let me tell you why I've been working on that. One of these two vaco employees has withheld documents from the courthouse. He's kept pieces from my parliamentary questions. Those were the phone notes. People were told they didn't know that... they should have called the Tax Phone. But they had called dozens of times, and the IRS knew that, and yet it wasn't brought into court. This person has been working in that organization for the past few months. I want to know exactly what he's been interfering with, very precisely. Normally I wouldn't ask, but I'm asking here for a reason. Thanks for getting the pieces 24 hours in advance this time. The fact that you see me here again with little eyes is because I'm going to read those pieces at night. I've only looked at one case: that CAF 16 case. I can't pick out 15 cases. In that CAF 16 case, the order form, which we have through the WOB-pieces, says: stop everything with a so-called soft stop. Everything. But that soft stop is hard, because you couldn't go back. And then what's in the play? That it didn't happen in 2014 and 2015. Yes, if you intervene in 2016, you will stop 2016 and will be recovered 2015 and a number of other cases from 2014 as well. How? Why doesn't the IRS write that honestly in the papers when he analyzes? Even so, the Tax Administration can come to a conclusion that is not mine, but I would just ask that the facts are correct in the reports that the Committee of Wise Men receives. I think I can see here the evidence of why the Committee of Wise Men should have just had the whole file. I am therefore very curious whether we will soon hear or have been told to the Committee of Wise Men that this has happened. Did the Committee of Wise Men know that it was simply said in court that they made those mistakes? If that's not the case, then I assume there are consequences. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for adding people who know about debt relief and on the social side to the committee. I'm curious how that goes, but I really appreciate that willingness. I would like to add my voice to the questions on debt relief. The test is as soon as a parent after a journey, which by the way is extremely emotional for these parents, comes with a result with which he is older out of the problems. I'm just saying, if it isn't, it'll be back in the Chamber, no matter how painful. We have now talked about a lot of poignant cases. I would add that, fortunately, there are cases in this group which are less poignant than what I have just described. I would like to have an information campaign for this group, because people who have been faced with recovery in 2006 or 2007 can now claim this. They often don't know that. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to provide some publicity on this and not just on the website of the Tax Administration. In this context, take into account the recent repair of the rent allowance, where the acquired right after the judgment of, once again, the Council of State is interpreted differently. Thank you for getting that question from the Heritage Inspectorate. It's too bad she can't start in time, but she can. We're looking at the results of that investigation. But please also look very carefully at the Tax Administration itself how the stuff for 2011 can still be found. I am very curious to hear what we are hearing about CAF-ib, 1043, BBO, KEF FSV and whether we will get an indication next week whether this CAF-idea, this way of working, will come back in other files as well. I'm going to look back in the legal history of the Awir, but it was the hardness of the policy. That's interesting. I maintain my two amendments. I will amend my amendment on the front so that the decision can enter into force on 1 July, so that I do not delay. But the room's holding the finger on the wrist, so they're hanging out. The second amendment concerns the completeness of the dossiers. I was disappointed that this was not fully embraced, because I think that, precisely in what we found in the Committee of Wise Men, I found proof that all these documents should also be with the parents and that a decision should be taken on the basis of the whole dossier. We are not talking about the decision, but it has to be taken on the basis of the whole dossier this time. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you very much for your time. I especially thank the parents for their tremendous patience. We will probably put that to the test for a few months until at least a lot of parents find a solution. I believe that this should also lead to some reflection in the Chamber and in the government on how we have dealt with our citizens, for whom we are ultimately doing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thanks also to the Secretary of State for replying. I am pleased that it is her sincere intention to find an appropriate, just solution for all the injured parents. This is also reflected in the appreciation of the amendments, including the important amendment of the SP on the label design/greater debt and the extension of eligibility for compensation. I co-signed it. But I also see it in the way she was speaking to the parents on the Square today. I see the Secretary of State is doing her best to make sure she's on the right side. I hope that if she feels that she is being misinformed by the Tax Office, where really this important cultural change has to take place, she will immediately get angry, and inform the House of the consequences. Then we in the Chamber can continue to think along until all the damaged parents are done justice and compensation has taken place. We are not letting this fall out of our hands. We, MPs, too, must continue to fight for the parents. This debate is not a conclusion. Hopefully it is a step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the questions I asked about the employees from the wrong CAF-time, the technical coordinators who really were there. Hopefully they're not here anymore, but is the Secretary of State sure? Other employees suffered from this in their efforts to do justice to the parents. I asked specific questions about this in the first term and today. I am waiting for the Secretary of State's second term, but I am once again considering all these specific questions, but then as parliamentary questions, because parents should never again be confronted with these former employees or extradited to them. We have to protect the parents. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u176	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'd like to suspend until 8:00, but I'm looking at the Secretary of State if that's enough time. Fine, then I'll suspend the meeting until 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u177	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u178	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to address the outstanding questions and then give an appreciation of the amendments and the motions, in so far as this has not already been done in the letter I have sent, and then conclude with that. The outstanding questions. There was a question from Mr Azarkan on the list of all CAF cases. I can tell you about this. On 17 December 2019, my predecessor sent you a letter. There's an attachment to all the CAF cases that have been added. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er in totaal 167.]] The letter also explains why some names have been wiped out. This was often about the names of childcare organisations or individual employees. That list has therefore been made available to you. Then there is the question by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Van Kooten about the technical coordinators. They asked whether they had been involved in the assessment of the preparatory work carried out in the framework of the first round of advice by the Committee of Wise Men. They have not been involved and are no longer involved and will no longer be involved in the further assessments. They won't be personal businessmen anymore either. Then Mr Omtzigt's question as to whether the Committee of Wise Men was aware of the soft stop in CAF Anker in 2016 and whether the fact that this soft stop was later declared unlawful was also known to the Committee. The answer to both is yes. The Committee of Wise Men was informed about the soft stop in 2016 and in 2017 there was a trial about that soft stop. The Council of State has ruled that these soft stops are not lawful. In the Anker case, the Rotterdam Court ruled on this in 2019 and the case law of the Council of State was followed. Since then, we have indicated that these soft stops are unlawful and no longer applied. I would like to add that if, in the coming period, the Committee of Wise Men will find new indications of group bias, we will look at that again group by group. In this case, on the basis of the information, the Committee of Wise Men considered that this case was not one of the cases directly comparable to CAF 11. Again, of course, with the possibility for the individual parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u179	Then why did the Tax Administration say that there were no soft stops in the years 2014-2015 investigated? Is there a framework in which 2016 was not included at CAF-Anker? I keep thinking it's a really weird case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u180	I think it's a little unclear in this case. The report you received from the Committee of Wise Men refers specifically to those years, but not to the year 2016, which referred to soft stops that were later reversed for the parents concerned. The Committee of Wise Men has been informed of this. He's been able to take that into account in her judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u181	But why doesn't the Tax Administration say in its conclusion that there were soft stops in 2016? It just says here: no soft stop in the researched years 2014 and 2015, because a project was only started in 2015. Then you get some research and only in February 2016, in this particular case, the child care allowance of those parents will be stopped. Then why doesn't it say so in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u182	The report is a brief report on the assessment of the Committee of Wise Men. You refer to the report of the Committee of Wise Men. I do not know why this has not been included in the report, because I have not been to those meetings. Your most important question was: have they been able to look at it, have they taken note of it? They actually did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u183	Is there a more detailed and motivated opinion of the Tax Administration/Applications?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u184	The information that, for example, went from the Tax Administration/Applications to the Committee of Wise Men, in preparation for the activities of this Committee? Or information on specifically this topic? You actually mean 2016 and the information about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u185	No, I'm just talking about the CAF Anchor file. The Tax Administration takes a decision on this first. That will be reviewed and a final decision will be taken. Is that intended decision two sentences, five sentences, ten sentences? Is that motivated and available to the parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u186	I'd like to take a look at that for you. I assume it contains more than two or five sentences, because those files have been carefully looked at. I can see whether we can actually make that available if we do the assessment of individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u187	I would like to hear that before Tuesday and see just one such motivation. Then we know what we can do with that. It's a very important decision. It is also a decision within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act, Article 1.3, so all rights of the Awb can be invoked. That's why I'm just curious how well motivated that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u188	Okay, but we're gonna vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u189	It's about the law. But this is in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u190	Yeah, and there's a general meeting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u191	Yes. This is in the AMvB. And the AMvB gets hung one more time, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u192	Fine, okay. Then I'll go see Mrs. Leijten. Or, first, a response from the Secretary of State to Mr Omtzigt's last remark. Can she say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u193	You mean is it all over for Tuesday? I'm going to try as hard as I can for you. You go one step further in the questions each time. Can I see more about what information the Committee of Wise Men has received? Can I see more of the way she's done assessments? And so on. I understand those questions. I'm sure I'm also willing to take you into judgment. But I do think it is important that the Committee of Wise Men can actually come to its own judgements and come to opinions that may not be directly in line with what I find or what you find. The committee has an independent position in this respect. If you say that you are looking for the answer to the specific question whether the committee has been informed about these soft stops, then I am certainly prepared to look into that. Once again, I am committed to letting the committee do its job. You can assume that the committee is also able to continue to do so, and they are also, of course, looking into this debate and asking us the questions: do we have all the information, do we know all the years and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u194	I get that. But it's the IRS that finally decides. The IRS is also making a reasoned decision, I presume. And that reasoned decision, I suppose, is also available to the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u195	Yeah, but we haven't decided yet. Here's what we've reported. The committee has advised us at the level of the files: which files are or are not comparable with CAF 11, which parents are previously or immediately eligible for the compensation scheme? We are now going to take a decision on this, and these decisions are of course given to the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u196	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u197	But also the fact that it is similar to CAF 11 is a decision. It is a decision under the General Administrative Law Act. Because you can say it's not a decision, but then the outcome of a school exam is no longer a result, because you can still do the deer exams. But that's not how it works in the Netherlands. The results of a school exam are the results of an exam, or an exam, and you can also derive rights from that. And hopefully you'll pass. So the fact that there's a detente doesn't mean the first isn't a decision. And here we have the same thing: here is a decision under the General Administrative Law Act. And since we have often not come across well-motivated decisions in this whole dossier, as we have seen today in the case of intent/big debt, I would like to point out that parents can also see that reasoned decision of the Tax Administration because the Tax Administration finally takes the decision. Otherwise they can't fill out on the back of the form why they don't agree. This is requested on page 4 of the form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u198	I've already indicated how I want to deal with this case. Parents who have received a first message from us that their CAF file is similar to that of CAF 11 and that they are therefore eligible for compensation I would also like to deal with as soon as possible. In this way, I can ensure that they also receive the compensation scheme, that we will calculate it for them, and that only the parents who obviously did not act will not receive that compensation. The second is that I want to get to work as quickly as possible with the parents involved in the other CAF files who may themselves be eligible for this compensation scheme. I want to look with them at their dossier, the re-evaluation and so on. So before we start building further steps, I would like to argue that we should start working with them individually as soon as possible to ensure that their rights are done. And again, the Committee of Wise Men gave the judgment she gave. You asked me, did they get the information? They got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u199	It is a decision that the Tax Administration has sent to the parents, because it sees a sense of justice. Actually, the IRS says you're not eligible for compensation, because we didn't do anything wrong. And that committee of wise men has done so, yes, see Article 1:3 of the General Administrative Law Act on reporting by the Tax Administration. That is the same tax authority that has not been beaten up by both the Council of State and the Council of Rotterdam in this matter, but has simply heard: there has been unlawful action. It just doesn't look good, does it? It's two judgments. That soft stop in February sees the years 2015 and 2014, but the simple fact that it was issued in 2016 makes that group fall out of the selection. I don't think it's a good basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u200	I would like to say a few things about this. No final decisions have been made in these files for the parents. No final decisions have been taken. We have compiled the information together with the Committee of Wise Men. On this basis, it was possible to have a group of parents who were very clearly involved in a CAF file involving bias treated earlier and to indicate as soon as possible that they were eligible for the compensation scheme. That's what we did. With all the other parents, we're still going to work. That's where the files are being assessed. If necessary, this will eventually be submitted to the Committee of Wise Men. The Committee of Wise Men has received from us the information they requested. The committee has looked at this and has drawn the conclusions it has drawn. I think it is right to close this chapter now, especially to look forward and ensure that we help parents as soon as possible. Moreover, I have indicated that if there are any other groups of parents in this case where it seems as if group action has taken place, we can of course always refer them back to the Committee of Wise Men as a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u201	The parents' interests would be handled generously. This was the first chance, and it's gonna go wrong. It's just gonna go wrong. There are 8,000 parents at home with a letter, who have been told: "You are not covered by the CAF 11. Ask if you can be judged again." Because that's what was sent! This is a letter from the IRS. The Tax Administration is free of itself: we have done nothing wrong; you are not compensatable. It just doesn't add up. It doesn't add up with Tonga. It doesn't add up with Anker. I do not know who has limited time or who has put further restrictions on Donner's limitations. But if we don't just get this clear, this is gonna be another festering wound. We need to get rid of that right now. I do not want to say that there has not been any judgment of conscience. I just see that in a case there has been a trial twice in which the Tax Administration/Applications has got a big hit on the nose. Then the Tax Administration/Applications says: yes, but here we did nothing wrong. That is the problem in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u202	You've made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u203	I would like to add one more thing. I think it is important to say that the Tax Administration, in any case, has not indicated that no mistakes have been made here. I certainly didn't report that either. I also think it is important to continue to state that these parents whose CAF file has not been assessed as comparable may still be eligible for an individual assessment. That's what we're gonna do. There is therefore no question of these parents not being eligible. This is not possible as a group, as the Committee of Wise Men has indicated, but it can still be done individually. I am very keen to mention this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u204	Apart from how it has been assessed whether it is CAF-like or not, the crucial question is: what legal effects does this have? We have, of course, had the debate earlier on the five Donner criteria, on the basis of which the Committee of Wise Men must reach an opinion. I can follow the Secretary of State that there can always be an individual assessment. I like that, too. So the road is not closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u205	That it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u206	Exactly, that's going to happen. But of those five criteria, one of the criteria was: have you been treated as a group? In the judgment whether or not you are CAF-like, a criterion is missing, namely: have you been treated as a group? I don't know exactly, because I'm not a lawyer, but it seems to me that at that point this could have legal effects on the position of parents. Because one of the criteria of those five has already been assessed that it is not CAF-like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u207	On the contrary, we have always said very clearly that it is always possible to benefit from the compensation scheme on an individual basis. This is unrelated to whether you've been part of a CAF investigation or not. The criterion of whether you've been part of a group doesn't fit, of course. So, as far as I am concerned, it is clear that, for the subject of bias, the other four criteria alone can be sufficient, whether or not in combination with each other, or in combination with one or two criteria. There is therefore no question of it being more difficult to qualify for the compensation scheme. Parents who have been individually prejudiced may also be eligible for this scheme, as that is the main theme of the compensation scheme.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Again, we have always indicated that this can be done, namely in a cabinet response we gave in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u208	I understand. This bias must then be based on four other criteria, because one has fallen. You can still get a distinction if you were in that original assessment "CAF 11-like or not." You can be lagging behind, because then you have only four criteria on which bias can be demonstrated, generous or not generous? It seems to me at least something to monitor whether there is a difference between individual parents. If so, it will have legal effects and it is particularly important that we know how that assessment takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u209	It is therefore clear that this is certainly not the aim. Parents who have been treated individually must also be able to count on exactly the same treatment as parents who have been treated in a group. In fact, it is extremely important that that happens, because it doesn't matter to the parent whether or not it was part of a group. So we certainly want to take a good look at that and we will certainly give it to the Committee of Wise Men very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u210	It is extremely important for parents that 100% is transparent on the basis of which such a CAF case is or is not considered CAF 11-like. My question to the Secretary of State is whether the parents are now given the reasoned opinion of the Tax Administration and the Committee of Wise Men, and especially of the Tax Administration, why their CAF case is CAF 11-like or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u211	We have already given your Chamber the report of the Committee of Wise Men and it contains their opinions on which CAF matters are or are not comparable. Again, I am particularly committed to continuing work with the parents. We have indicated that some CAF cases are indeed similar to CAF 11 and others are not. We would like to take a step further to get into that particular case, because it is now so relevant for those parents to know whether or not they are eligible for that compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u212	However, for the question of whether or not parents are eligible for the compensation scheme, I think it is extremely important that these parents also have a 100% understanding of the assessment, the considerations, the criteria and the exact considerations on the basis of which the committee, but also the Tax Administration, says "this is or is not CAF 11-like" and "you may or may not be eligible for compensation." So again my question to the Secretary of State: do the parents really get the reasoned opinion of the Tax Administration and the Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u213	Sure. When assessing their files, whether it is an allocation or a rejection, we will clarify the basis on which they are or are not eligible for a scheme. Of course, this applies not only to the compensation scheme but also to the other schemes, because it is important for them, especially when we actually take a decision, to know on what basis the assessment of their dossier has been made. But once again there is a period ahead with that personal businessman, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u214	I'll try again. It's about the reasoned judgment. On this piece of paper, I'm just holding it up for the Secretary of State. There are three sentences. With these three sentences 100 parents are immediately thrown out of this scheme! And those three sentences are not only from the Tax Administration, but also from the committee. It doesn't say anything at all: explanatory notes in the work file show no excessive actions. That's it! That's not a motivated judgment. Let me be clear: this leads to less work. It is less work to look carefully at the groups like CAF cases and really just sit for a few hours, than to treat 8,000 files individually. You have no idea what we're gonna do in that organization. It's gonna be a tragedy. So my question is: how is it that this is the explanatory statement and can we at least get an explanation of half an edge? That's really the minimum. The minimum! It's business with a million-dollar stake at a time. There can really be a half edge or a side full with the reasoning why it is comparable to CAF. We must continue to do so in such a way that the parents understand and possibly also... On page 4 of the form they received, which is not so happy letter of May 28th: if you do not agree, please write to us why you disagree. But they can't, because they can't even see what's been decided. So you want to make sure that there is a reasoned decision within two weeks...Sorry, the legal word is "motivated." Will you make sure that there is a reasoned decision within two weeks why if that rejection of CAF is there, it's a no? The "well" doesn't matter, we all believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u215	We're gonna be a little more specific. If you say 'it helps us or it helps the parents to get more information on why the decision has fallen one way or the other' or, rather, 'why the advice of the Committee of Wise Men has fallen one way or the other', I would like to look at that. It's not about me not trying to make that clear. If you say it's a decision, it's not. Because then we would have the situation that that decision would again be open to appeal and appeal. That's gonna take a lot of time and I think we'll be a lot further away from home. If you say it helps for the parents if they get a few more lines of information on why the one CAF case is or is not similar to the CAF 11 case, then I would like to look at that again. We have included some of them in the letter. As far as I am concerned, it is not desirable to give people a definitive rejection at file level. Because I can't. I haven't looked at all the individual files yet. In order to then re-assess and come to a different decision. My proposal would be to look closely at this additional information and to make it available to you and, of course, to all parents. And we're gonna take the next step and look for an assessment of the individual files.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u216	Thank you. So, in these CAF cases, we get the reasoned decisions of the Tax Administration and the request to the Committee of Wise Men because it has independence and it can ignore itself in order to justify it, so that it is clear from which both the Tax Administration and the Committee of Wise Men came to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u217	No. You are now going to ask if I would like the Committee of Wise Men to do its work again. I'm not gonna ask them that. They did their job and they did it, again, the way we asked them to do it. If you say that you want to have more background to the decision, I can look at it again, but we are not going to do the work of the committee again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u218	This means that in any case we get the reasoned decisions from the Tax Administration, i.e. half a chance per CAF case, of why or not. Because that is ultimately the decision that has been taken. So what are the underlying reasons for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u219	I'd love to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u220	Mr President, I take that as a commitment. So I'm just gonna get that in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u221	The Secretary of State keeps saying that this would not be open to any objection. But they've already been filed. Under Article 1:3, namely the consequence on... What did I just say? Yes: legal effect. That's this. The tax authorities say: we take a decision that you do not get certain rights because that is what we have judged. Not motivated, so it's hard to defend yourself. And then we get the same thing here. All these years, these parents didn't know why they had been dealt with, they didn't get a chance to defend themselves, and at the first chance to do it right, it's such a letter. Yeah, it's a decision, yeah, you can object to it. That's what parents do. And they don't know exactly what the grounds for rejection are. It's a really crooked skate. The Secretary of State says she wants to look forward so badly, and we all want to. But I would really recommend having that conversation with that committee of wise men.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u222	Again, I think I have said it a few times: no parents have been rejected. I really want to underline that again, because otherwise the picture would be with parents who are watching with us that they are. But it's not. I'm moving on to the next topic. Mr Omtzigt asked about the presence of documents before 2011 at the Tax Office. I have already indicated in debates that it may be that the documents before that period or the amount of material that we have at our disposal are not complete and that in some cases it may even be little, especially when it comes to the whole of the old years. We have always said that we therefore want to deal generously with the burden of proof, so what exactly remains to be found, and of course we want to listen carefully to the story of the parent and do so in view of the human dimension. Of course we'll get to work ourselves. We also ask the parent to share information with us and if there isn't, we look generously at it once again with a human size. I will then go to the question of the omtzigt whether all the debts of parents will be gone if they are compensated by us. He asked, rather, if they have their lives back on track. That, of course, is what we want. We can, of course, help by ensuring that we cooperate in a good way in resolving the case surrounding child care, but I cannot promise you in every respect whether all the debts of a parent are gone. Let's say someone's got a whole other, unrelated debt. Of course, I cannot help with this, but I can ensure and cooperate in ensuring that debts relating to the childcare allowance and any related problems are resolved as effectively as possible. Then the question whether there have already been interim reports from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I said in the first place that I had no knowledge of it. We didn't get one either. Above all, we hope to get the final report as soon as possible, but we have not received any interim or previous reports. Then there was another question about the note on intent/great debt. The question was what happened to the note of 4 November and what was done with the advice contained in it. On 8 November, we sent a letter stating that we chose to use the pause button for all the coercive actions that ran around the CAF cases. Following that, a letter was received in February from the Minister of Finance and from me to extend it even further to parents who also felt that they were eligible for re-evaluation. Afterwards, it was stated in a cabinet response that a personal payment arrangement could be offered to parents who still have an outstanding debt. Eventually, of course, as a final piece, this set-up/greater debt is incorporated in the amendment before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u223	I would suggest that the Secretary of State should answer all the questions. Then you will have the opportunity to ask a question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u224	I have one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u225	Then I'd answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u226	Mrs Leijten asked whether the note of 4 November on intent and gross debt was also shared with the Donner Committee. This note was not shared with the committee. However, many questions have been asked by the committee on this issue. All these questions have been answered by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u227	Mr. Chairman. We'll continue with this bill, because that's important to the parents, but this is where my shoes fall out. I ask the Secretary of State for a reconstruction of why this note never went to the Chamber in this form. Then she says something about a letter of resignation. That's what Pieter Ommzigt and I managed to do during the treatment of the Tax Plan, because we heard from those parents that they were being taken off the road and that they were getting paid again. We said if Donner's gonna wait, we're gonna have to stop it. That's what he had to promise. That's where this note came from. Wrong answers to previous parliamentary questions were not addressed. My request was, have Donner look at ogs. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll say that. Then we weren't allowed to ask any more questions, because we had to wait endlessly for that committee. We didn't get an answer to any more questions. And now it turns out that it didn't go to the Donner Committee, the note confessing that it was too light, that it wasn't looked at and that the Chamber wasn't informed that the four-eyed principle didn't exist structurally. That is a note saying: "Dear Secretary of State, an alternative scenario for other CAF cases is that recovery is suspended. We advise you not to choose for this, because such a conclusion would be immeasurable considering Donner." Well, Donner doesn't know this trade-off either. In addition, there are other disadvantages, such as precedents, demarcation problems, the loss of tax revenues and their labour intensity. It was decided in August: we let those parents die and be impounded, even though we know it is unjust. It shouldn't be any crazier. And then this note didn't go to the Donner Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u228	Yeah, I can see it in you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u229	All those times I've asked for it! All those times those parents had to go on television with their troubles! Do you know how they felt last weekend? They really didn't have any hope that anything else would change. It's not working. It's not working. We've been bettin' on it. The Secretary of State has also endeavoured to get that set-up/great debt settled, but we are not informed permanently, permanently. We can't do our job. We can't fix what goes wrong. It's really... I'm... well, never mind. I want a reconstruction of why this note didn't go to the Donner Committee. Why did it stay under the hat? Who decided to do that? There are also decision-making points here that I would also like to know how they were followed. Let's get that for Tuesday, and then we'll talk about it heartily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u230	I would like to join these words. It's hard for me to control myself. This is really painful. Deception/great debt; these are people who have been wrongly judged as fraud. I just mentioned what that means for people: parents who lost their children. And then we ask for this month after month. We have to wait for the Donner Committee, which doesn't conclude anything, and the Donner Committee doesn't get the documents. We're here playing Sherlock Holmes! This isn't a detective! But that's what we've been in this room for the past three years. So I would like to ask, in addition to a story, I assume that it will be promised immediately about who kept this from Donner, also a discussion between the Prime Minister and the President of the House of Representatives on how this could happen. I want a report on that conversation within a week. I'm white hot, white hot that this kind of thing... we're negotiating all weekend because we supposedly don't know. The Ministry has known for eight months! All these eight months these parents are in trouble, they're being evicted. And they know it: it is not communicated to the committees. What kind of work am I doing, Mr. Chairman? I could do something else! So I want you to have that conversation with the Prime Minister and just hear what he's thinking. Then you may take the Council of State, because they think we are being informed. Quod nun! I don't blame this Secretary of State, I'll just say it because she wasn't here in November. So, for the Acts, she's responsible for the state, but I don't hold her responsible for it. But I find this extremely bad of the cabinet. Extraordinary. I therefore expect that discussion and I expect a report from the government on how this could have happened. Because this is exactly what this is about, and then I'm gonna stop doing this why I'm constantly pushing: does that committee of wise guys get all the pieces? Yes, they are entitled to everything, but if the Committee of Wise Men doesn't know that such a piece exists or doesn't know that such a thing exists, isn't it obvious that it doesn't make the right decisions? Because I can push someone in a certain direction with the pieces I give and the pieces I don't give. When I ask, "What piece do you want with it?', I don't know what's going on. That's what happened here. So I expect those two pieces and I expect a commitment from you too, because I'll hear it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u231	Yes. I can imagine that anger very well. I thought: we are going to the end of this debate on a bill with a lot of amendments. But this has now been raised on the spot. I'm always willing to have a conversation when it comes to the Chamber's information position. I don't know if all this will work out within a week, but I will certainly share the feelings that live here with the Prime Minister if he is willing to do so. But for the rest, it is the responsibility of the Secretary of State to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u232	I certainly will. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u233	If you guys need a short suspension, I'll do it, because I can see that emotions are on the rise. I can imagine anything, but I also want to see this debate and the good amendments and motions that have been tabled and so on... All parents are watching and they also want to know what all the efforts you have made in the past period will ultimately bring for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u234	Mr President, I think we can move on. But each time this kind of decommissioned bombs in a debate and then just 24 hours in advance... That is precisely the problem we have with establishing an arrangement in which we can have confidence. I actually requested this piece for last week's debate. Otherwise we could have dismantled this last week and we would have moved on. I share what Mr Omtzigt says. That's why I asked, "How did that happen?" Be open and honest about that. I don't want to rub it on this Secretary of State right now, and certainly not right now, but it's really very painful. Donner would take care of everything. I've been standing right here. Donner did a bad job. I blamed him for that, but maybe he couldn't do a good job because he didn't get the good pieces. That's kind of my emotion now. I think it's not nice for the parents who are looking at home, too, knowing that there have been people here who know about this and who have pushed it back into a drawer. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to try to reconstruct why that happened in the next few days. Have any decisions been taken that are high in the organisation? Did it lie down somewhere? There may be explainable and inexplicable reasons, but please let us know on Tuesday, otherwise every debate will be devoted to these kinds of bombs. At some point we must also move forward, for the parents, for the tax authorities and for ourselves, so that we can do other things again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u235	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u236	Thank you. In that context, I certainly want to try to make that reconstruction. I think it is important, therefore, to indicate what information has been given to the committee on this subject. I just mentioned that this note had not been shared, but many questions have been asked by the Advisory Committee on this subject and answers have been given. I think it's good that we're trying to get both of them out of the water. I'm trying to do that as soon as possible, but you can be sure that we're going to have a good look at that. Again, it is not the case that the Donner Consultative Commission did not have any information on this subject. She has indeed spoken about it and has been informed by us. I have come to the end of the debate on the questions. I would like to propose that we move on to the amendments. I specifically refer to the amendments to which we have not previously given a response or appreciation, i.e. those that are not in the letter. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 13 by GroenLinks. It's called making evidence plausible. GroenLinks asks for a textual change in the burden of proof. She wants to be appointed that not only should be made plausible by a parent why he or she thinks he or she is eligible for an arrangement, but that that work should be done by both of us, by the parent and the tax authorities. The whole change is indeed in line with the approach we would like to follow with the common commitment for parents and practitioners. I have already said that this method, which is mentioned by GroenLinks, is also being followed by us. I see no reason not to tighten the law on this point. I would therefore like to leave the opinion on this amendment to your Chamber. Then there is the SP amendment to point No. 20 over ogs and the allowance. I have already said that I am positive about this. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, of course, but with the SP and all its signatories, I think it is very bad that parents, according to the current views, have suffered in this way under the specific qualification ogs. So I think it is also important to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u237	It's procedural, but that's supposed to be the official meeting here. I had already tabled an amendment that looked after ogs. I think that was part number one. 7. That's gonna expire, so I'm moving in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u238	The Leijten amendment (Doc. 7) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u239	Then there is the amendment to item No. 21 from DENK: "Very poignantly replaced for particularly poignant'. It is therefore proposed to replace the word "very poignant" with "very poignant" in the safety net clause. I share Mr Azarkan's view that the application of the safety net provision needs to be carefully and generously looked at. I am not trying to broaden the safety net clause here, but it is specifically about the term. I therefore leave this amendment to the House's discretion. Then there is the SP amendment to point No. 22, the sub-amendment for the investigation files. That amendment is in line with an amendment by the CDA. You are asking me to add to the amendment that, under investigation file, the question is whether that will remain the term, because I understand that this amendment is still being worked on, including information which has not been added to the dossier, but which has had an impact on the assessment or treatment. Insofar as this is about a piece relating to the case, it is understandable. It concerns, for example, those FSV entries or entries in other systems, which have somehow led to a certain judgment being given, whether or not ogs, withdraw or something else. I understand that very well, but I think we should look closely at the original amendment. Once again, I understand that this is still being worked on, because then it has to be incorporated there. So I can't right now... As the situation is now, I have to advise against it, because I do not recommend the first amendment. But I understand what you are trying to do here, so perhaps you can look at the text of the overall amendment together. Then there is the amendment to item No. 23 about the parent panel. The question is to include in the law that there is a parent panel. That is where the possibility has been created to set more rules. I share the view of the SP that it is important to give the parent panel a good and firm position, so I would like to give that judgment Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, Greens/EFA, This is an amendment that we have also discussed in terms of 'we must ensure that these decisions on the various schemes do not accumulate unnecessarily'. That's not my intention either. I also think it is important to ensure that the handling of parents' files can be carried out within a reasonable period of time. However, there is already a strong stock of about 5,000 notifications outside the CAF cases. But we'll get to work on it as soon as we can. In other words, I welcome the idea that we are trying not to allow the deadlines to accumulate and thus to deal with parents' files as quickly as possible. I would therefore like to give this amendment a Chamber's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u240	The other amendments were assessed in the letter. Fine. Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u241	Mr Azarkan's motion for a resolution 25 calls on the Government to "organise a wide-ranging review, testing all government executive services for professional discrimination." I have already said that I very much agree with Mr Azarkan that discrimination by public organisations cannot and should not take place. You are asking for a comprehensive review of all government implementation organisations. Of course, I am not all involved in this, rather: most of them are not. But I would like to take this proposal back to the cabinet and see if I can look at this subject together with the Minister of the Interior. Because I understand very well what you want, and I also understand very well what you're trying to do. I'm just finding it hard to make a positive assessment of this right now. I can't do that right now, but I'd like to report that I'll take it with me. Perhaps you could also hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u242	I'll hold the motion. Then I'll wait for a letter from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u243	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (35468, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u244	The motion in part No. 26, also by Mr Azarkan, is about excuses by Parliament. That's a motion for yourself. Then the motion to part No. 27 by Mrs Leijten, on how to deal coulantly with the determination of consequential damage to doomed parents. That's what we want. That's in line with what we're trying to do. In that sense, I can give this motion judgment Chamber. It's in line with what we're aiming for in our law. Then the motion to part No. 28 by Mrs Leijten, on the re-evaluation of CAF 11 cases. In my opinion, we have just exchanged a great deal about this in the debate. It is not my intention, and it would not be my proposal, to let the committee look at that again, but rather to move forward. I would therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u245	The motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u246	Sorry, I'm saying it wrong: the motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Leijten's 29 comments on the fact that, in all cases, parents can, in the first instance, do their story, before the Tax Administration takes a look at the findings. This is also the wish we have: to give parents the opportunity to tell their stories and to bring their side of the story to light. I support that idea and would therefore like to give this motion a Chamber of Justice. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 30, including Mrs Leijten's. It invites the government to allow for the loss of parents to place the compensation granted in a third-party account. I said in the first term that I think it is important to look into this and that I want to investigate it. Whether that happens this way or not, I don't know yet. I do not know whether this can be done, because, of course, some of it is also part of the policy area of my colleagues in the field of justice and security. So my request would be to hold this motion until we have been able to see how we can shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u247	Of course, I'm willing to do that. Only, July 1st goes into the law. We are going to vote on the final items on 4 July, if that's all right. The summer recess lasts eight weeks. Then the execution organization, if it's okay, is working hard. So it would be very nice if this could be clear before then. Because if the motion is not necessary and does not have to be put to the vote because something is lying there, I will withdraw it with all my love. But we still have two weeks. So I don't want to ask the impossible, but I'd like to give you this signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u248	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion for a resolution (35468, No. 30). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u249	Again, we'll get to work as soon as possible. Then the motion to part No. 31 by Mrs Leijten, on the establishment of a fund to provide further training for the children of the deceased parents. I have indicated earlier that I certainly want to be aware of what has happened to children in this situation. Not least for that reason I chose to set up a child panel. That will also start soon. I understand the idea of making arrangements for these kids too, in the form of a college fund. I like that, too. I cannot judge this at the moment, because its implementation could, of course, have a huge financial impact. I do know that the Ministry of OCW has appropriate arrangements for this. So I would like to think along with the parents and their children where that is the issue, but I would advise against this motion in this form. The motion in part No. 32 by Mr Snels and Mrs Leijten is a request to the Bureau. Of course, that's up to the Presidium, not me. The motion in part No. Mr Nijboer asked the cabinet to compensate parents as soon as possible, setting clear time targets and to inform the Chamber periodically. I would like to leave this motion to the House because it is our objective to inform parents as best as possible about when their files are on the agenda and to inform the Chamber about the progress of the whole recovery operation. Then I'll get to the motion in part No. 34, the last motion, including Mr Nijboer's motion. He asks for different backgrounds and a diverse workforce to be taken into account when recruiting the employees. I'm always an incredibly strong supporter of that. So we're definitely gonna take a look at that. That is what we must do in our overall recruitment operation in the near future. So that's what I'm aiming for. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for the debate, for all the information we have exchanged. I believe that, with the amendments that have been tabled, we have a law on the basis of which we can actually get to work to compensate parents. I know a lot of them are watching. I hope that this will provide the basis for this. Of course, it is also up to the Upper House to vote on this, and tomorrow, of course, to the Lower House. Not least, it comes after that to good implementation, because with this law and the legislation in question, some of you have just said this; we need to go further. That's what we'd like to do. The employees of Supplements want, together with me, to solve the parents' problems. I ask the Chamber to give us room for this too. And of course we will keep you very well informed about the progress in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u250	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-6.u251	It's an incredibly complicated file. It's also an emotional file, for the MPs, but especially for the parents. They've been following everything from the beginning to, I think, this moment. Here's what I have to say. I heard yesterday that there are complaints to the Chamber that we are doing incident policy. I must say that thanks to the perseverance of the Members of Parliament and the raising of this problem, which might be an incident, this problem has been dealt with. And also that, thanks to the cooperation between MPs and between coalition and opposition, there is a fine law on which we will vote tomorrow. I'm actually very proud of that. Very well done! I thank all the parents and all the staff. We shall vote on the amendments, the motions and the legislative proposal tomorrow.
