ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	The final question is from Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport about a leak in the RIVM coronasite. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Go ahead, Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On Saturday, we read from the NOS that there has been a security breach in the RIVM's infection radar website and that this has been the case since the launch of the site on March 17, and for 60,000 people who have left their data there in full confidence. RIVM had done so to monitor the spread of the coronavirus. In the meantime, it is also clear that you do not need to be a professional hacker to retrieve this data. So you think not only of email addresses and potentially postal codes, but also of medical data that people have left there. The website has been taken offline, but evil has already been done. We think this is a bad thing. People have left their information there in good faith and trust that the government will handle it safely. That is always very important, but certainly at a time of corona, in which we ask everyone to stick to the rules. We also see that RIVM had developed the Infection radar, but that there are other initiatives in the field as well. Why didn't they work together? Wouldn't that have been more effective? I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. How is it that this website went up without any real security checks being carried out? The software supplier says, "I'm going to do that now." What's the surveillance on that? Can the Minister indicate what kind of abuse has been made of this data?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Last Saturday, a security leak was detected in the site Infectionradar.nl. The site was only recently in the air, but is indeed very important because it helps RIVM to monitor the development of respiratory complaints in the Netherlands. The Dutch can sign up and then report their complaints on a weekly basis. That's how you keep a good view. We just saw that Infectionradar.nl became more and more used, so this was extremely unfortunate, you should say. What exactly happened? In the site is an application built into the company Formdesk. That's a request form application. If you changed a number of data in the URL bar when you completed that questionnaire in a certain way, you could use the last completed data for the last 24 hours of other people who had filled in that data, so exactly what you didn't want. What was the data breach? That is that the registration forms for the last 24 hours of 49 other people have been seen. So fortunately not of the 55,000, but of 49 of those 55,000 and of just the last day. We now know from the log files of that company that not even other people have had access. So that was the researcher and the journalist who pointed this out to us. By the way, thank you very much, not only for the sharpness but also for the way in which they dealt with it, because RIVM was given the opportunity to close the leak before it was made known to the world. So that is extremely chic. But it's a problem, of course. Then how did it happen? How come no security checks have been done? That was, of course, my first question. We have figured that out, and as far as we can now find out, we can see that when we develop that site, we have done security checks, pen tests, which have also shown this as one of the safety risks. The company, Formdesk, had to implement a solution to this problem. Of course, that company not only works for the RIVM site, but for many more sites. This demand application is used on numerous sites. So Formdesk has been asked to come up with a solution for that. Some of that has been taken over and some of it hasn't. A double check was subsequently omitted. Is this due to policy or supervision? No, there's just forgotten to run a double check where it should have been. In short: extremely unhappy, but there is a similar act. The people concerned were informed on Sunday evening 7 June via a personal e-mail. Other participants were informed on Monday morning 8 June. Afterwards, RIVM also posted a message on the site about how to deal with it. The AP, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, was then reported. The answer to your question is who is actually the data leak supervisor: yes, that is the Personal Data Authority. That's where the data breach was reported. It was also reported to the NCSC, the Cyber Security Centre. That's also in contact with this supplier, Formdesk. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	The minister says there's been no double check. In that context, I would also like to ask the following question. You ask a company like this to fix something. The company does three-quarters or half of that. Why didn't the company just say on its own: sorry, I couldn't fix everything? So what's the contract relationship with that company like? The Minister says that the Dutch Data Protection Authority oversees this, but that happens when something goes wrong eventually. So what matters to me is: how is it handled internally at the ministry? Because the RIVM is ultimately also the responsibility of VWS. I would also like to know the following. We're looking at the logs. It's just these 49 people. I understand that site is being emptied every day. But how can the Minister be sure that there has not been logged in and that data has been reviewed in the days before? Does he have any records of that? Or does he say: no, we simply can't find out in history whether people in the days before have collected data they weren't entitled to? Mr. Chairman. Then there's my last question. Here we talk about 60,000 participants. The LUMC has the COVID Radar app with 200,000 participants, the Our Lady Guesthouse also has an app. The LUMC does tracking and the Our Lady gives medical information. Why is there every time trying to reinvent the wheel? Why isn't it said, we're looking at how we can get stronger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	When it comes to the question of the contractual relationship, I don't have the answer. I think you'll forgive me. There are a number of hundreds, perhaps thousands of sites that fall under the domain of VWS. If you add all the sites of all healthcare institutions, it's about another 60,000 healthcare institutions. So you will forgive me for not being able to keep track of everything in the contractual relationship. What I do know is how this went wrong. Because I think that was your question: how did this happen? A pen test, a safety check, has been carried out in advance. Then it has been said: this should actually be repaired before you actually introduce it. That solution was partially implemented and then failed to carry out a double check. That's how things go sometimes. That kind of human error is made where people work. I don't think it's any different. It is extremely unfortunate, however, for the people who participate. So they've been properly informed. But this is, of course, extremely unfortunate for trust in the government sites at all. So yes, these kinds of human mistakes often have a far-reaching effect in that sense. That is why it is good to respond adequately. I think we did. I believe that's what RIVM did. It has not only informed the 49 people whose data for the past 24 hours had been read, but it has also informed the other 55,000 people that this was happening. It then instructed the company to work out a solution. That solution is, of course, double-checked six times before it is actually embraced and introduced. Next, the NCSC has also been pointed out, so that it can get back in touch with the company, because of course the company operates several websites. In short, human mistakes are human. Where people work, mistakes are made. Well, here's a mistake. But then it's also about the way you fix it. I think RIVM just does that nicely. What about the log details, exactly? I have been made sure that no more has been understood than this, that no more has been tried to provide access than through these two registration numbers. Don't ask me exactly how that is technical, but one can check that out in that way. Then you ask: why is the wheel re-invented all the time? I really have the idea that this is multiple wheels, because why would you really reinvent the wheel? The RIVM is not going to find something that already exists in another place. So this is really different from the other things you mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	I have two more questions for the Minister. I understand the RIVM has a tracking system and that the LUMC is also about tracking. So they both have the same goal. So we're not talking about tracking, we're talking about a tracking system here. So I would ask the Minister to look at that again with RIVM and LUMC and with the OLVG. My second question is: what structural changes will be made to the Ministry in order to prevent us from having a situation like this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	The answer to the last question is 'no', because it is not policy. You can also have someone who makes a mistake once in a while within a very good policy. And that's what happened here. That's one. Second of all, it's really another thing. It may be a bit of an elaborate consideration, but the Infection radar is about a whole group of people whose complaints you see weekly. The OLVG app is only for people with corona-related complaints. So you can really read something different from that. It is really a different type of app, and also with a different purpose. Because that OLVG app is then also there to provide medical perspective. And at RIVM it's a website, it's not an app at all. So in that respect, too, it is something quite different. But that RIVM website infectionradar.nl is mainly intended as a form of early warning. The question is: to what extent is there respiratory complaints among the population? So that's a completely different background. So it's really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I have Mr Van Gerven, Mr Veldman, Mrs Van Esch, Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Sazias. First of all, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	I think the Minister is very laconical here, because it is quite something. If you're a citizen, you're a part of an infection radar, and it turns out that it's been leaking for more than two months. Doesn't the Minister think that just shouldn't have happened? Period! Because it undermines people's support to fight the corona crisis. They're gonna cooperate, and then it's just gonna have to work. Does the Minister agree? Two. Isn't it also important for the broad consensus? We have the corona apprehension that doesn't deserve the beauty prize either. We also have the starting problems with the GGD's test streets. Isn't it important for the acceptance that what the government provides just works and that these kinds of mistakes cannot repeat themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	In my view, I have already made it clear that this is extremely unfortunate, precisely for the reasons which Mr Van Gerven mentions. So yes, of course. For trust in the government and in websites, it is extremely important that your data is handled with care and ease. Of course, you have to be able to count on it. If I just look at what happened here and how this happened, I have to answer the question whether this has really been a policy issue: no, there has just been a safety check at the front on the basis of all these directives. Then it was found: hey, there's a possible security breach here; you have to fix that and this could be the solution. Subsequently, the company only partially took over the solution and then did not double-check it. That's a human mistake being made where people work. I find it extremely unfortunate, but I am not going to promise here that a human mistake will never be made again. Precisely because that happens, we also have a whole procedure for dealing with it: you have to report it to the Personal Data Authority so that it can monitor it and see what has actually gone wrong on the policy side and what may need to be different. The authority can even fine if it needs to. That's what the supervisor, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, can do. You then mention all kinds of other implementation issues. I think they are all extremely important, but they are completely separate from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	The image of the past few weeks is not beautiful: a Donor Registry, where the data of 6.9 million people have been stolen, trying to develop a corona app in haste, in which privacy holes were shot, and now the Infection radar, where medical data of people may have come into the hands of others than the people themselves. Now I do not have to ask the Minister if he knows the proverb 'trust comes on foot and goes on horseback', but I would like to ask him how he is going to restore confidence, because that is important. Take, for example, donor registration. If you don't fill anything in there right now, from the idea that it's not going to stay safe, then you're supposed to make your organs available. That's quite a consequence if that's because of a lack of trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	That is precisely why it is very good to be precise. That whole donor registration story is about the old system and has nothing to do with the new system, because it is designed entirely on the basis of privacy by design and security by design. The app is not developed in all haste, but is now being developed very thoroughly and was not yet developed at all. What we were looking at then, what was so much fuss about at the time, is: is there anything available in the market right now that we could use at once? The answer to that is simply: no, there wasn't. It was very good that we looked at this in all transparency and concluded that: no, there is not something that you could use immediately at the moment. That's why it's currently being developed by the best and the brightest. It's being tested all-over to make sure that thing is just perfectly safe. That will be safe and privacy will be guaranteed, and otherwise we will not use it. It's as simple as that, and that's how I agreed with your room. So yes, trust is very important. It is precisely because of that confidence that it is good not to mess with the whole thing, but also to be precise about what this is about. This is about a security leak that's been on a site. That was resolved immediately and restored immediately. In the reaction towards people who were involved it was immediately indicated what was going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is indeed very painful what has happened here. I very much blame you for the fact that people's medical records have become public in this way. What is also very painful, of course, is that 8 million medical records have now been made public with regard to the opt-in system. They are easy to understand for every handler without giving a good reason and without giving people permission to do so. We continue to wonder why this is still the case. When are we gonna stop this? What is the reason for continuing to do so at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's a whole different story. This is about informed consent: do I allow the general practitioner's office to also use your general practitioner's information? In order to avoid waiting lists and all kinds of waiting times, which are extremely unfortunate at a time when care may already be overloaded, an automatic informed consent on the part of the use of GP data in the snack has indeed been used. That's very beneficial to patients. In a normal situation, of course, you want people to give their consent in advance. If we had done that here, everything would've gotten jammed. We also need to be a little practical. That's what it is, and nothing more than that. I have explained this well to you, to your Chamber, and also to the Personal Data Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	Okay, this has been discussed with the Personal Data Authority. I think that's it. So at the moment we say: we are breaking the law that we have here; it is not allowed, but we are going to apply that opt-in system as far as the initial period of corona measures is concerned. I repeat our specific question: when are we going to stop doing this? We are not in a situation where we have to make medical records of 8 million people available all the time in this way, without permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	Shall I just inform the Chamber very precisely about that? We are talking to the AP about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	And then the Chamber gets a letter about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	Okay. Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks, and then Mrs Sazias and then Mrs Kuik. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	I am afraid that I must be somewhat annoyed with the Minister by calling in a number of other matters. The Minister himself wants to collect data in many different ways. We now hear about the reservation systems in the hospitality industry, the app is in development, and of course information is also collected via all these websites. Then it is very important that we really handle that data carefully. The Minister says the same thing. But at the same time he said here: yes, it happens sometimes. I literally wrote it down: "Yes, that's the way it goes sometimes; that's personal mistakes." I thought that was very laconic and went too far. It is, of course, about how the Minister arranges for these personal mistakes to be avoided. Otherwise, he asks us all that all these location data are collected and that we say: yes, sometimes it happens that there is another leak. How does he get some kind of external check on this? It seems like it's such a rush job, because he's so eager to get us out of the corona crisis through innovation, that there's not enough time to deal with this really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u24	How does he get an external check on such cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u25	First something about the use of the word "carefully." That's what you used. "Certainly" is also: just say exactly what it's about. There's no one here in this room who's out on location data, no one at all. That corona app we've talked about before doesn't do anything about location data. Maybe it's good to have that, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u26	Not individuals, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u27	No, Mrs. Buitenweg!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u28	That app doesn't do anything with location data. It might be good to underline that. Two, these hospitality records are all voluntary. It's about a check-up you're having anyway, because the only question that could be asked is that I'm talking about it.What if on the night you were sitting here, there turned out to have been someone infected after he was tested; would you like to be informed about it? Well, I think some people say yes to that. And if you say no, you have to say no. That's fine, too. It's totally voluntary. That's a pretty sober, normal use. That was a question from the Chamber. I think it was Klaas Dijkhoff who asked me if I could take a look at that. Then I said, "That's good; let's take a look at that." It's about sobriety. So I think it is good to remain careful when it comes to the question of what it is really about, rather than linking up all kinds of things that are not so much related to each other. In this case, it is a website that has been developed on the basis of the normal requirements that exist for it. That website used a request application from Formdesk in that website. Before it was used, it's a common application; it's really not just used for this RIVM site, it's very well checked. It's very well checked in the front. At that time, it was found that this might be a security breach. So that turned out to be based on a check that was done. Then it was said: then you have to deal with it. It's partly solved, and partly not. Then they failed to double-check it. Of this, I say soberly: I am not going to promise that such mistakes will never be made again, but it is wrong and it is unfortunate, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u29	I think this subject will certainly come back, Mrs Buitenweg. I see you have a lot of questions, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yeah, because my request for an external check isn't over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u31	No, no, no! I know. I know. But maybe it's also good to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u32	Yes. The external check is now of course done. A solution has been devised, and that solution is first subject to an external check. There's another pen test going on. I think I already told you, but that's what's being done. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u33	We're talking trust here. Confidence in government and ICT is not so great among the Dutch population. That confidence has now gotten an extra pinch. The minister says that you shouldn't throw all kinds of different projects together, but it doesn't matter to the Dutch, because it's just: government and ICT, that's not going well. Does the Ministry have access to those young ICT wizards who can hack very well? Before you throw such a site into the air, you must first pass it to hack specialists often be that young people send it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u34	I don't think we're employing hackers. We now employ all kinds of people and sizes, but I don't believe we have hackers in service. But the RIVM, because that's the site of, just has its own CIO, a chief information officer, who within the RIVM has the final responsibility for the information policy. So that's settled in itself. When you launch a new website, all kinds of checks are then done, especially by externals. Pen tests, penetration tests, are also being done to see if you can use the ICT product we are developing here in a different, bad way. Those are usually external tests. In the solution that Formdesk has now proposed to actually close the leak, the CIO of the RIVM has said: first we are going to present it to outsiders. So that's tested by the type of hackers you have in mind, I think, so by people who do pen tests more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA. No, Mrs. Sazias, Mrs. Van Brenn has been here. No. We simply need to introduce a longer Question Time and then allow more questions. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'm just gonna stay here and keep feeling a little uncomfortable. We're dealing with a minister who loves gadgets. One app after the other is introduced and then a bit disappears. What the common denominator in it is that private companies have to build something, often with people volunteering, and that it is very sensitive information, namely your medical data. So I really don't understand why the highest security checks are not enforced in advance, during construction and at the time the product is delivered, precisely because this type of sensitive information is involved. That's what we saw at the corona app. That's what we're seeing in the infection radar now. And so there are other things in development. If the highest standards are not respected, and this is now the case, then what can we rely on as a citizen and as a consumer, of which you need the information and the help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u37	What this is all about is that that check has been there. That check just showed where the problem was. It was also said to the company: make sure you get this solved. What didn't go well then is the double check. I don't know what supervision of supervision will solve there. This is just a mistake that's been made. I'm afraid mistakes will continue to be made. All you can do is arrange everything in advance as best you can. Especially in the case of technical solutions which are particularly sensitive, the checks in advance must of course be done extremely sharply. The solution that will be invented here is already being proposed by the company... is of course going to be double-checked six times before it goes live again on the site, so before the infection radar actually starts to function again. In short, I simply agree with you. I just don't think there's anything left to put on top that's gonna prevent human mistakes from ever happening again, because that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u38	We're looking at digital solutions in this world. It would be strange if that were not the case; in principle all support for this. But then it is especially important that the government's digital solutions are extremely reliable. In that sense, I was just disappointed by the Minister's reply. He says, "I'm not gonna change anything, 'cause it's not policy. The Minister also says that mistakes can always be made. Well, in the financial world, there has been the four-eye principle for many years to prevent that kind of thing, for example. It's just been reported that the Ministry doesn't employ ethical hackers. So I would have liked to ask the Minister if he could come to the Chamber with a letter to clearly explain why he thinks there is no need to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u39	The question is, could you have done some extras here to avoid a mistake? I think the answer to that question is simply no, because we have already built in that check. Then we're gonna double-check it. And you will not, with any policy change, avoid making a mistake in the final control of whether the solution offered actually took place. It's just a human error taken on its own good, tight policy, which contains a lot of checks and double checks. Where a hundred-eyed principle applies, human mistakes can still be made. I'm not going to avoid that with any policy changes. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
