ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 34864, the Supplementary Law on Soil Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as in the debate on the Environment Act, we begin with a preliminary remark in the context of our integrity policy. Indeed, I have been involved both as a deputy and as a dike count in the past in the preparation of the Structure Vision Underground, called Strong, called the three-dimensional equinox of the NOVI. Strong is basically independent of this bill, but I thought it would be good to report it to you: I've never had anything to do with this bill. Mr. Chairman. After the adoption today probably, but of course we don't quite know that yet from the Introduction Act Environment Act, the First Chamber will now be discussing the four supplementary laws on noise, soil, nature and land ownership in the course of the following weeks. In fact, these five laws, together with the corresponding introduction and supplemental decisions, can be regarded as major amendments to the Environment Act. The soil is the soil of our existence. That was once the title of an investigation report. In fact, a brief summary of the increasingly important role that soil and subsurface play in the spatial development of our country. From drinking water raw material to soil energy and ultra-deep geothermal energy, from water storage in the context of climate adaptation to the supporting function for housing, from soil descent to housing of pipes, cables and pipes, from nature restoration to mining and gas storage. Monitoring and evaluation are of the utmost importance here too. My group asks the Minister what benchmarks will be used specifically in this monitoring. Mr. Chairman. The main issue is the present bill on the incorporation of the Soil Protection Act into the Environment Act. The objective of soil policy remains unchanged, namely to ensure the use value of soil, both in terms of solid and liquid components, and to facilitate the sustainable use of soil functional properties. In short, optimal use and maximum protection, the adage of the Environment Act. Or reworded: guaranteeing quality in conjunction with giving space for development.You can hear it formulated by the Brundtland Committee in 1987. This balance between exploiting and protecting is secured by the interrelation of three pillars. First of all, the protection of soil against new contamination and degradation. That pillar is clear. Further pollution or degradation is prohibited and immediate action should be taken in the event of an accident or unusual event to control the resulting human and ecological risks. Thus, through duty of care and general rules at national level, protect prevention, sometimes with room for additional rules in local authorities, which also makes enforcement even more important. Pillar two involves considering soil quality in the consideration of the quality of the physical environment in relation to the balanced allocation of functions to locations. In other words, the standards for permissible soil contamination, although that sounds a bit strange, are determined by the current or intended use of the soil. This system of standards protects human health and the environment. In other words, we are going to do so, but we are going to do so with respect to pillar one. Responsible use, therefore, with administrative balancing space for municipalities, and soil policy becomes more area-oriented instead of destination-oriented. On the previous point, I will come back with a more detailed question, but first the third pillar. The third pillar is the sustainable and efficient management of the remaining historical pollution and degradation. That is actually the continuation of the line that has been established many years ago that not all contaminated soil always needs to be fully excavated from Lekkerkerk, but must remain actively under control and actively managed. As we do today, there are unacceptable risks to health and ecology. We have of course all read this from the twelve provinces and 29 large municipalities to all 355 municipalities. Although, as has been said, the main orientation of soil policy remains the same, there are shifts of emphasis in the approach: from clean-up for environmental hygiene reasons to setting rules on activities in the environmental plan. This means the introduction of an activity-oriented approach, from centrally regulated to more decentralised administrative balancing areas. It is also expected that there will be significant savings on the costs of soil research if municipalities have their soil information in order. This could mean that soil research is only necessary at suspicious locations. Against the background of this mentioned shift of emphasis, the VVD Group has the following questions. The government notes several times that the new legislation should not only lead to protection but also improve the quality of the physical environment. How does the new soil regulation, from project-oriented to area-oriented, contribute to this? This point has already been addressed in the written exchanges of views between the Chamber and the Government, but the members of my group are still keen to hear the Minister's clear view on this issue during the debate. The environmental vision and the environmental plan form the basis for the approach to the three-dimensional physical environment. This bill, as mentioned above, only introduces the Soil Protection Act into the system of the Environmental Act, but the overall policy relevant to an integrated and responsible approach to soil and subsurface is contained in a number of structural visions, policy notes and agreements. In the explanatory statement, the government discusses a number of laws, parts of which will pass to the Environment Act, such as the Mining Act and the Unconception Act. What is the planning and what are the components? The VVD Group assumes that these laws will continue to exist in a slimming form. That is the point we are asking the Minister to make. But there are more policy pieces, such as the National Structure Vision Underground, the Drinking Water Policy Note, the Structure Vision Tube Pipes, the Water Management Agreement, climate policy and so on. Is it the intention of the government that parts of some of these agreements are likely to be included in the environmental law system, such as Bal or the BBL? Mr. Chairman. Assuming that historical contaminations, which are known as emergency sites, have been repaired or controlled, have been in operation since 1980................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. For unexpected, previously unnoticed, high-risk soil contamination, the random find has been introduced from the idea that this is not so common. But new insights show that there are still a few more undesirable substances in our soil, such as lead and some other emerging very worrying substances. And then, of course, you come to the current pfas problem. The Government notes correctly that it does not in principle have any impact on the Soil Supplementary Act, which focuses mainly on the restoration of historical soil pollutants. I quote the government: "If, as a result of the problem of PPPs, there is a need to adapt legislation in the future, this will be incorporated into the legislation in due course in accordance with the regular procedure." According to the government, there is in fact no shift in the distribution of responsibilities. "The polluter pays" is maintained. Mr. Chairman. Technically-legally that is entirely correct, but in practice the municipalities understandably are concerned about the financial consequences. Are these contaminated sites going to be subject to care obligations under the guise of new cases? Then it's up to the municipalities. But the Empire has never banned or warned against these substances in the past. Could the Minister please go into this a little more in depth? It indicates that it is in conversation with the fellow governments on the whole breadth of this type of follow-up agreement and our question is how far these talks have progressed. Mr. Chairman. Then the aspect of "knowledge." We have also paid a great deal of attention to the introduction law. Knowledge is also essential in the management and use of soil and subsoil. This concerns the development of knowledge, the dissemination of knowledge and the application of knowledge in practice. And that is even more important in soil and subsurface than in surface space. You can only do something right or wrong in the soil very often and mistakes are often impossible to fix underground. How are these most necessary knowledge components structurally secured, the VVD Group asks the Minister. In the reply and in the further reply, the government speaks of exploring this point, but the word 'explore' worries my group at this stage. What exactly is the situation with regard to knowledge assurance, is our question. That question has a direct relationship with feasibility and enforcement and then you will of course come to the piece that was published yesterday and which has already been communicated a lot about. How does the Minister relate this, particularly where the soil component is concerned, to the great concern in the relationship between knowledge on the one hand and licensing and enforcement on the other? That is what we are talking about today. The guidance of the Structure Vision Underground, the government writes, is sustainable, safe and efficient use of soil and subsurface. I told you, with a balanced balance between utility and protection. Key issues here are the connection of subsurface and upper ground through three-dimensional spatial planning, the application of the water system approach, good cooperation between all authorities and the involvement of the environment. Does the government agree with the members of my group that you should be talking about 4D spatial planning? Where that fourth D is the factor of time. In any case, I did not read anything about it in the written procedure. Indeed, the order of use of soil and subsoil is extremely important, especially in the pre-defined integrated approach to use versus protection. It is a crucial point in the knowledge programme for us. How does the Minister feel about this and can she promise that this point will be taken into account? Mr President, I shall conclude. I would like to thank both the Minister and all the officials involved for the much information we have received from this supplementary law. As always, the members of the VVD Group are very interested in the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I call Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Once again, the CDA notes that on 27 and 28 January this year we, the First Chamber, debated the intention of the Environment Act. This intention also applies to this Supplementary Soil Act and the Supplementary Soil Act. For the sake of clarity, we refer to that debate in our contribution. The CDA recognizes in this bill, see the principles of the Environmental Law, policy space for local authorities to make local considerations. However, the Empire will set limits on this within the new system by means of instructional rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. The PvdA Group has also indicated this in the noise bill. With the instruction rule, the Empire ensures that the municipality lays down rules in its environmental plan or vision that prevent unacceptable health risks from arising when allowing a soil-sensitive location. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, the CDA wishes to focus on six themes which focus on implementation, feasibility and efficiency. Those six themes are: 1. the emergency sites and in particular asbestos, 2. the pfas, 3. lead, something on which the VVD Group has already gone, 4. drug dumping, 5. peeing and 6. finance. First of all, I will deal with the emergency sites and, in particular, asbestos. Agreements have been made with the local authorities in the Convention Soil and Substrate 2016-2020 on how to deal with emergency locations. The restructuring operation is expected by the government. By the end of 2020, most emergency locations throughout the Netherlands were controlled. Their approach will be finalised under transitional law. In the plenary debate, too, the CDA asks whether the necessary asbestos reductions have been carried out, in particular in Gelderland and Overijssel, and whether there is still a need for state resources for their implementation in the transitional legislation. After the entry into force of the Environmental Act, we believe that asbestos floorings will still be necessary, for example the working stock as reflected in the cooperation agreement Asbestos sanitization notice 2016-2022, which will last two years after 2020. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State is in consultation with the Province of Overijssel on the implementation of these reorganisations, as the Minister also states in the reply, and its financing. What's the status on this? Can the Minister promise that the Empire will make available the necessary budget for implementation? Question 6 of the CDA from the written round of questions on asbestos in Gelderland has not been answered. That's why I'm coming back to it now. The Minister does not know whether asbestos reductions are still needed in the province of Gelderland after 2020. However, the government indicates that any clean-up sites remaining at the end of 2020 will be included in the agreements on soil resources after 2020. To what extent can the open locations in Gelderland be involved? Are there any other emergency sites outside these two provinces that ask for state funding in the implementation? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Then the second point, PFAS. In view of recent developments in the field of PFAS, the CDA asks whether the Cabinet shares our view that many possible emergency locations may not have been addressed yet. Mrs Klip-Martin also replied. Can the Minister answer the question of how many emergency locations it expects? What is the indication of the necessary costs? Moreover, can the Minister promise that these costs will also be paid by the Empire by setting new national standards and will not be passed on to provinces, municipalities or water boards? In general terms, agreements have been reached with the local authorities on how to deal with these emergency locations in the Bottom Covenant. The existing reorganisation operations "are expected to expire; by the end of 2020 most of them will be completed under transitional law," the Minister said. But in what way are the PFAS hotspots or the possible PFAS hotspots displayed? Then the third point, lead. Diffuse contaminants still require the necessary attention. However, this requires a different approach to the traditional case-based reorganisation obligation. Lead, for example, requires a different approach, because the traditional, case-oriented approach does not meet there again. I think we can agree on that. That calls for local customization. For lead, a number of municipalities and provinces have carried out inventories and action programmes are being drawn up. This was done, for example, by the municipality of De Ronde Venen and the province of Utrecht. Recently, a survey conducted by the NOS among 355 municipalities to which 217 municipalities responded showed that 165 municipalities do not know if there are any lead water pipes left in their own building or in their municipality. Nearly 100 of these municipalities do not know whether they own buildings equipped with lead water pipes. According to the Health Council, between 230,000 and 460,000 people in the Netherlands still drink water from lead water pipes, which are also partly in the soil. What is the Minister's approach to getting the lead out of the ground? Then drug dumping. In our view, the state policy on drugs has negative effects, including drug dumping. With regard to the disposal of drug dumping, given the responsibilities and the prevention of potential harm to public health and the environment, there is a responsibility for the Empire. The Empire has also made funds available for this, for 2015, 2016 and 2017 about 3 million. But what is striking is that there is under-utilisation in the financing scheme, about 1.2 million. We find that special. The question to the Minister, through the President, is why a kind of co-financing measure has been chosen and whether this is partly a reason for under-spending. What else is the reason for underspending? For the period 2019-2024, the cabinet is now structurally releasing 1 million per year on its budget for direct costs of cleaning up drug dumping. With the funds made available, private landowners will be fully compensated, and that is good. Local authorities are also compensated for the financial consequences of drug dumping, the CDA asks the Minister. The fifth point is to avoid peeing. The CDA has asked written questions about peeing, often with a view to a good cause: nature development and recreational value. It is important for citizens in the vicinity of those pools to know who is responsible for allowing deep lakes to be filled with lightly contaminated soil, with the aim of developing nature, but also to know who the licence holder is. In addition to the general rules for the application of soil or dredging soil which apply to the use of deep lakes as an environmentally harmful activity, following amendment by the Supplementary Decision soil in the Act activities environment, there is a permit requirement for the discharge activity, coupled with an EIA assessment obligation and a permit requirement for the use of the restricted area activity. The water manager is the competent authority for both permits and thus responsible for authorising the pollution. For regional waters, that is the waterboard, for national waters that is the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State or Rijkswaterstaat. The licence requirement and the EIA assessment obligation are new in relation to the current rules, which now includes a block exemption from the licence requirement for land and dredging applications. The CDA supports this change. In order to avoid a deep lake, an ex ante assessment in the form of a permit and an EIA assessment obligation is desirable in our view, partly because of the potentially large impact on surface and groundwater quality. With the authorisation requirement there is a possibility of objection and appeal and, in our opinion, location-specific rules can be included in the permit. In addition, the EIA assessment obligation ensures an integral assessment of environmental aspects. How does this work in the implementation of laws and regulations? Recently, a de-sanding lake near Alphen was in the news. It would be half a million tons of granules. Has an EIA assessment been carried out and can the Minister indicate whether there is a danger to public health because the granules could spread via water? If our laws and regulations are of sufficient quality, I ask the Minister. Is it waterproof or is it not effective when it is implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u6	May I ask Mr Rietkerk the question: you agree with me that there will be an EIA assessment obligation. The Commission for the m.e.r. and Investico have also indicated that the EIA's assessment obligation does not really lead to an EIA. In this case, do you not think that there should perhaps be an EIA obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u7	I understand that the new legislation includes an EIA assessment obligation. Can the Minister confirm that? The legislation does not yet exist, so that is also in favour of voting in favour of the Environment Act and in favour of this decision, because then there is an EIA assessment obligation. I believe that we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the CDA are in agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u8	I think that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would be more in favour of an EIA obligation, so you should make an EIA anyway, because there are clear signs from the EIA obligation that in 99% of cases an assessment does not lead to an EIA. In the end, of course, it is about whether you actually make the environmental impact assessment. In case of an EIA assessment obligation, you will only check whether it is necessary or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u9	However, making an EIA assessment mandatory will also show that all environmental aspects are taken into account. Then you will be able to assess on that basis whether an EIA project decision is needed, or a plan decision around EIA. Or it's not necessary, because it's already been included in the application. So an EIA obligation goes a step further. We say that the EIA assessment obligation in the new legislation already goes beyond the legislation currently under discussion. That appeals to us. I am actually asking the Minister whether this is sufficiently waterproof in the new legislation and whether it is effective. Before I conclude, I refer to the knowledge and authorisation, supervision and enforcement section, also in connection with the ILT report, and to the questions and comments made by Mrs Klip-Martin. I'll finish with the finances. Finance is needed for implementation. All these emergency locations and topics that the CDA has mentioned call for resources from the government. Finally, can the Minister promise that the latest progress report on the handling of the wallets will provide insight and overview on the use of state resources, so that we have an effective and feasible legislative proposal? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. The uncertainty of the Environment Act also extends into the supplemental laws. The SP is deeply concerned about the impact of the administrative balancing area that is being created. Wrong choices can have consequences for the environment. And they can't be reversed. Mrs. Klip mentioned that too. The increasing knowledge of, for example, highly worrying substances and potentially very worrying substances, and in particular the catastrophic effects these substances may have on the living environment, calls for early action. In our opinion, this does not fit in with a system of administrative discretion. Can the Minister reflect on this, partly in view of, for example, the obligation to minimise these substances? Does the Minister recognise that this creates a great risk to the environment, because this matter is very complex, as the Minister and I both know from experience? Others also talked about the knowledge. If so, how is the Minister going to ensure that this necessary decisive action is actually carried out by the competent authorities and that it does not take years to look back at what happened again? Then it's too late. In this context, I would also like to highlight the risks to soil and soil water in particular as a result of undermining. The combination of municipalities in financial weather, limited knowledge, criminals with well-stocked pockets, unclear legislation and room for administrative consideration are a dangerous cocktail at local level. After all, there is more money involved in waste fraud than in drugs, I would just like to say once more. Has the Minister discussed undermining and its risks with her colleague for Justice and Security? If so, what is the concrete outcome? What appointments have been made? If not, isn't it high time to do so? Would the Minister also consider it a good idea or a good suggestion on my part to inform the Regional Information and Expertise Centres or the National Information and Expertise Centre on issues of soil-related environmental fraud, which are topical and at the time? If there are concrete signals, would the Minister not want to wait until the consequences have expanded, but would he not want to intervene immediately? Is the Ministry set up and prepared to act on such signals? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. And another question: shouldn't the Strategic Environment Chamber, for example, have a role to play in monitoring and evaluation? I am also asking because I know from my own experience that I have been allowed to sit on behalf of the IPO that the signals that come in there are sometimes delayed in policy or to ministries. As far as I am concerned, it should be possible to do so more quickly. In the further reply, the Minister states that there are no outstanding points between the domes and the Empire. My question is: is it only about noise or also about soil? Does the Minister say that there are no more doubts as to who will carry out what tasks and powers from what point in time and how? And does she say that there are no more points of dispute about its financing? I would like a clarification from the Minister on that point. If the Minister says this so firmly in her answers, does this mean that we will no longer receive letters from individual domes with 'there is too little money', 'we have too many tasks' and 'the tasks are unclear'? Is that settled now? Colleagues have already referred to this. We've got the clean-up. Mr Rietkerk mentioned lead, and I myself have experienced diffuse lead in the soil. That's another point that's going on right now. We have asbestos, we have PFAS and we have very worrying substances in general. There's quite a bit of it! Is that being pushed forward or is that really clear? Mr. Chairman. Then something about the implementation by the environmental services. Not all places in the country have the same enthusiasm for environmental services, we can say when we look at their origins. That's not a judgment of value, it's just a determination. This may stand in the way of the execution. That's nothing new either. In some parts of the country, environmental services are still seen as above-imposed partnerships and this cooperation has still not been fully implemented. In this respect, I am therefore surprised that the Minister's reply on efficiency gains is reflected in the Mans Commission. Indeed, there has been a lot of development since 2007-2008, I would like to remind the Minister. To give just a picture: municipalities and environmental services were initially called, bearing in mind Mans, for the creation of a service for the integral execution of tasks, including construction and housing tasks. When that was then implemented, that same government performed it, I have to say, to come up with a plan to privatise the construction tasks once again and to demolish those tasks from the environmental services. That is a lack of consistent policy. Municipalities and environmental services were left with the costs, because they had already arranged integration. To take back to the Mans report and say 'look at the efficiency gains', I think that is a weakness. I personally am convinced of the added value of environmental services, but they should not be countered. The same applies, for example, to asbestos tasks. When a municipality refuses to make a reasonable contribution to a careful implementation, which is high quality, the environmental service lags behind with the problems, both administratively and in implementation. Then there is a legal obligation, but the level of implementation is in turn customised. Unfortunately, the cases in which the budget is leading, and not the quality of implementation, are also easy to identify in practice. This creates a paper reality of quality without being supported by practice. As a result, major risks are being run, which only become public again in the event of emergencies. These aren't the tailor-made and the consideration room the Minister is looking for, are they? Mr. Chairman. The laws in relation to the Environment Act are full of defining standards, such as "significant" and "significant." You can go anywhere with that. The case law will therefore have to implement these standards. In the meantime, there is uncertainty and irreparable damage to our environment. In this context, it is of course also important to mention the DSO. When will it become clear whether and to what extent and when soil information will be included in the DSO? I have just mentioned a number of examples of substances that are becoming more and more known about, so I think the urgency is only increasing. Is it not surprising, therefore, that the starting point of this whole operation is to provide an equivalent level of protection, albeit with the introduction of the administrative balancing area, that risks are included that this level of protection is not being achieved? The question is, of course, why this whole thing of regulating the same level of protection, but with more risks of failure? Why, why, why, then, would be the pride I would like to present to the Minister again. Finally, a question on the application of innovative materials in areas affected by soil decline. That's a real problem. I have asked for this in writing twice, but the answer will not come, so I will only do it a third time. These areas face enormous costs for their infrastructure. It is simply much more expensive to build, maintain and manage infrastructure in these areas in a good way. You're not gonna make it with what we already have. The question that I have asked twice, and which I am now asking for the third time, is: is the Minister prepared to allow the use of experimental building materials in areas with soil decline, where in the built-up environment infrastructure management and maintenance is really up to at least twice as expensive as in areas with solid soil? I have asked for this in writing twice. The answer I get then is an answer about recycling. That wasn't my question. My question is: is the Minister prepared to think along these lines? Experience in practice is vital to keeping these areas viable and affordable. On the basis of the current legislation, as well as the proposed legislation, it is impossible to gain the necessary experience and to allow for further development into a product that becomes applicable in a regular manner. Is the Minister prepared to allow areas with soil decline this experimental space? That is my specific question. Then I'm really finishing up. The objections I have to the Environment Act, namely the creation of uncertainty by graying what is black and white, also apply to me in full to the supplement law soil. I just outlined that. Much is being upset to achieve a comparable level of protection, introducing additional risks. In addition, there will be a stream of court cases for the judiciary to build case law. You're gonna need it, because that gray's gonna have to turn black and white somewhere in the next few days. This seems to me, as I said earlier on the Introduction Act, to be illogical, ill-thought-out and therefore undesirable as far as my group is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. Rivers, ice, sea, wind and man have had great influence over the centuries on the origin of the soil of the Netherlands. These influences and the geographical location of our country have ensured that our country has a wide variety of soil types. Our food production, our drinking water, living and recreation, without the soil, it is impossible to imagine. But soil also plays a crucial role in the cycles of organic matter and nutrients. So the supplement law soil is about the land on which we live, live and work. The landscapes created because of that variation in soil types mark us at home, where we come from. Someone born on the sand, on the clay, or who comes from the peat, that makes up for who you are as a human being. With this involvement and knowledge of soils, I have studied the supplement law soil. And then there are three topics that I would like to focus on in this debate. These include soil pollution, legal certainty and enforcement. Starting with soil contamination. Whatever I said in sound, also applies to soil. People's health is very important to our group. People should be protected as much as possible from contaminated soil or its indirect or direct consequences. With the Environment Act, all municipalities are responsible for tackling soil pollution. Our group is concerned about this approach. The Advisory Committee on Environment wrote in an opinion to the Minister: "The expiry of the final decision after the implementation of soil restoration leads to undesirable legal uncertainty. This may also be a problem with the transfer of ownership or other acts of economic law. In the current situation, contaminated sites are designated pursuant to Article 29 of the Soil Protection Act and recorded at plot level in public registers by the Land Registry in accordance with the Public Legal Restrictions Act." In the current situation, the Board also issues final decisions after the completion of a reorganisation, which are thus made known in the registers. My question to the Minister is: how does the Minister respond to improving the awareness of soil degradation in the Soil Supplementary Act? How are statements on the fact that soil remodelling has been carried out recorded? Is that in public registers at the Land Registry? What about the awareness in the Digital System Environment Act? Can we read all that in there, too? Mr Verkerk already asked questions about what we can or cannot find in the Digital System Environment Act. There will always be contaminated sites that are not yet known, that is a reality. The advisory committee advises to also make the municipality responsible for the awareness of what we call the random find. The Committee writes that in the Supplementary Law on Soil, it is unclear how far the responsibility of the municipality extends, when it comes to accidental findings of soil pollution. After all, the municipality is at the point of management and rehabilitation, but at the same time the province is ultimately responsible under the Groundwater Directive on the basis of "prevent and limit'. My question to the Minister is whether responsibilities are now well arranged in all cases, even in the event of an accident. Is it clear in all cases whether the authority is the municipality or the province? In the debate on the Environmental Law Introduction Act, it was agreed to monitor progress annually. Can the Minister undertake to explicitly include in the monitoring the experience with the Soil Supplementary Act and in particular the experience in practice with soil contamination and with the distribution of responsibility? Let me now turn to my next topic: legal certainty. For companies wishing to invest, it is necessary for the government to provide certainty about how it deals with the acquired administrative balancing area. Previously, we have seen opinions, including from the Advisory Committee on Environment, to include in the explanatory statement that municipalities are explicitly given consideration to laying down their own policy rules, also in order to promote the possibility of comparing unforeseen initiatives. These policies gain strength when they are consistently translated from the integrated environment vision. The same applies to the use of soil rules. My question to the Minister is: how can the Minister promote legal certainty for citizens and businesses? Can it comment on the desirability of establishing policy rules so that equal treatment can be achieved in a municipality? With increasing climate change, it is becoming increasingly important that the responsibilities for managing groundwater quality and managing groundwater quantity are clear. Under the Environmental Law, the province defines the policy frameworks, the strategic objectives and the challenges for water systems, even if waters are not under the control of the Empire. This is then developed in mandatory water programmes, including water quality aspects. I achieve signals that it is not always clear to all authorities who is responsible for what. My question to the Minister is: is it clear to all competent authorities who is responsible for which waters, when it comes to groundwater quantity, but also groundwater quality, not only in waters, but specifically in groundwater? Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to comment on the bottom descent, which the SP has just drawn attention to. My point of view is a slightly different one and is more about the problem of soil decline. It's a big problem. It is known that the soil decline is actually taking place in peat meadow areas. But also due to gas extraction and mining, the soil, for example in the North Netherlands, is falling around Groningen. But cities in coastal areas are also very vulnerable to soil decline. This decline in soil has an impact on measures that need to be taken before, for example, building, for example, the measure to raise the soil first. This decline in soil may also require basic protection and impose conditions on which legal limits and upper limits should be applied. When it comes to soil decline, new insights are becoming available about the soil and the speed of that decline. My question to the Minister is: how will new, often scientific insights on soil decline, for example, be translated into measures and into legal limits and upper limits? How is it ensured that these legal limits and upper limits are always in line with the latest scientific insights into this decline in soil? Then a little trip to archaeology. In the supplement law soil is arranged how to deal with well-known and likely archaeological monuments. Municipalities take this into account in the environmental plan, there is also room for that. My question to the Minister is: what is arranged for unexpected archaeological finds, if you do interesting finds during digging, so unexpectedly? Then what is the guidance you have in the supplement law soil in order to protect unexpected archaeological finds on the spot? Then I go to my third and final design: enforcement. Improvements in the system review include increasing clarity and predictability and faster and better progress. Those are good upgrades. In the Supplementary Decision, this has been designed, inter alia, by applying fewer reporting obligations and more general rules. In the consultation, governments, as well as the independent, highly valued Inspection Environment and Transport, indicate that they will soon have less information for policy and enforcement. That's what my question is about. What is the Minister's response to the signal from its own independent Inspection Environment and Transport, which already indicates that maintaining can become more difficult? The introduction of the Environmental Law creates differences in regulation between municipalities. That's also the hallmark. Drivers are given discretion to deliver customization per situation. In doing so, they will be advised by advisors from enforcement. Municipalities have often invested these tasks in environmental services. My question to the Minister is: how does she see the extra attention that this combination of tasks in environmental services requires in addition to efforts on the recently launched course of authorisation, supervision and enforcement? We await with interest the Minister's answers. Thank you also to the officials for handling the large number of questions and the way in which they have tried to answer them in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by expressing my appreciation for all the efforts made by the Ministry, the provinces of the water authorities and the municipalities to reach the Soil Supplementary Act and the Supplementary Decision. Thank you also for all the efforts of the ministry officials. The response was 45 pages and the further response was 38 pages! The Christian Union Group agrees with the three pillars of soil policy. To know: 1. prevention of new contamination or degradation; 2. consideration of soil quality as part of the quality of the physical environment and 3. sustainable and efficient management of the remaining historical impurities. The Group stresses that these pillars must be seen in conjunction with a balanced vision of nature and sustainability. Mr. Chairman. In the preliminary report of the Permanent Committee, the Christian Union Group asked whether the Soil Supplementary Act and the Soil Supplementary Decision lead to better quality and more coherence in the soil legislation. The Minister's reply, I refer to the response on page 39 of the report, is convincing. The Minister rightly points out that the quality of legislation and rules is determined not only by the regulation of laws and rules, but also by the instrument package and the terminology used. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the Supplementary Act sound, I asked some questions about the relationship with the ILT report. I would also like to ask similar questions around the bottom. The first question is therefore: how does the Minister assess the complexity of the Additional Soil Act in the light of the ILT report? Can the Minister undertake to examine how the complexity of the law is experienced by civil servants in the assessment of the Additional Law soil? The second question is: how does the Minister assess the different interests and roles of the soil? Is this cause adequately addressed by the "Other works" programme, and in what way? Mr. Chairman. If you read all these pieces again, and I have read most of them for the second time, then you can see how many critical questions have been raised in relation to the level of protection of the soil compared to the current law. All the groups have asked questions about this. Our group has wondered why there are so many critical questions about the level of protection of soil and about the use of customisation? And why do these questions, even in this debate, keep coming back? I believe that the first answer to this question can be found in our task as First Chamber: it is about legality, feasibility and enforcement of laws and decisions. I cannot escape the impression that a second answer also plays a role, namely that we find it difficult to give out power and delegate it to local authorities. If that is the case, then this immediately raises the question: how can we be fruitful in dealing with this second answer? In the view of the Christian Union, only one good answer is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u16	To clarify, who does Mr Verkerk mean by "we"? Who find it difficult to let power go to local governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u17	I have put the word "we" in general terms, because I was wondering myself, but also because I got the strong impression that it is playing with others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u18	Then that's an impression, because it doesn't appeal to me. Then that is apparently an impression that lives with Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u19	I also deliberately used the word "impression." And if that doesn't apply to you... Thank you for that information. Mr President, I shall continue. In the view of the Christian Union, there is one good answer to this: to engage in dialogue on delegation. In other words, it is not just about the structure of legislation, but also about the political-democratic culture in which it must function. When I use the words political-democratic culture, I immediately think of the discussion we had with Minister Knops about the report Low thresholds, high dikes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u20	Mr Verkerk states that we are dealing here with culture, with letting go and trusting each other. That's what the answer says. Could it also have to do with the fact that some Members of Parliament, or perhaps the whole Chamber, are concerned whether, regardless of culture, local authorities or local authorities have sufficient knowledge, skills and finances to carry out the tasks they have to perform properly? That's my one question. My second question is this. The ordinary citizen is behind these governments. What does Mr Verkerk think is an acceptable area to entrust to the local authorities in which they can practice or experiment in?I do not know what the correct terminology is, but perhaps you understand a little what I mean to take ownership of the matter, but we must realise that its effects can be felt for decades to come for people who, for example, buy a house in an outskirts residential area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u21	I share your view that knowledge, experience and skills are important. I also mentioned this in the Environment Act. I shall come back to that now. Of course, it is clear that the public can expect a lot from the government. I myself lived in an outer dike area under the old law. My house is flooded. I lived in Deer. That shows that under the old law not everything was pais and love, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u22	That may be true, but with the Environment Act, of course, we try to make it better. At least, I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u23	Yes. We are convinced that the Environment Act provides a lot of leads to make this better. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. In the debate, the Minister promised to our group that in the cabinet's total or final reaction, political-democratic culture would be identified as an important focus or a common thread in strengthening our rule of law. We have the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister recognise that in the debate on the Supplementary Law on Soil Environment it is not only about the structure of the law but also about the political-democratic culture within which that law must function? If so, does the Minister recognise the importance of dialogues on power and counterpower to maximise soil protection and even to improve soil quality? In what way can the Minister bring this type of question into consultation with municipalities, provinces and water authorities in a fruitful way? What commitment can it make in this respect? Mr. Chairman. In the last week, again, disturbing stories have appeared in the newspaper about the decrease in soil quality under the influence of nitrogen. This debate also mentions the influence of, for example, pfas. Nitrogen has a major influence on the acidity of the soil. The acidity of the soil has an effect on the growth of plants, shrubs and trees, especially through rooting, mineral absorption and nutrient availability. On page 13 of the reply, it says: "Improving soil quality, including for plants and animals, takes shape by means of instruments of the Environmental Law to which this proposal belongs." Our group's question is: how is the Minister going to shape this improvement in soil quality? Has the Minister developed a policy for this? And if not, can the Minister undertake to develop policies for this purpose? I would like to stress that these questions are not about PAS nor about Natura 2000 sites, but about everything that falls outside. Mr. Chairman. In its opinion, the Council of State states that it is not clear to what extent the bill complies with the principle of equal protection. All the documents show that the Minister believes that this is the case. In the debate on the Environmental Law Introduction Act, the Minister undertook to arrive at an independent evaluation of the Environmental Law. Can the Minister also undertake to do so for the supplementary law on soil? And can the Minister also promise that this evaluation will give explicit consideration to the impact of this law on the protection of citizens, and thus, of course, on the right balance between exploiting and protecting them? Mr. Chairman. In the further reply we read on page 10 that the draft Supplementary Decision soil has been discussed with the VNG and that there are no outstanding points. Our group's question is: does this also apply to the IPO and the Union of Water Councils? Our group looks forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I shall then give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are going to talk about the Supplementary Act, the Supplementary Decision soil. Let's start with the context. The Environment Act and the Introduction Act Environment Act determine the broad framework. That's not what we're talking about today. Whether we agree with the Introduction Act or not, that was discussed last week. I'm going to try as much as possible not to repeat that discussion. That's not gonna work. I would like to talk about the broad lines and the loose ends of this introduction track soil. The questions raised by my group in this legislative proposal can be summarized in the question of whether the Soil Supplementary Act and its decision create a clearly coherent system for regulating and normalising the use of our soil, with consideration at the appropriate level and with sufficient democratic legitimacy. Of course, the question is whether we can be sure of good and sustainable land use. There is great pressure on the quality of the scarce Dutch soil and, as a result, on our groundwater. After all, we need groundwater for drinking and industrial water supply, we have intensive agriculture, greenhouse horticulture, we also have excessive fertilization, extraction of soil energy, geothermal energy, housing, more space for greenery, storage of precipitation: the list of things we need our soil for is almost endless, and all this must be given room. It is a good thing that these soil and groundwater interests are taken fully into account in the introduction of this new system, at the forefront of decision-making. If you have to find out what the profit is on this lead, it's in there. My group still has doubts as to whether this integral balance will actually be made up for by all the municipalities, but we have already discussed this in detail in the Environment Act. Nevertheless, I ask the Minister, in connection with the article yesterday in the NRC on the report of the ILT, what national interests, as a result of the law we are discussing today, are supposed to be represented by provinces and municipalities? And how is the representation of these interests controlled? That is where I believe the fundamental problem lies: national interests do not seem to be sufficiently protected under the current rules and in the eyes of municipalities. We need to fix that mistake, if that's true, and certainly not deepen it anymore. My group also has other concerns. The use of Dutch soil, the lack of protection, is the cause of the current crisis around nitrogen and pfas. That crisis is far from over. As a result of continuous pollution, nature in our country is also deteriorating and, therefore, its viability. The solution requires national direction, national measures, even before the planned introduction of the new spatial planning system. Where national direction is required, this law allows local considerations around soil on parts. This law thus seems to go against current developments and thus miss the spirit of the time. Can the Minister explain to us once again that it has sufficient instruments in its hands to actively protect and improve our soil, and consequently our drinking water, if the proposed system actually enters into force? When will it actually use these instruments? The Group of the Party of European Socialists notes that international standards are often minimum standards and that we cannot always meet these minimum standards in our densely populated delta. Can the Minister provide an insight into the extent to which national standards currently exist, such as the soil quality regime, which go beyond European standards? For all too often Europe is referred to when action is needed, for example on nitrogen and Natura 2000 sites, but if the Minister can confirm here again that it is not Europe that forces us, but that it is our own political ambition to strengthen nature and reduce nitrogen deposition for this purpose, then I am a little more reassured. I was shocked by the Prime Minister, who suggested the abolition of Natura 2000 sites as a solution or at least a partial solution to the problem of nitrogen. That can't be the direction we're going in. Furthermore, I have, of course, read in reply to the written questions that the introduction of this law and this system does not substantially change the existing rules and that this is not the intention. Is it not desirable, however, to change the system with more national direction in order to meet the major challenges of the coming decades? The standards within which municipalities have to make their assessment are laid down in the Act activities environment, Decision quality living environment and at least in the dowry in the beginning. Municipalities can deviate from this set of standards by customization and must motivate it, the PvdA Group has understood the Minister. In other words, I read in the replies that there can be no deviation from the standards laid down in the Decision on the environment, or perhaps not in part, but I was not able to put that very well together. Can the Minister shed her light on this one more time? How large is the margin of municipalities exactly? Quite precisely: the government seems to reflect in its answers that this margin is not so bad, most of it is actually fixed, there is only a very limited space in customization for very limited projects in the municipality. But can the Minister just get this straight? 'Cause that's where we're concerned. Does the possibility to derogate therefore mean that the judge can destroy a decision which does not provide sufficient insight into the consideration of the deviation from one of these three standards, as unmotivated, as is usual in the case of decisions within the meaning of the Awb? What are the requirements for the motivation of municipalities? Is that supposed to be a reasonable consideration? Then what's reasonable? Are there underlying material standards where the judge or the municipality can initially check whether the decision is sufficiently reasoned? Then there's the VTH system, permit, oversight and enforcement. This remains at least for the T and H, supervision and enforcement, invested in the environmental services. The Minister states that these services are sufficiently equipped to continue to carry out that monitoring and enforcement at sufficient level. Maybe it can be even more efficient, I read. But is it not plausible, as will be the case in the case-law, that the services have to adapt to the new situation, that training is needed, that there is uncertainty, that there is differentiation in a number of standards, so that this will certainly not be more efficient? I also read in the answers that the probability of control is about 5%, but that seems to me to be rather positive. Can the Minister answer our question as to what the chances are, for example, of a check when a farmer leaves his garbage in the late evening or the night? The button that activates the entire process of authorisation is the notification. The non-reporting of licensed acts makes this activity illegal, as we have read. But this system only works if the possibility of discovery is realistic. So check it out. Can the Minister provide an insight into what the maintenance of risk-driven means and whether this actually leads to that promised, real chance of taking it? The competent authority then. I have to hurry, I see! This shifts from 12 provinces and 29 large municipalities to all 355 municipalities. And yet the Minister is not concerned about the specialist knowledge needed in all these municipalities. So much digital knowledge will be available. Isn't that too positive? Are we not in great danger that either the quality will fall short, or that the municipalities will become dependent on consultants and thus actually outsource the administrative balance? Is it not advisable to make expertise from Rijk, province or larger municipalities available to the municipalities for this task? Can the Minister guarantee that all, combined, 367 competent authorities are and remain at the appropriate administrative level when they are introduced? I read that with the introduction of this law there is more attention to the health of residents and that this element is taken into account in the consideration. Can the Minister explain this again? On the subject of evaluation, I agree with colleagues for the sake of time. I welcome an annual evaluation, as promised in last week's debate. I'd just like to make my personal closing, which is that I'm a Dordtenaar. In the 1980s, Dordrecht had the poison district De Tail, which was built on polluted soil. This has led to great uncertainty among the people who lived there, fear, stress and all kinds of other negative effects. So, what's next? The largest PFAS factory in the Netherlands is once again located in the same district, De Tail, and the residents are once again in uncertainty and fear. For example, RIVM advised not to eat any vegetables from its own garden. That's what this law is about, just, about protecting those people in the Tail district. That is what my group particularly wants to be reassured about. Does the new law give adequate protection to these individual citizens? We shall look into this proposal. I'm very curious about the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Then I'll suspend the sitting and the debate on this bill for lunch break.
