tbmm-2021-02-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, we're going through an important process that burns the hearts of our nation. A military operation called Talon Eagle-2 has been staged to purge the separatist terror of the Gara region north of Iraq. Captain Ertuğ Güler, Captain Burak Çishkun and Petty Officer Sergeant Harun Turhan were killed in the shootings during this operation. In addition, 13 of our sons, who have been kidnapped by a despicable ambush, who have been held hostage by a separatist organization for some time, were bound, shot to death, and our sons have been executed. We hereby offer God's mercy to all our martyrs, our condolences to our nation. For decades, this organization has been brutalized enough to put a bullet in a baby in the cradle, which has been slaughtering soldiers-ville, men and women, young and old without distinction. In such a difficult time, it is the duty of all who serve in this Parliament to not bow down to the dirty propaganda mechanism of terrorism. Opposition or power, all the MPs of this nation must take a stand against the gang, the empirical tong that martyred the sons of this nation. Although its origin is clear, our nation is closely pursuing those who do not give the name of the terrorist organization. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the headquarters of the Liberation War, the seat of the national will. Anyone who goes under this roof has to go under that obligation. Those who run politics under the guardianship of terrorist organisations must abandon this path immediately. Those who accuse Mehmet-Chik (the PKK) in order to cover their killing barrels are no different from terrorists in our nation's eyes, who have taken immunity from the terrorist armor. Those who do not distance themselves from terrorism, those who do not stray from the direction of separatist killers, those who establish dark partnerships and hand rub hands will then be treated in the same way as Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in our nation's conscience. We remind 15/2/1999 of the immoral who deal with traitors. Just as the head of the baby-killer terrorist organization was packed and returned to our country, the bloody killers in Kandil will not survive this fate. In addition, a letter recently addressed to Joe Biden, written by 54 American senators, Turkey has been asked to be pressured, so to speak. The letter we're talking about is a product of imperial arrogance, a disgrace of diplomacy that undermines our national sovereignty. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who served as President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has always stood firm against such misdeeds. The Bani of the Republic of Turkey, Grand Ataturk, has addressed the occupational forces who want to stop him while organizing congresses to lay the foundations of the National Assembly: I am not one of those who stoop to the help of any foreign state. For me, the greatest refuge is in the heart of our nation, the aid source. Whether Joe Biden's administration or another force is involved in the internal affairs of the Republic of Turkey, he will see this steel will. It is our duty to protect the unity of our nation, the greatness of our state, against our martyrs, who have the blood of saints in our Parliament, against Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, there is a request on the outside of the agenda as part of the second joke of Article 59 of the Civil Code concerning the execution of Operation Talon Eagle-2 and the martyrdom of 13 of our citizens in the Gara region. This is the request of National Defence Minister Hulusi Akar. I will grant this request. I'd like to invite the ministers to the General Assembly. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] After the ministers' statement, I will make a pledge to political party groups at their request and to MPs who do not have a group. The deadlines will be 20 minutes each for ministers and political party groups, as the 2 ministers will speak, and five for two MPs without a group. The first statement belongs to Mr. Hulusi Akar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0002par0012	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you under the roof of the Veteran Assembly. Today, I'm going to give you a brief report on Operation Talon Eagle-2, performed in the northern Gara region of Iraq. But before that, I'd like to talk about a few things. The Ministry of National Defence continues its fight with determination and determination in the sense that if I die, if I die inspired by the love, trust and prayer of our noble nation, especially against terrorist organizations such as the PKK, YPG and DEAS, with all its elements. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our fight against the PKK, which strives to continue its existence in the north of Iraq, continues and continues at an increasing pace and violence. In particular, I would like to point out that we respect the territorial integrity of Iraq, and it is our sincere desire for Iraq to achieve stability and prosperity in political unity. In this framework, we are determined to end the terror that has been draining our country's energy for years, to save 83 million citizens, our noble nation from this terror. In the north of Iraq, our operations are being carried out in order to destroy the isolated positions and housing sites across the border of the terrorist organization, provide border security from the front, and neutralize the maximum terrorist. Operation Claw Tiger Series, which we started in northern Iraq in May 2019, continues as planned. As a result of these operations, specific areas, destinations and locations have been largely cleared, cleaned, and thus limited the terrorist mobility. In this way, the movement freedom has been restricted and the organization has started gathering in Gara. In short, to give you an idea, as it turns out, the fight against Sinat-Haftanin, Metina, Metina, Zap, Avaschin-Basyan and Hakurk (terrorists in Hakurk) has been going on for a long time, and the terrorists here have been largely neutralized. But because of its location and the inverse compartments, because of the mountain ranges, because of the difficulty of getting here, in various ways, so far no action has been carried out in Gara. For this reason, much of the terrorists in this region are still among the information that the PKK, in some way, chose Gara (the so-called safe zone) and focused on it, began to use this area as a so-called school, educational center and meeting ground. Terrorists may arrive at any time in this area that has not been entered until now. They feel relatively comfortable and secure, although they fear that they may come. We've already been tracking this area. In the last five months, we've been focusing on this particular area. Without land support, this operation was carried out at a depth of 35 kilometers, and that's why this operation is critical and important. Since there is an action done on land without contact or support in any way, it is very different from earlier operations in quality rather than in quantity. For the operation, there has been extensive preparation for the necessary secrecy measures, in this framework detailed mapping of the field to be operated on, the need for strength has been determined, and the detailed work for targets has been carried out by our relevant elements. Prior to the coordinated action with our friends and allies, the targets have been carefully chosen, the planning and execution of the operation and the protection of civilian citizens with the safety of lives and goods and environmental care have been shown. Before that, the Black and Air Force were also co-ordinated and co-ordinated between the elements of land, aviation and Special Forces. In addition, these studies have been turned into an order of operations, and on February 10, 2:55 a.m., action has been launched in support of Air Force aircraft and drones, in accordance with our rights to self-defense due to international law. Our field of action can be said to be a rectangle, which will be 25 kilometers to 75 kilometers in diameter. More than 50 people have been shot for their goal. Other targets have been cancelled due to security, both our elements and the environment. At 5:45 p.m., air offensive operations were launched and our special force elements have begun to land in helicopters in various areas that we've set up, so the necessary measures to prevent entry and exiting the area have been carried out to control the appropriate areas of the land. In the first contact, we had two martyrs and one wounded in one of the districts, when we first landed where these events took place. Our wounded officer, our captain, was later martyred in the hospital. We have three dead and three wounded all over the operation, and our wounded are under treatment at the hospital, and there are no life-threatening risks. We've just received word and one of our wounded have been released from here. In this area, where many caves are located, fire has been concentrated in the cave, and the entrances to the cave have been detected by iron gates. We consider this photograph important to see the nature of the land. The cave in question is in that area over there, in that area, over there. Therefore, there is no way to affect this place with air elements, planes, or SIHA, and therefore, we must make sure that we do land operations here. In other words, it's not possible for our Air Force to reach here in any way as a geometric structure to respond to some of the thesis. The other gates of the cave, which followed up with the necessary discovery and research, were found at two other gates, where security measures were taken and the doors were tried to be destroyed in order to get in. Meanwhile, there were shots fired from the inside, grenades were thrown, and in exchange, our soldiers, our Special Forces elements, were responding with a grenade. Furthermore, only tear gas was used at the entrance of the cave in exchange for grenades and light weapons; other than that, there is no way to use any weapons, ammunition. During these practices, they were repeatedly called upon to surrender to terrorists; they were repeatedly reminded that their work was wrong, that they had no means of escape, and therefore had to surrender. Later, it was discovered that there were very narrow gates and additional iron gates in the cave, which were initially unknown, so progress was very difficult. At the end of these long studies, the first terrorist -- Şervan Korkmaz, code -- Osman Azerbaijan, don't shoot, I want to surrender. He went out and was delivered by our elements there. It has been stated that there are 13 people, including one, seven terrorists and 12 detained Turkish citizens, one of whom is a foreigner; 13 of whom have been detained, so-called cave chief Sorej, at the beginning of the air offensive operation by the so-called cave chief, so-called Sorej, had been shot in the head by around 5.45. In addition to the announcements of Special Forces personnel, the first terrorist is treating me well, so don't be afraid, come, surrender. Despite his calls, no one has come to surrender. The next morning, a second terrorist escaped from the cave and was captured by our security forces, our soldiers. The second terrorist -- Merkaz Botan, code -- has been stated in the statement of Doğan Balgel. That 13 people who were detained were shot in the head of the code by Sorej. In the statement of the terrorists caught during the operation, the so-called Gara chief said he expected an operation in Derek, Sincar or Gara. In this context, an important finding of these other activities, an important proof, and another available data, is the subject that I'm about to introduce. The so-called cave chief Sorej code, we consider the vital importance of showing the YPG-PK relationship to be the most concrete proof. The wanted terrorist is Kamuran Ataman, Şırnak Beytüşşebap 1986, one of the terrorists on the orange list. Before 2017, he was involved in many massacres in the Beytüşşebap region and somehow fled; he served as a so-called front guard in the Kamişlı region, Derik region, there in 2017-2018. Later, he was treated in Derik, where he was injured or sick in some way, followed by treatment in the area of Gara, and was appointed as the so-called prison warden in the fall of 2019. So there are some people who say there is no relationship between YPG and the PKK -- inside, outside -- these and similar examples -- which are very, very recent examples -- that must be seen. Thus, as we say everywhere, the YPG is no different from the PKK; it is called the Syrian branch of the YPG Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Also, two terrorists, again, for the cave, were called to surrender, but no one came out again, and they were fired from the inside. So it was decided to go in, the operation started; it was completely dark inside, it was possible to do a partial lighting with lanterns, and the operation was carried out carefully and slowly because of security. Within the cave, the fire was fired by terrorists, and after a while, the fire was stopped. And when it's called the cave -- many times it's been shown on television -- it's been given to the press -- this was initially seen as the first door of the cave, and then the two doors were discovered here, and then the one who surrendered came from here, the terrorist who was trying to escape, and the important thing here -- we're going to come back here -- and we need to see here, of course, in operations, of course, but these operations are very difficult, but these cave operations are particularly difficult because you don't know about a field, a shape you don't know, a number of practices you don't know, in a number of measures that you don't know. In that sense, as you can see here, it's 5 feet high, very low, and it's falling 70 centimeters down the corridor here, and there's a five-foot corridor, and there's an iron door on one side, and there's a bars on the back. So the progress of our elements, our soldiers, Mehmet-duk, here, without knowing who was in the dark and who was across the street, was a serious challenge. In this frame, fire is coming, fire is being answered, dark and difficult conditions have succeeded in the task given to him, and there are seven doors -- these doors, the doors shown in red -- iron doors and iron curtains, the transitions are important; so each of these needs to be destroyed with proper destruction, needs to be broken, needs to be broken. In this way, carefully, as safe as possible, on the basis of getting as much as possible, the issue has been developed here, progress has been developed, and it has finally been entered into the division where 13 of our citizens have been martyred. And indeed, when they entered it, the bodies of our citizens were seen on the ground. With the necessary security measures being taken, the body was evacuated from the cave after the security of the environment was secured, after the entrance and exit was secured. And in the end, the statements of the two terrorists were similarly seen in a manner that included seven iron doors and bars and nine rooms. The whole condition of the cave over there was detected by our elements in the operation, and then by video and photographs, despite the darkness, whether it's fluorescent, with the beacon, in order to be understood. So the operation was really done by our heroic staff, by our security forces, under very difficult conditions, and in a way that not every unit could do. In the end, Şırnak has been identified as the closest place to which we can meet and talk to our Ministers of Justice and Interior for forensic procedures. However, due to the limited ability of forensic medicine in Şırnak province, our martyrs -- 13 martyrs, one Iraqi -- were handed over to Malatya Forensic Medicine. He was first transferred from the cave to Şırnak, and the Medical Examiner in Malatya received them, did the necessary procedures, and continues to perform them. Some of these, sir, have been published, will be published. After the bodies of our martyrs were safely transported into the country, our security forces there took necessary security measures from land and air, and our elements involved in the operation began to return to the homeland gradually and safely. However, even now, even after we returned, our operations there continued. There's a device that somehow moves with this parachute -- I'll tell my master -- called Paramotor. On the 14th of the month, three terrorists were identified with this device, and they were neutralized. Then the region's search, its discovery, both targets, and three targets, were also hit by our Air Force. In that sense, our surveillance activities there, our intelligence activities there continue. I'd like to express here that we're prepared to perform the necessary activities against them if there's ever been any kind of situation there. I'd like to share an intelligence note with you here, which is, what happened as a result of this operation? As a result of this operation, it is clear that terrorists have suffered a serious loss both psychologically and financially. At the end of this, again, in the instructions issued by these so-called headquarters -- in the instructions published to terrorists -- for the next 15 days, no one will be less than three or four people -- because escapes have begun, another measure that will not be less than 3 or 4 to prevent escapes -- where they have reported to terrorists that they cannot be used, that they cannot be watched by television, that they cannot be watched by the telephone, the Internet, the tablet and the news can't be seen. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, 51 terrorists have been killed and 2 terrorists have been taken alive during the operation, four of whom are senior executives. Evaluations are being made that the number of terrorists that have been neutralized by intelligence sources is much greater, which is expected to be cleared up in the coming days. With this action, all the elements that have been settled in the area, trying to rebuild, and somehow preparing to attack our borders, our security forces, and our people have been largely cleared. Turkish Armed Forces have caused the PKK to suffer heavy casualties in a 25km area of the Gara, where the terrorist organisation, the PKK, feels very secure. The terrorist organization won't feel as comfortable here as it did yesterday. The Turkish Armed Forces from the heart of our noble nation will continue to fight terrorism for the safety of our country and our nation until the last terrorist is neutralized with determination and determination. No one has ever left the blood of our martyrs on the ground, and no one will ever be left behind. I wish God's mercy to our saintly martyrs who lost their lives during the operation, and to their grieving families, and to the Turkish Armed Forces and to the noble nation, their condolences and patience, and immediate healing for our wounded personnel. As a result, the Turkish Armed Forces, with the love, trust and support of our noble nation, continue to fight with great sacrifice and heroism in Syria, northern Iraq, Libya, Eastern Mediterranean, Karabaga, and many other geographys to contribute to regional and global peace and stability, to protect the rights of our friends and brothers, to protect their law. Once again, I salute our Veteran Assembly, your high delegation, and thank you for your attention and patience.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0003par0039	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now I give you my word to Mr. Süleyman Noble. Here you are, Your Royal Highness.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0004par0043	Mr. President, we're all here on a sad day, on a day of mourning. To share the pain of our nation, our country, our families, is more our duty to a son, a human being and a family than what we are here to do. First of all, from the day of his abduction, the martyr of Gara, the five years that we have been one family to each of our families for the last six years, the grief of our children, I ask the grace of God. Two captains, a petty officer who were killed in this operation, and I offer my condolences and my condolences to our wounded heroes. I'm sorry and sorry for the loss of our nation. Yesterday, I was at a funeral, just like my friends. I didn't know Aunt Unzile yesterday, and from the first day of my Home Office, we are her son. Yesterday I didn't know the mother of Sulbiah, who buried her son in Balıkesir. I didn't know our sister Ayþe Güler in Eskişehir yesterday. We're not wardrobe politicians, we're your friends who are struggling to fulfill the responsibility we've been given in this world and in the next, to carry out these matters in a way worthy of our nation, knowing how our heart can be dealt with. Aunt Unzile said a sentence to me when I leaned over, I didn't understand at first, I leaned back, she didn't say anything about her son, she didn't say anything about her pain, she didn't say anything about her heart, she didn't say anything about her heart, stand up three times! Stand up straight! Stand up straight! (AK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) Is that the only one? I called 12 people last night, 12 families, along with my friends, our Deputy Minister, General Commander in Chief of Police. The sentence said by Sevket Altıntaş, the father of Müslüm Altıntaş, is perhaps the sentence that will follow me throughout my life. I'm sorry. I don't need to say "Gam, there's no grief." He said, "Mr. Minister, he's cut off all my words." I agree with a lot of martyr funerals, but after such a long and exhausting process, the strength and patience that parents have demonstrated that the spirit of this nation is completely enthralled in their body -- I want to explain -- gave us another lesson last night and yesterday. None of our children were abducted on their way to a picnic, none of our children were abducted while they were fighting terrorism, or in an operation. I want to make it clear here that from the very first time this happened, from Europe and from America, from the social media that was built by the PKK and from the other groups, what was said, of course, was said in a sort of a way, in a way, that we have a purpose, and that we have pain, and that we have a knife, and they say it to draw a little bit more. These children were abducted from his family and his wife, abducted from his child. When Malatiah was about to go to his mother and father to eat the baklava that had been prepared for him, some were taken when they had just heard the smell of his mother's father on their return from the festival. Some of the most recent abductions in 2016 were abducted and detained on their way to an open-school test, saying, "Can we win the university test?" I'm going to tell you as it is because we've been living together for about four and a half years, five years, with all of our government's units, including our President. Our Deputy Minister, our general managers, we didn't just treat these families as citizens, God is a witness, we adopted them, we interviewed them every three months, but I'm going to tell you here on this stand how they met, how they tried to exploit our families, how they tried to open a new area for the PKK. It's not just my problem that we all care about, it's everyone in this House, it's our nation's. We're fighting terrorism. Our Minister has just told us, what's the matter with us in Gara, why Avachin-Basyan, why Hakurk, why Sinat-Haftanin; why are we going in here, beyond our own lands? In 2019, 70 percent of the terrorist organization's abuses came to us from those areas. God bless our Turkish Armed Forces, we're grateful; they went to those areas with fear of death. We're inside fighting terrorism together. Why have we reduced the number of terrorists to below 300? We don't have 53 from Turkey now; the children of mothers, fathers no longer go to the mountain; they go to school, they learn. Why do we like it, why don't we let go of this struggle? He's the reason. If you're in Sinat-Haftanin, if you're in Avachin-Basyan, if you're in Gara... Gara's not so easy, you can't see it here, you can't see the three-dimensional pictures, the mountains are like these crooked sandburst, land operations that need to be made one of the most difficult places. Although a congressman went very recently, and he showed up there, and we know that, and we know how tall he was. If you ask his name, we'll tell him.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0005par0051	We're asking.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0004par0052	Let me make this clear: In this operation here, these children were the first martyrs on the 10th of the month; they made a phone call to the families; they called Belgian number; they said: "They are bombing, so that the Turkish Armed Forces don't bomb this place. These are the general facts that must be known to this House and to our nation. Our deputy ministers, our chiefs of police, our chief of police, their families called one by one. They called us, the families called our friends, and we don't know anything about such a murder, or anything else, and I have to say here that they say that the building of the PKK and the construction of the PKK. From junkies called Emre Besil to all junkies, who have no conscience, until all the junkies whom the PKK is feeding in Europe -- if you love God, they want to have mercy from the terrorist organization. From the terrorist organization -- once again, I'm telling you -- it's the idiot who's waiting for morality. I wonder if there's anything wrong with the terrorist organization who's waiting for law? The traitor's son who leans on him is a traitor, simple as that. I'm not gonna say it here. No contact has been made with the families. It is called. There's Oznur Çuk. He put our President in touch with the families, and I was there. He called our president, he gave him collateral. The parents said: "The Human Rights Association tells us you can bring them to Turkey, but they're afraid that you'll do a legal exercise." Mr. President has instructed me to take them from the border. Nothing will happen. Once again, Mehmet Ersoy, Deputy Minister... The government has never made contact. Is the size of the lie so high? Shame on you! I'm speaking to all those who have come to our Ministry for the DHKP-C. And the MLKP. What did the Human Rights Association say when Justice Aghaoğlu left you? From the organization I founded, he said: "The PKK has taken over this organization, the IHD." Now, notice that a statement issued by the PKK is a statement issued by HDP MKYK (HDP) and a statement issued by the IHD (İHD) is a discrete statement.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0006par0056	All three are Kurdistan Workers' Party
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0004par0057	The purpose of all three is: the state is responsible, and the PKK is responsible. Oh, yeah? We're the same size as scales, are we? With what? We're on the same page as the terrorist organization. It's not enough that you took our children, it's not enough that you slaughtered our children, and you're making us responsible to the world, to the people in our country, to the families, to the families. Five times my Deputy Minister met in just one year. We have history, we have time, we have all of it, we are the government. We all know what's being discussed, what's being discussed, what's being discussed. They took the families, and brought them to Iraq, and brought them to Erbil. What happened? They came back empty-handed. Why? Because it's the first massacre of a terrorist organization? No. Dear lawmakers, the number I'm about to give you is the first time it's been said in the Republic of Turkey: from 1984 to today, the terrorist organization has committed 6,021 civilian massacres. Did he say anything about any of them, the fucking Human Rights Association? You're going after him, did he say anything? There were seven of them in the Diyarbakir Mothers. Uncle Sevket was there. They were all there. Did we go to someone and complain about your problems? The government has done everything here, has done everything in its power, and has not closed any door that can bring about any kind of conflict in this matter, as a human being, as a witness to my Naci Bostanci President. Didn't they come to you? Didn't they come to Mehmed Farkum? ▪ Meet with these families. Haven't you been told many times? There have been many opportunities for that. In fact, my Deputy Minister, if there's no bombing, we're his collateral, so don't worry. I mean, when you're asked if there's going to be a bombing when they're being taken, no, just bring them in, we're all collateral... on top of all this, Mr. President... you were at our minister's desk 20 days ago. What was your problem? I'll say the last thing he said in his interviews. I'm saying this from a fraternity, but let's take it on ourselves. They said, "Here's the MLKPP guy who's been taken into custody." We said, "Let him go, bring those soldiers, bring those cops." We said, "We're trying to soften things up." It's not over yet. Here's the face of Öznur Çukýk. When these children were kidnapped, did you or did you not call Pervin Buldan? All right, Pervin Buldana - Deputy President of the Group - let's bring them in. He said, "I'll see if they missed it." He came back and said, "Pervin Buldan: they'll have a few guests, then they'll let him go." [[From the AK PARTY rows, the voices and the noise.]] Boo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo! All of this applies to historical testimony. I'd like to point out that there are massacres here, we all know how these massacres are, how they are, where they're being established.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0007par0063	Relax, guys, don't answer, don't take it seriously.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0008par0064	He's lying, he's lying! Let's bring him in. He said he's the Deputy Director of the Group here.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0004par0066	Look, look here... [[Noises from HDP rows]] Look, 16 martyrs in 1987, 10 children, 2 women. Would he pity my cop, my soldier, and my heroic gendarme, my civilian citizen, who has no pity for them, no pity for ten children, no pity for the massacre in the village of Twoyaka? Accounting for what, reasoning for what? That's what America said, America said. We don't care what America says. We know what's happening in this geography, what's being revealed, and what's being suffered. Well, that happened, after the incident -- I told you all of the thesis just now -- where the phone call came from. Then, of course, as our Minister had just said, our children would be brought to Turkey. Our Minister of Justice, our Minister of Defense and myself, then we decided to bring him to Malatya by consulting with our President, thinking that the autopsy of our sons might be easier for time there. But because we know all of these arguments, because we know all of these lies, you'll take the initiative to the Governor, Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Chief of Police, and Mr. Chief of Security, and you'll lead the matter like this: one, all of our sons will be photographed, all of them will be photographed. Two, I've instructed my deputy ministers -- and I've given information to our president -- you will return immediately to our children and they will all see their body integrity. There won't be any hoarding left in anyone's head. Then they'll all have a record. One, all the photos are here, all the photos of the body integrity, the autopsy photos, and the autopsy reports are all here, one by one, all of our sons. My heart bleeds, my heart bleeds, but when we look at these photos, God knows, if we don't break that Murat Karayalan into a thousand pieces, I promise you honor again. (EC PARTI and UMP rows) These photos... and I want to make it clear here that the state of the Republic of Turkey has never taken a step outside of law and honor in the fight against terrorism. Two terrorists were captured there, anything could be done with that grudge, couldn't it? No, it was taken, taken, taken, testified, given by whom, at the end of the day, it was revealed there. I want to make it very clear that we, of course, have been very excited and expecting from the days when these children were taken from our country and their families alive. Yesterday we all thought about how to talk to their families, how to say a word to their families. But as one family told me, God loved them more than we did, and took them, and made them neighbor to the prophet. This is our faith. The fight against terrorism did not begin today, but I want you to know that with a very large process, hopefully soon this PKK will be eradicated. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to say one more thing, and I'd like you to know that. Yes, Turkey has fallen below 300, that's true, but there are 5,000 terrorists in Iran and Iraq. There are 15,000 people there, for having done the same thing in Syria, for taking 15, 16, 17, 18 - year - old children from their families, for stealing, for threatening, for taking them into the army -- so-called soldiers -- and for setting fire to the children's hands. I just want to say we're not done. Yes, we know we've kept the inside by moving the Turkish Armed Forces out, including operations inside, but God is a witness that this PKK and the PYD terror organization will not win over our families, our families will defeat them. (AK PARTY) This PKK terrorist organization and the PYD terrorist organization will not triumph over our martyrs, and our martyrs will defeat them. And this PKK/PYD terrorist organization, I want you to know that it will not win over the mothers, the mothers will beat them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Don't laugh, ma'am. We're not laughing. Don't laugh. Look, you're laughing, don't laugh.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0009par0076	The President General is laughing.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0004par0077	You don't have the mouth to speak of my president. You don't have a mouth, you don't have a mouth.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0010par0078	Mr. Secretary, this is a matter of intelligence.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0004par0079	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers murdered our sons in that cave, just as they did the 6,021 massacre, and of course we wanted to bring them and deliver them to their families, but we couldn't do it. Our sadness is great and our mourning is great. I have one request from the House, one request from the entire House; we went today morning, we explained the situation to Mr. Presidents, and we explained it to them, with all our sincerity, to ensure that history is not recorded in the wrong way. We're also explaining to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we're trying to explain the matter, but if they ask us this question, they'll be unfair; and if they turn around and ask this question, after this statement, they'll ask Trump. Look, Mr. President, you've been there, and I'll tell you what you've done to ask for them from the group you're with, Mr. President, let's be honest, for the sake of God. Look, it's a day, and let's be honest. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's all be sincere, and we all put this together, and we came up with all of our understanding, and we told you...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0011par0083	You should have thought of that when you took Osman Ocalan to TRT. Why did you take Osman Ocalan to the TRT?
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0012par0084	Why did you put the wanted terrorist on the TRT with the red bulletin?
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0013par0085	Mr. Secretary, here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0014par0086	On this occasion, I ask for the mercy of both our martyrs, the Lord God, and my condolences to the families. In particular, to our heroic sons who lost their lives in the operation, I pray for mercy from the Lord God, to heal the wounded. I'm sorry for the loss of our beloved nation. I salute you all with respect and respect.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0013par0089	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0015par0090	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0016par0091	At the end, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0017par0092	He asks questions, he answers.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0018par0093	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0019par0096	Mr. President, on a day like this, I'm not going to bring the extent of this discussion to a place that will satisfy someone's zeal at the point of covering their own flaws.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0020par0097	What a flaw! What flaws? What flaw? Look for fault in yourself.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0021par0098	Hey, listen up!
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0022par0099	Mr. Ozgur, you've been in consultation for an hour, haven't you? You've been talking to the side for an hour, and then you look me in the eye.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0021par0100	Mr. President, please step in, they're not listening.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0023par0101	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0022par0102	You've been consulting for an hour, and you've looked me in the eye, haven't you? You've looked at it, haven't you?
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0023par0103	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0022par0104	You've been discussing what the Minister asked you to discuss with the side. You looked me in the eye.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0024par0105	What's next door?
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0025par0106	What's a side side? We have a name.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0026par0107	Congressmans, there's nothing we can solve by making promises to each other in the face of this burning incident in Turkey. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0027par0109	Shut up!
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0028par0110	You're not my handler.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0029par0111	You shut up! You shut up! What do you mean by side?
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0027par0112	Shut up!
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0028par0113	I'm talking to him. You're his spokesman?
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0029par0114	You can't call me shut up.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0028par0115	Are you the spokesman for Free Bey? HDP CHP's spokesman?
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0029par0116	You can't target us.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0030par0117	The Deputy Director of the Group has taken his word, shame on you!
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0028par0118	It's a spokeswoman, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0119	Congressman, I promise you, come talk to me.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0028par0120	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0121	It's not like that. I'll call the guy who made the call.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0028par0122	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0123	Here you go, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0032par0124	Mr. President, making polemics on a day like this, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts. We're going to watch our language here, and today everyone's going to watch their language. That bench has a responsibility. Today, the properly requested appointment, the requested meeting was quickly answered, they were invited, they were heard, there were mutual talks, and those talks shed light on all of us in the future.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0127	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0032par0128	Mr. President, his questions can't be blamed for not asking the ministers of his appointment. An information visit to Mr. General President cannot set a direction or frame for the president's weekly group meeting, and the question asked there after the notification does not eliminate the legitimacy of the problem. Mr. President-General didn't just ask about Trump, Mr. President-General asked, for example, why it wasn't asked to take the initiative to rescue these children at the necessary point of support for the local election process. There are five questions: the leader of the Justice and Development Party and from that day -- the first soldier who was kidnapped -- asked the President today, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is waiting for answers tomorrow.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0130	Pack it up, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0032par0131	I have over 20 pages of reports on the question that Mr. Süleyman Nobleman didn't ask us inside, that he preferred to ask from the stand, that the CHP had made what efforts. I'm going to present him with five questions from the President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and then perhaps he'll need a correction. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0134	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0033par0135	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0136	The talks for the executives are complete.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0033par0137	Mr. President, I'd like a word, too. Because I don't think we should have done it in the first place. I'd like a word, please.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0138	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0033par0140	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I agree with you on the subject of style, but I would like to point out, Mr. Special, that we, as the AK PARTI, had a principle, that we had a decision that was not named after the President General to answer what the Presidents had said, but within ourselves. You broke this decision, this principle, you broke it, especially as Deputy Directors of the Group. We're witnessing with my friends, you're talking to our president with such harsh accusations -- we've talked about this a lot before in the General Assembly -- your speeches, your sentences -- you're the one who broke that principle here. Actually, politically, I think it should be. The presidents must first respond to the presidents, but since you destroyed this principle, if you're aware, we're responding when it comes to it.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0031par0142	Here, pick it up, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0033par0143	And today, you ask the question during the day. Besides, I don't think they're a question, so it's got to be a product of real curiosity to be a question. Two of our ministers have already visited you today, and I think it's very detailed, and there's a point to these conversations being private. So I'm sure there's a difference between what's said here and what's said there, and I think you know that very well. So, in that sense, you ask questions -- if it's a real question -- that's what we're going to do in the day and in the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0034par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0035par0146	Shall we continue this...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0034par0147	Mr. President, in one sentence...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0035par0148	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0034par0150	We all need to know our mission description. We're all Deputy Group Presidents here. You and I are the acting presidents of our group presidents, and we'll sign their power of attorney, and we'll give them our word. In this Parliament's tradition, the leaders' debates are to be carried out by their representatives. There's no such tradition. There's no such thing as ruining it. But here's the thing: Mr. President, you're Recep Tayyip Erdogan's deputy, you have a partner at four, but there's no such thing as a minister or an appointment to replace your positions at this point. In fact, it's a disgrace to you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0036par0152	Mr. President, that's way out of line. We're in total denial...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0037par0154	There's no point in continuing this discussion. The talks for the executives are complete. Now I'm going to meet the political party groups' demands. The first word for the groups belongs to İzmir MP Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu on behalf of the PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0038par0162	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, and may their place be in heaven. For the sake of our beloved nation, for the sake of our country, for the sake of Turkishness. We're not going to talk politics today, so I don't intend to occupy the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for the polemics. Besides, in the morning hours...
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0039par0166	Just a minute, Mr. Dervisoglu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we can't listen to the preacher. If anyone wants to talk, I'd like to invite you backstage, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2021-02-16sit02spe0038par0168	It's all right, sir, I'm talking history, that's why I'm here. (PEOPLE RINGS) They either listen or they don't listen. If what we've already said had been literally rested, we wouldn't be having a lot of the problems we're facing today. I also want to thank our ministers for their visits and information to the heads of our political parties and their headquarters. Today, on such an important day, they also informed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to meet the need for information from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Again, thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense has signed off on a detailed discussion of the technical details of the operation. Mr. Home Secretary has expressed his determination to fight terrorism, just like our National Defence Minister. I don't intend to be able to create polemics, create polemics, engage in cross-controversies in order to collect a political rant from them. We're not going to talk politics today, but it's our right to expect the same sensitivity from everyone. It's a necessity for us to learn from common suffering, to put aside political economic concerns, to take care of our words, but we expect the same sensitivity from the ruling group as we display this sensitivity. Because on painful days like these, you want us not to talk about any of your past mistakes. So we swallowed the bitter days and drank the blood and drank the cranberry syrup. We didn't get a vote from the nation and come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course we will share our sensitivities, we will share our pain, but we will address historical data from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which can guarantee that some of the ruling groups would say, "I wish we hadn't." I don't want to have to say that things have been done, they've been done. I don't want to say that in such a painful environment, where we've put everything in our heart, holding a mirror to your face so that you can question yourself, but take it out of my testimony: it's a necessity to face the mirror that you're looking at. It's of course you're facing it. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Turkey, 37 in terror
