tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, according to the programme, we will continue talks on the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD Commission? He's in position. Last year's 2022 was adopted under Article 4 of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal. MADDE 5- (1) Payment to Cover Staff Expenses: If public administrations and budgetary funds under the general budget are not seen to be sufficient for the budgets of private budgetary administrations, the current or new regulations related to the State Primitive Expenses (Personal Expenses) and ا Social Security Institutions for the costs required by the relevant legislation are 99-41 of the budget budget for Strategy and Budget Presidentships. 32-01-09. To transfer from the grant in the 01 scheme, The budget for strategy and budget president is 99-41. 32-01-09. From the budget of 06, the public administrations within the general budget and the budgets of special budgetary administrations will be opened or opened new (01), (02), (03), (05) and (08) in very urgent and mandatory conditions (06) and (07) in the economic codes that include economic codes, The budget for strategy and budget president is 99-41. 32-01-09. According to the implementation of the 2022 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Surveillance Decisions on the basis of the 2022 Investment Programme, from the grant in the 03 scheme, to step up investments in the primary sectors, or to transfer them to the current or new settings of private budgetary administrations, according to the conditions that have been developed during the year, or to new projects in the primary sectors and lower sectors and in the programme, to be used to increase their funding. (4) Payment for Natural Disaster Expenses: The budget for strategy and budget president is 99-41. 32-01-09. In order to meet all natural disaster costs for private budgets and public administrations under the general budget, as long as they are associated with the investment-quality investment programme in terms of investment-quality costs, The President is in charge. Yes, the first word for the group on matter is Mr. Metin Ergun. Mr. Ergun, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0002par0024	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 5th Amendment of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute your high council. There was a curse in China, where the honorable lawmakers modeled themselves on the development model of the government, which lost its balance and direction. When the Chinese curse someone, they curse you to live in interesting times. We live in interesting times, even very interesting times, as this Chinese curse has been exposed to. Because in the past, money, like the flag, represents the power, reputation, independence of a country like the national anthem. The reputation of money is a nation's reputation. Until now, we see that those who say "money" are doing everything they need to do to make our national money worthless and to make the rest of what they have said in their statements. We watch them make extraordinary efforts to do more. In particular, everyone knows that Turkish lira has been left vulnerable, that the central bank reserves and interest vehicles are intentionally and unwillingly dysfunctional. As such, those who have lost their way enough to reduce their central bank reserves to minus 40 billion dollars are now running into an unknown. Another phenomenon is that our national money, which has lost 46 per cent since New Year's, has been viewed as the competitive advantage of its painful disparity and worthlessness by 10-15 per cent a day. Because of this traumatic situation, which is seen as competitive, prices are not set in markets, Turkish lira checks are not accepted in business relations, and bills are now being cut by dollars, so trade with Turkish lira is about to come to a halt. As we've seen in the past in Argentina and other broken-down countries, our citizens in Turkey have been running from their currency with these irrational practices of the current government. Due to the loss of the power and credibility of Turkish lira, the nation quickly flees Turkish lira, savings are becoming dollars or gold. As far as we're concerned, more than 60 per cent of the total savings of citizens of the Republic of Turkey are now kept as dollars, not Turkish dollars. This is a great lesson for those who speak of domesticity and nationality. Today, no one mentions the 2023 goals of the EC PARTI, which were announced to the public in 2011 and exploited the hopes of our citizens by spreading propaganda over the years. Because Turkey, let alone reaching its goals in 2011, has fallen behind even its economic conditions in 2011. In 2023, those who aim to increase national income to $2 trillion per person income, $25,000 per person, $500 billion in exports, 5 per cent of unemployment, in the past ten years, have been able to talk to the nation about the Chinese model, seeing that the minimum wage for $200 is too high. People, while trying to maintain the value of their savings within the debacle, you can't protect the current power, because I'm going to apply the development model of China in Turkey. The Chinese-type development model that the government is talking about is basically lowering the real value of the minimum wage of $200. The fundamental rights and freedoms of tens of millions of people are under pressure at the cost of development. Because for this model to be implemented, the objector must be silenced, and those who raise their head must be crushed for example. So this model is a modern system of slavery that works for food in the honor and honor of humanity. Adding 10 million more to the growing number of working poor means that poverty and corruption become common and common. Now, let's ask power: is this what you desire? Even today, China has given up this model and has begun to resolve its intention to act in a high-tech development model, instead of a cheap labour force-based development. In China, this old production style, which defies human labor and lacks human dignity, continues with all its rigor in the concentration camps, where only our East Turkic kinsmen are taken captive. It is also important to note that even the Chinese regime, with a population of 1.5 billion, without all democratic and human qualities, tends to no longer resuscitate this model to its citizens, while the current government has lost its conscience and its mercy to Turkish citizens in Turkey in the 21st century. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The burden of decay from economy to foreign policy has now become immovable, along with the party presidential system. So it's a pity that even as they continue to negotiate, we are faced with a budget that has been emptied and has lost its macroeconomic power without law. Because Turkish lira has lost 46 per cent of its value to dollars since the beginning of the year and more than 30 per cent in the last two months, and the 2022 budget has significantly lost its real value. Even if we assume that the budget has not lost its real value, this budget is not promising any solutions to increasing and increasing socioeconomic problems, because there is no fight against inflation in this budget, and this budget is a budget that does not give us the slightest bit of mystical hope for people who are overwhelmed by the cost of life. There is no goal in this budget to reduce young unemployment that exceeds 25 percent. This budget does not offer any hope to teachers and to our unappointed college graduates. There will be no ointment on the wounds of our farmers who are crushed under the cost of entry. In its present form, it is the clearest indication of the end of the political will behind it. It is a budget of students who say they are struggling with interest and that the farmer is paying close to 100 per cent interest in agricultural loans. It's a budget that those who say they're fighting foreign forces want to transfer Turkish assets to foreign powers for extortion auctions. It's the budget of those who have transferred public funds to them by making our grandchildren owe five contractors money. Honourable MPs, as our president, Mr. Coral Akshener, stated, this budget is a budget of waste and waste. It's a budget that's draining people's labor into the interests of interest-makers. As of all these qualities, this budget is a budget of poverty, poverty, poverty, and black markets. (Applause from party lines) When we take into account all of these issues that we've been talking about, we can clearly and clearly say that the budget for 2022 is the final act of a 20-year-old tragedy. Therefore, I hope it will be the final budget of both the current power and the party president's system. May our nation rest in peace, we will completely change this order that promises modern slavery to the Turkish people in the first election.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0003par0039	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0002par0040	As the Good Party, we will distribute the gloomy clouds that have collapsed on our nation with Turkey's most qualified staff and projects. We're going to build a strong, rich, prosperous Turkey that's going to make our country stand fast. With the leadership and vision of our President, Mr. Coral Akşener, we are ready to solve any problem in our country. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] As I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0003par0044	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Lütfi Spooner. Here you go, Mr. Spooner.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0004par0047	Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 5 of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2022. I salute the High Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation who follow us on the screen. In fact, the world, along with its pandemic, has put the issue in second place. This issue is the environmental problems of global warming and global warming. The world's environmental institutions have shown us that the most important reason for global warming is the frequent use of fossil fuels. Thus, the most important countermeasure to global warming is that fossil fuel use is possible only by pulling down renewable energy sources, the rate of renewable energy we call clean energy. I'd like to explain to you here in numbers where the Paris Climate Agreement has been discussed, discussed, where Turkey has arrived at the point of renewable energy sources these days. Look, valuable lawmakers, at the clean energy point, at the renewable energy point, Turkey is at a level above the world average according to 2020 data. Today, at the point of using renewable energy sources in energy production around the world, the world average is 27 per cent, while the average average is 35 per cent in European Union countries, while Turkey is 43 per cent in use of renewable energy sources. Look, if these numbers were in any country in Europe or any country in the world, at the point of clean energy, at the point of renewable energy use, we would be referred to as the least damaging country in the world. However, the issue of clean energy captured by Turkey is always wanted to be ignored. Precious lawmakers have caused major ecological crises, especially global warming, for reasons such as human negative impact on the environment and excessive consumption of natural resources. The most important cause of these ecological crises is historically the massive weight given to fossil fuels in energy production. So although energy is a vital requirement for humans, energy has negative effects on the production and consumption of energy, climate, ecosystems, and human health. Today, the need for energy is increasing. Therefore, unless we make changes in our energy production and consumption habits, there is a risk that the ecological crises of energy will also become increasingly chronic. Fossil fuels and energy consumption have been re-examined by environmental movements, which are pollutants and cause ecological crises. In particular, the sustainable development movement aims to ensure that the environment is unharmed in the development process and the balanced use of natural resources. An awareness of energy has also been created by the environmental awareness process, and in this direction renewable energy has been increasingly supported throughout the world. In a nutshell, the subject of energy has begun to gain a dimension that takes more attention to environmental concerns. After the 70s, the subject of energy has brought critical importance to countries who have largely met their needs with imports due to the phenomenon of external addiction. This is true of Turkey today, and it is likely to become an area that can define Turkey's stance and attitude on both international relations and international policy. As an alternative to fossil fuels with widespread use due to concerns due to environmental and addiction, the methods of clean and renewable energy are becoming increasingly important. In the world, renewable energy investments are increasing, and Turkey has serious potential in this area. Therefore, serious incentives have been implemented in recent years for Turkey to increase the use of renewable energy and for the private sector to focus on renewable energy. In this way, countries such as Turkey are planned to reduce both the external dependence on energy and the negative impact on the environment. The demand for energy varies according to the countries. For example, as developing countries become industrial, they demand more energy than developed countries. Energy prices are also increasing in developing countries because energy is not effective for developed countries and energy supply is limited. This poses a downside to global competition in the final sense due to rising energy costs. For developing countries, another key problem in energy policies is external dependency. For developing countries dependent on energy imports, this reduction of dependency is a primary issue. The increasing demand for energy brings with it some problems. The biggest problem with energy production is global warming. In order to address this problem, the developed countries, which are responsible for global warming, say they have to change their lifestyle, economic, social structure, and their addiction to fossil fuels. However, traditional ways of producing energy are still preferred to fossil fuels around the world. This can't reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a global sense. Greenhouse gases have negative effects on the environment and on human health, and more than 99 percent of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are fueled by fossil fuels. An alternative energy production path has begun to be sought, as fossil fuels are both endangered and global warming has reached serious levels. These alternative energy production pathways include edible energy sources, such as wind, sun, and geothermal. However, investment incentives and financial support are needed because alternative energy production pathways are at a disadvantage in the cost of traditional energy production. In short, new energy production alternatives for future sustainable energy policies are emerging, drawing attention to international contracts as an important alternative to countries' national policy preferences, as well as to international contracts, due to the degrading impact of renewable energy. Fresh and renewable energy is clean energy derived from continuous and sustainable sources of energy such as solar, geothermal, biomass, ocean, wind, hydroelectrics, which are not as endangered as fossil fuel sources. Clean energy aims to achieve a better point for sustainability in matters such as energy security, environment, cost efficiency. Look, valued lawmakers, the part where we come here is a method the world has proposed to developing countries, so put aside fossil fuels and move on to clean energy sources. So, that's exactly what I've just made the point that Turkey has come to. At the clean energy point, at the point where renewable energy resources are being used, we're above the world average. I just gave you the numbers. The world average is 27 per cent, the clean energy use rate in the European Union is 35 per cent, and the number in Turkey is 43 per cent. As far as we're concerned, the first nine months of 2021 have reached 53.4 per cent of electricity production from renewable energy sources. Look, I want to give you a few more information: Turkey's renewable power of energy is following a trend that has increased over the years. In 2013, Turkey, which is 25.6 gigawatts, increased its power of renewable energy sources by an average of 10 per cent annually to about 47 gigawatts as of September 2020. In 2013, its total share in power, which was 40 per cent, rose to 50.4 per cent as of September 2020. During the period between 2013 and September 2020, hydropower plants have the largest share in the power build-up based on renewable energy sources, with an increase of 7.5 gigawatts. The hydroelectric plants are monitored by solar power plants with an increase of 6.4 gigawatts respectively; wind power plants with an increase of 5.3 gigawatts; geothermal power plants with an increase of 1.2 gigawatts; and biomass power plants with an increase of 1 gigawatts. In 2015, HES had 82 per cent of its renewable energy supply power, while the share was particularly regressed due to increases in the wind and the sun over the years.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0005par0057	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0004par0058	However, as of September 2020, it is also known that he had the largest share of 63 per cent of the power of the renewable energy sources. Taking into account all of this, Turkey has significant resources in terms of wind, geothermal and solar energy, which are vital to developing these resources in terms of fighting climate change and reducing the dependence on fossil fuels and imports in energy. At the end of my speech, I would like to point out that a number of agreements are being signed on measures against the pollution of the world. That's where I gave you the numbers. The most polluting people in the world have to suffer the most in this sense. With Turkey using clean energy and renewable energy resources above the world average, I think it's a model country, here, the numbers are here. Again, I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0006par0062	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Musa Piroglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0007par0065	Mr. President, I'd like to start by greeting the resistance at ADKOTURK, which has been producing pasta for two hundred and forty-two days, and the strike of the mayors of Bakırköy on its second day. It is possible to understand the arrogance of those who are dedicated to arrogance. We saw one yesterday; the Vice President expressed himself here with a great arrogance and a high regard for the people, against the Parliament, but the arrogance of the chosen ones is very hard to understand. Because the people who chose him, and at this point in the City of Bakırköy, it is impossible to understand the attitude of Bakırköy Mayor Bkent Kerimoğlu, who ignored the demands of the strike and the demands of the workers, who locked the strike and did everything in order not to solve this strike for fifty-two days. The workers are resisting, they have simple demands; they want their rights. With the police force and the mayor's disregard, this resistance continues. The City Trade Union will meet Thursday (December 16th) at one o'clock tomorrow, at the Copperville Freedom Square to support strike workers. Someone thinks it's his farm and his property, and the mayor thinks it's Copperville. I call on all the people of Bakırköy to take care of their own workers, city workers, support for tomorrow's big meeting, and solidarity with the workers to end this strike. This phone is doing a great job -- the pink paintings of ATV, the rose country pictures of the country -- and recently, anyone who picks up the phone sees bread tails and the dramas and the pain that are happening in these tails. He's watching tearful people, mothers swallowing their words. The country is struggling with a great deal of poverty. The country's in a state of poverty. Profits, storm, winter approached the door; natural gas, electricity costs, heating issues, food issues, and power doesn't care when the public raises their voice, when the people raise their problems, the people jump in front of phones and TVs, and they start talking like Maho Agha in Feyzo. You know Maho Agha, he's in Nice Feyzo, everyone's seen him; whenever the peasant gets up, I'm the one who gives you your bread, I'm the one who feeds you, but you're being ungrateful to me. The speakers of power do the same; when people say we are poor, there is no poverty. They say there is no bread. If he says there is no bread, there is no bread. If he says there is no bread, there is no bread, and he says, "You don't know how to thank him." He says, "You preach to him who collects food out of the garbage, you preach to the poor, and you start to thank him who waits for bread, and you start shouting, and you start shouting! We built the road, we built the bridge, and you are ungrateful to us! From here I warn you: every Agha has a Feyzo, every pharaoh has a Moses, every tyrant has a fearful dream. We will make your fearful dreams come true, and we will destroy your power, your palace, and your kingdom. Poverty is tied up in the current minimum wage issue. The minimum wage, in fact, is an exceptional wage in the world; it's the general wage in our country, which determines the lives of nearly 40 million people. And the speakers of power say they're going to raise the minimum wage, for example, $4,000, as the speakers of power give a great blessing in front of the televisions. What if you make it $10,000? They asked a worker, "How much should the salary be?" He said, "Let it be enough to give my children an allowance." I'm telling that worker from here that as long as you get minimum wage, you're not gonna be able to give your kid an allowance. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Because the minimum wage is the price of poverty, the price of poverty, the work of food, the minimum of living at the bottom. And this power, by calling it the Chinese model, is trying to make this misery permanent with the economic policy that it calls "Turkish model" and is called "The Turkish model," which it's been calling "The New Model" for 20 years, because this power continues to feed on poverty and poverty. So, what should we do? It's easy to criticize power, and it's easy to tell workers and poor people about poverty, but they're already alive. The public wants a solution, the public wants to know and know what to do about the misery this government offers, and I'm saying that maybe this Parliament can't handle poverty, but this Parliament can take all the measures that make poverty bearable in one day. He can change the law in a day and meet some of the public's expectations. For example, it can make electricity, natural gas, and heating free for the poor. So the energy companies can be seized. For example, he can remove all OTVs and VATs on obligatory consumption materials. For example, it can make health, education, transport, free of charge, but it doesn't do any of that, because the majority of this power works like the House of Bosses, and we know that poverty is the order of capital that has its primary source. We stand by a difference in this House, different from everyone else. The majority of parliament is feeding on this poverty. That's why he wants poverty to get deeper and bigger. Another side wants to reduce poverty. We want to lift poverty. We want a world where poverty has disappeared, and we believe that to remove poverty, we need to look at the source of poverty, and when we look at the source of poverty, we get this capital order. The reason for poverty is simple, the rich steal from us, the bosses steal from the workers. As long as the rich and the bosses exist, poverty will continue, public misery will continue. Because it's very simple, the country is getting poor, but not everyone is getting poor, and Coach adds wealth to his wealth, he adds wealth to his plower's wealth, he plays with billions, but most of the people continue to become poor because their wealth is made of people. Then there's one simple thing to do: people have to take their word for it. As long as we leave the word here, as long as we leave the right to speak for ourselves to the bosses and to the rich or to their spokesman, we won't have a chance to solve this problem; we haven't solved it in years, we won't; there's only one way to solve it; there's a heavy winter coming: poverty coming, poverty growing, poverty growing, we need to get up, we need to get up. And I speak openly from here, through this poverty and misery to those who dream of the State of Emergency, and I to those who, from here, through poverty and misery, make a scene of the State of Emergency: don't dream in vain. We're ready to turn all your tyranny, all this, all of your H.R. dreams into your nightmare, and we're going to do it. The people are no longer the same; anger has grown, and anger is about to rise, and on the day that anger arises, those who have created this poverty will seek refuge. This country will then return to the paradise of the people, the real world of the people.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0008par0074	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0007par0075	What do we want? We want a world without class, without exploitation; we want a country where we will live in a human way; we want a world where people are not oppressed by language, identity, ethnicity, faith, and class identity; we want a world where the poor and the rich are gone; and there's only one way to do it, where everyone lives in a brotherly way, and the Antwerp farmer says, and I want to finish it in his words: let the revolution live, let the Socialism. [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for a moment. If I run out of time... We have a parking lot outside the PR building, and there are traffic police officers stationed in that parking lot. It's winter, and I see them out there every time I come. It's probably the Clave's job to build them a hut in the cold, a hut to warm up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0009par0080	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0007par0081	I expect this Parliament, especially through you, to take the necessary measures from the Parliament to ensure that these police officers do not remain exposed in the middle of winter during this difficult period. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0009par0084	We'll talk to the Secretary General. Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Oğuz Kaan Salici. Here you go, Mr. Salici.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0010par0089	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th amendment of the budget proposal. Dear friends, we are in heavy economic distress. Everyone's trying to express this crisis in their own language, in their own eyes, in their own savings. We're talking about the budget, while the budget's still being talked about, in exchange for the exchange, it's pretty much melted down from the first time it was offered to Congress. The ruling parties that are likely to be attempting to bring in an additional budget. So, in the coming days, we're also going to talk about an additional budget, because the budget has become a budget stiff because of the increase in currency, even in the total amount of time that the budget has come to the House, the Commission, because of the lack of solutions to the situation. You remember, after the June elections in 2018, Turkey suffered a severe courtship shock. The ruling party then said: "This is the intervention of external forces." In fact, there is no problem in Turkey, there is no economic jam in Turkey, there is no explanation in the United States that means that we can increase the interest declared by the Central Bank in 2013, so there is no measure taken, but this is a matter of foreign powers. So outside forces are interfering with us, and therefore Turkey is going into economic trouble. It was called the "Rahip Brunson" crisis. After that, dialogue became even more interesting, the minister of al, the priest of the king. He reached a point called "AI priest, give it to the priest." The sentence already describes the situation in which he was brought to justice alone in Turkey. (CHP cheers) Father Brunson is gone, Father Brunson is gone, but the crisis remains. The crisis became permanent in Turkey after the swift instruction to the judiciary sent to the United States by Father Brunson. It's been over three years, and in a situation that's been even tighter in the period, Turkey is clearly in a crisis that we haven't experienced in three years, with the recent, much faster wooing shocks we've had in the last month. Turkey has had crises before, Turkey has had crises during different ruling periods. Turkey's crises would have had a crisis in the form of a (V), the economy would have narrowed down quickly, but due to measures taken, the Turkish economy would quickly go into the process of exiting because it was dynamic, and in a year or a year and a half, the economy would recover. Remember, the Justice and Development Party came to power after such a crisis in 2002. So the crisis was a political party that brought the crisis to power, the Justice and Development Party. Then it became permanent in power. Now, we have an understanding that can't handle this crisis. Clearly, here's our citizen, who is fighting with tails in front of the public bread buffets, because of the $3.5 lira of bagels, because of the rising price of bread, despite the opposition of members of the Justice and Development Party -- in front of the Republican People's Party Mayor, where he has increased the number of bread buffets -- in front of the public bread buffets. It's winter ahead, and there's no advice on how to warm up a citizen this winter. Natural gas prices are setting a record in both Turkey and the world, with electricity prices rising. What will the citizen warm up with? He'll either head for the coal or head for the wood. There's a rise in price in wood, and there's a rise in price in coal. There is no increase in the income of the citizen in any way. Therefore, a small-income citizen will be at a point where he has a job, works, but can't support his family, and this winter will be at a point where he can't afford his own warm-up. Despite all this, we, the Republican People's Party, as an example of responsible opposition, have presented our proposals for solutions after each outbreak, after the crisis, since the shock of the courtship in August 2018. We said, "Look, these are the things that need to be done in the country." So far, the Justice and Development Party has not changed its line, not only because the opposition has proposed proposals from the opposition during its 20 years of power, but has not taken into account our proposals that the economic crisis could be overcome in Turkey. At the point where we're here today, it's still being said that the outside forces, which began with Father Brunson in 2018, are interfering with Turkey. So, if you ask, there's no problem in Turkey, Turkey's dynamics are very healthy, Turkey's economy is on its way, but, uh, these external forces, these external forces are constantly interfering with Turkey, and as a result of their intervention, Turkey falls into this situation, even though it doesn't deserve it at all. Now, I'm going to give you a few examples of these, and actually, the crisis itself created by the palace itself, is it a crisis that Turkey fell into even more clearly after it was passed into the presidential system, or is it a crisis that came out of the outside by outside attacks, and we've made that a little bit more clear. Dear friends, the President of the Central Bank Naci Agbal has relieved Mr. President of his duties, one Friday at midnight, and one night at midnight. By the time he got up on Monday, this country was up a dollar, up a dollar. Now, if there's a fairy tale of external forces and there's a state of external power, who ordered Naci Agbal to resign, and who signed it? Did the outside forces give you that order? Who signed that decree? Recep Erdogan signed it. Well, there were other changes at the Central Bank after that. Two vice presidents, one member of the money market board has been replaced. After that, the exchange continued to rise. Then there were other changes. Stabilisedly, the Central Bank continued to lower interest, lower interest at each meeting; sometimes it dropped 200 base points; sometimes it dropped 100 base points. And after every interest drop, there's been an increase in currency rates. There was an inflation that was already beginning to rise, there was a high inflation, and there was an inflation that even the TÜİK could no longer make up. He increased inflation and began to reflect the public's buying power as a price increase as a cost of life. Now, did foreign forces make you decide all these steps that made significant changes in the economy in Turkey, making the exchange rate even bigger, increasing inflation, making the cost of living even more expensive? Are you doing business under the orders of the outside forces? Why didn't you resist it, why didn't you resist it, why didn't you say we would protect the rights and the law of the citizens? Why didn't you say, "Why didn't you resist?" Dear friends, this issue of external powers is a topic that Turkey's Justice and Development Party brings to the attention as it gets stuck, when it's stuck, when it's stuck. On the other hand, Mr. Erdogan has founded the Party of Justice and Development, but he hasn't been elected yet, so there's also a custom in this country when something happens to us, we call it foreign forces, we call them this, we call them this, we call them that. I mean, that may be true, but I can't agree with that. Why can't I agree? If your body is strong, if your body is strong, the virus within it can never harm your body, says Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself. But when? In opposition, he says. We agree with what Mr. Erdogan said; the words of Mr. Erdogan, we agree with those words, but today, the Speakers of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Erdoğan, are taking economic decisions that led Turkey to disaster in a very different way than what he had said that day. Now, Mr. Secretary has changed, we have a new Minister, a direct Minister. In the coming days, the media is going to be even happier with Mr. Secretary's statements. In a closed meeting, the Minister says: "Don't think about raising interest, so we won't use the interest weapon. We will do other things in the coming days, but in what we're experiencing, in this wooing shock, there is no outside intervention in this ordeal. Now, the precious Speakers of the Justice and Development Party, your Minister does not believe the story you're talking about. (CHP clapping in rows) The words he said at the closed meeting are reflected in the press. What we're seeing is that the words we just said... that Turkey's current economic distress has nothing to do with external forces or anything. Even if there is, a solid country can eliminate these attacks, but when Turkey has passed through the presidential system, when Turkey has been managed by one person, these shocks, these crises have become unstoppable. Keeping Turkey in crisis for more than three years has been given to you, and I hope to change you will be given to us. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit01spe0011par0100	Congressmans, I'm going to take a 15-minute break from the merger, and I'm going to invite our Deputy Group Presidents to the back of the podium.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0011par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. On behalf of the individuals, we stayed in talks. The first word is Mr. Özcan Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0012par0012	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the 5th Amendment of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the High Council. We call it justice as the Country Party, we want justice in the judiciary, we want justice in education, we want justice in agriculture, we call it justice in income, we call it justice in Parliament, we call it justice in speech; we want teachers who have to work construction because they don't have the appointment, they don't have to die from a business accident. It's not as if the minimum wage-setting process was expected to win a jackpot on New Year's Eve, but the government that the worker trusts in his country gives me my right. We promise the power of a Country Party he calls. Dear lawmakers, our primary duty as elected deputies is to make a budget. Instead of 600 elected deputies, he made the budget a single man; he presented the people's will by one man, a man who was out of line with every word he said. As you know, the budget is submitted to the House seventy-five days before it is approved. The budget, which is 195 billion when presented, is now 123 billion dollars. The budget has started with 72 billion dollars missing before it has been approved, and 600 lawmakers have not been able to intervene. We'll lower the interest since September. You say. The interest has increased by six percent, the rate has increased by 60 percent, and the risk has increased by 250 points. Despite all the beatings you've wasted, you haven't contributed an ounce to the country's economy. Economics is a science, a work of righteousness. Unfortunately, you've ruined the country because you're far from science, mind, law, integrity. Dear MPs, Mr. President, it means that President Tayyip Erdogan in 2016 is to be destroyed. The state has put itself in the state's place, but it must not be forgotten that the state cannot be compared to the back of a person. Mr. President, who was held at the door ahead of the meeting with the President of Russia, may have suffered a personal loss of reputation due to Putin. But it is not up to anyone to undermine the state's reputation by inviting the Prince of the United Arab Emirates, accused of being a terrorist and a coupger, to the country for money at the press conference in Qatar. And it's not right for the opposition, who's constantly arming us and not giving up on the NYD, who's begging for democracy from the United States. You people, reduce the loans to the citizens. You can't save on dignity. Stop saying that. If you sell 10 of the president's planes, half of the state's luxury power vehicles, cut the budget of the palace in half, you don't need the United Arab Emirates, or Qatar. Dear lawmakers, the state government requires seriousness. Why we cry out, "Liberty, righteousness. " The things that have happened in this short period have shown more and more. They'll wish my house had burned down, too. We've all seen together in this year that even a man with a photo of his terrorist organization was brought to the ministry, who was the general manager of his 40m-euro tender, who sold disinfectant to his institution. Dear lawmakers, the ship sinks with what's on board. You see things wrong, but you can't say them. If you were as afraid of getting the rights as you were of the chief, if you loved your seats as much as you loved the country, the country wouldn't be like this. We call it a homeland, a land, a land of blue, and a land of heaven, and you try to brand the honorable people of this country a terrorist. In our country, you can't call our students from Boğaziçi, ODTÜ, who want to seek their rights democratically; in the wrong places; in the wrong places; in the village, the environmentalists; in the onion and potato manufacturer; in the markets, because of the food prices you've turned upside down; in the markets, you can't call them terrorists. Rant terrorism is in the country, and it's because of the five-alarm gang you've always claimed. My promise is to the opposition here.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0013par0019	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0012par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. It's not democratic to submit proposals that are clearly unacceptable. Come and change your party code before you even have to change the Law of Political Parties. Let members decide who the general president, lawmakers, mayors will be. Leave the quotas, bring the zipper system to your party code. Next semester, I want at least half of these seats filled with our female friends, and I say we go for it. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the budget of 2022 would bring prosperity and happiness to our country and our people, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0014par0023	The second word for the individual belongs to Mr. Turabi Kayan. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0015par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the 5th Amendment of the Central Management Budget Act of 2022. I salute the High Council. You can't keep the currency because the Federal Reserve is full-fledged. Every door you knock on to beg for a loan closes in your face. The national income rate of foreign debt is increasing day by day. The burden of debt has become unbearable. The collapse of governments is because of corrupt rulers. He calls our citizen who took a loan and beat him to a pulp. Your Vice President is saying that he is immoral to our people who are receiving foreign currency with his loan. The real immorality is to make $128 billion at nothing, the real immorality is to destroy $780 million in Agriculture Bank, the real immorality is to pursue the Tank Palet Factory, and the real immorality is to get 2, 3, 4 or even 5 salaries. From the day you were in power, you spent 2.5 trillion dollars from our people. If you'd built factories with these coins, we'd be a foreign currency country today rather than looking for currency. There's no saving power, you say. Here, this understanding of yours encourages consumption, not production. It also gave birth to a huge budget deficit. The government's debt keeps growing, and the hole in the citizen's pocket is getting bigger. You're saying there's no crisis. Inflation has increased 100 percent in a year, but the citizen's salary has not increased by a dollar or a penny. Citizens are hungry, citizens are unemployed, the number of bankruptcys is booming, new ones are added to the unemployed army every day. Make sure the bridges are guaranteed to pass, the roads guaranteed to pass, the hospital guaranteed to the sick, the prison guaranteed to the prisoners, so that your gang of five will not be unemployed. We can't have peace. You're beating and detaining students who say, "We can't have peace." You're condemning our young children who are trying to do neutral news on social media to house arrest. What needs to be done is to bring prosperity to the people. Then no one will stand in front of you and put themselves under arrest. Our farmer can't pay his debt, he can't throw fertilizer in his field. Students are in debt; workers, officers, pensioners; shopkeepers, industrialists; farmers are in debt; our unborn children are in debt; and most importantly, our country is in debt. The foreign debt exceeds $600 billion. AKP lawmakers, I ask you, how will these debts be paid if we don't produce them? And these debts, no doubt, will be repaid by debt. You're looking for debt, and when you can't find it, you're riding on the back of a citizen with devaluation. You raise taxes and raise everything from needle to thread. You still can't get out of it. The foreign investor is not coming to our country, the local investor is running away from our country. Because there's no justice, because there's no law, there's no freedom, there's no stability, but most importantly, there's no property and safety. You owe it to the workers, the workers you've taxed, the workers you've exploited for 19 years, the young people you've been playing with by turning education into a puzzle board, the lives you've lost on the train tracks, the women you've lost every day, the nature you've lost. I speak to our people and farmers from all over our land: the value of one field is 17,000 lira, the price of 1 ton of fertilizer is 17,000 lira, which means every year the farmer has to sell 1 yard of fertilizer to throw fertilizer into 40 acres, so our farmer won't have to sell it all, not 40 years later. Aren't you ashamed to take sacrifices from strangers during the victims' festivals? Aren't you ashamed of importing hay in the land of agriculture? If you say we're hungry, reduce your stocks. Don't you ever blush?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0016par0037	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0015par0038	Nearly 100 teachers waiting for the appointment commit suicide, and your conscience does not ache? Don't our teachers ever hurt you when they have to do other things to support your home? Aren't you ashamed of making guarantees of payment and disbursing our citizens to your followers? There are wild partisans, wild torpedoes, wild nepotism, wild sides all over the house; aren't you ashamed of this violence, my friends? Aren't you ashamed to go to Russia's gate and wait for minutes, martyring 34 of our soldiers? Where have you been in the dark depths of Turkey that have been trying to become civilized for 200 years, trying to democratize for a hundred years? Doesn't this lag embarrass you at all? Thanks to you, Turkey is having its darkest days, but there's no need to despair. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say the darkest darkness of the night is the harbinger of the day. I'm talking about what's coming. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0016par0042	Thank you, Mr. Kayan.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0017par0043	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0018par0044	We're finally talking, Muhammad Abi.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0017par0045	Mr. President, just for the record...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0018par0046	Finally, but we've decided, we've decided together.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0017par0047	I'm just stating that we're denying the charges.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0018par0048	Finally, finally. We're not saying anything.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0017par0049	I declare that we have denied your charges, that we have denied the allegations.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0019par0050	Congressmans, no questions, no answers. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 5th article has been accepted. Transfer, add, reset and abort operations ADADDE 6- (1) Under the general budget budget or budgetary budget between public administrations and budgetary budgets (01), (03), (05), (06), (07), (08) and (09) to ensure the use of public budgets to ensure that other public administrations' surplus funds can be used in the care of the grants for effective and efficient use through these provisions; (02), (05), (06), (07) and (09) to ensure that the budgets are used in priority services. (2) Under the general budget, public administrations are authorized to transfer their funds to the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change budget as part of the 10/7/2018 presidential decree for the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change. (3) The National Ministry of Defence, General Command, Security General Directorate and Coast Guard Command are authorized to transfer the funds for supply and supply services, which must be managed from one centre. (4) The budgetary budgetary administrations and regulatory institutions (B) are entitled to state administrations in accordance with the procedures and fundamentals set up by the presidency to add the budgets of the administration and institutions to the current or new structures of the budgets, which exceed the net amount of financing mentioned on the table marked (F). In 2021, the special budgetary administrations that receive treasury assistance are used to provide funding for the budgets of private budgetary budgets,.06-Sinner Expenses, and.07-Cinner Transfers, in line with the implementation of the 2022 Year Program, Co-ordination and Surveillance Decision, or the need for funding for new projects. (5) Government budgets under the central administration are authorized to transfer funds to the public administration budget to run the service within the year. As part of this joke, funding transfers between public administrations under the general budget are carried out by transfer of funds. Other funding transfers between administrations under the central management budget are carried out by saving budget costs. The sums collected in response to these transactions come to a table marked by the relevant public administration (B) on the one hand, and on the other hand, the (A) tablet (14) is recorded in the budget arrangements containing the intersources for financing. Admins are authorized to save creditable funds for the same purpose as the unspendable parts of these funds. However, administrations are within the framework of procedures and foundations that will be determined by the President to cancel and extradite the unspent sums left behind by those who have been intended to allocated from these funds. (6) The National Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the Police, Coast Guard Command and Security Directorate 2021 (exclusive budgets for special grants and provision and Funeral Expenses (e.g. 3.09) and the economic code (e.g. General Directorate Security Services Investments (except the arrangements for the operation)) and the funds for capital expenses (e.g. 30 per cent of which are not spent within the year of the budget to ensure the continuity of the budget of these arrangements and to save 30 per cent of the budget for the sum of the funds which have been earmarked in order to ensure continued service. B) The second joke of Article 21 of Tourism Instruction Act 2634, dated 12/3/1982, according to the second joke of Article 21 of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which includes the economic code of the 2021 budget under 18.36 and 18.60 institutional code (03), is that the Ministry budget does not pay for the same codes, which includes the same codes. C) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency (TUBITAK) budget of 2021 is 56-49. 33-02-07. Parts of Turkey's Research Area (TARAL) grants in the 01 setup are not spent to register a grant to the institutional budget's relevant arrangement, The Ministry of Industry and Technology budget of 2021 is 17-19. 31-01-05. 04 and 17-19. 39-01-05. Design Supports, Basic Sciences Agreement Ar-ge Staff Supports, Technological Product Investment Supports, Technological Product Credit and Marketing Support and Parts of the Fund (05.04) that are not being spent on funds for Precompetitive Co-operation Support (2005.04), are being earmarked for the Minister's budget's economic code. D) Treasury and Finance Ministry budget of 2021 19-12.41-01-07. 02, 19-12.41-01-05. It is part of the 06 organisers that are not spent on aid funds for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and is 19,12,41-01-08. Parts of the grants in the 02 scheme are not being used to save credits to the relevant arrangements of the Ministry budget, (e) Security Directorate General Directorate General Security Services Investments of the budget of 2021 to register non-expenses from investment funds under the operation of the Security Service, to register a grant to the relevant arrangements of the General Manager's budget, F) It is the President's authority to save income from the fixed budget (B) to save income and to transfer funds that have not been spent within 2021 to the budget due to the budgetary budget and to set a basis for the transactions set up by the general budget (B). Yes, the first word on behalf of the group is Mr. Dursun Atash.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0020par0067	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0019par0068	Mr. Beştaş, I dived, I promised, Mr. Dursun I'll promise you when he's finished.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0020par0069	Okay, okay.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0019par0070	Mr. Paperman, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0021par0072	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Group on Article 6 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the great Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly. Dear lawmakers, central management budgets all over the world show how and how the revenues will be collected from whom and how they will be collected within the year, where and how these revenues will be spent. It is clear from whom revenues will be collected and to whom revenues will be transferred in the 2022 poverty and corruption budget. In the budget of this absence and poverty, money will be given to Qatar, who has been taken from the oppressed citizen and plundered our country. It shall be taken from the officer who cannot bring the end of the month, and from the worker, to the former enemy, the new friend, to the United Arab Emirates. It will be handed down from pensioners who can't even go to the market to those who are rich in state contracts. It will be taken from the shop that can't do anything and transferred over the foundations to relatives. It will be taken from minimum wagers, 3-5 paid advisers, comrades, court clowns, who work a full day and a half to get a package of toilet paper. The money from a college graduate unemployed youth will be spent on palaces. It will be taken from the old man who can't even buy his grandson a candy bar, to the protection armies, to the luxury planes of the palace, to the waste of it, and to the dawn. The money from the farmer who has become inequity of his field will be transferred from the budget of the Ministry of Transport to the contractors who are unable to farm the tractor, the uncut bridges, the non-flying airports, the unustainable highways, the tunnels that the citizens cannot use for the price of, so the government itself will not do its own work, and the Ministry of Health will transfer $22 billion from the budget. As a result, this $43 billion is more than the budget of nine of the 17 ministries, 37 per cent of the Ministry of Health budget, 66 per cent of the Ministry of Agriculture budget. He was mortgaged with guarantee payments for at least 25 years of our country. Moreover, since it is 43 billion lira in foreign currency indexed to guarantee payments, it is calculated when the dollar is around $9, which is at least 50 percent higher today. Precious lawmakers, at least 43 billion euros from one side to other contractors, on the other hand, there is no less than 1% of agricultural support in the illegal domestic product of the Agricultural Law. The sentence continues to be violated. Support held at 0.5 per cent for years has been reduced to 0.4 per cent in recent years and 0.3 per cent in 2022. The budget is divided into agricultural benefits at $25.8 billion, although the support needed to be given to the farmer should be at least 78.8 billion. On the other hand, 19% of the health ministry's $114 billion budget, which does not pay the health workers fairly, will be transferred to city hospitals. So this budget is the budget of the manufacturer, the worker, the farmer's budget, not the government's resources, the contractors who are exploiting people's wealth with money. So this budget is not the budget of life-saving healthcare workers, but of contractors who mortgaged the future of our children by building concrete buildings. Dear lawmakers, another place where the citizen's money will be transferred in the budget of 2022 is the interest the President has declared enemies in each speech. In the 2021 budget, interest costs increased by more than 30 per cent compared to 2020 to 180 billion euros, and in the 2022 budget, the interest rate increased by 60 billion more than the previous year to 240.4 billion dollars. Moreover, with a new rate increase in economists' calculations, the interest rate is expected to be at least 350 billion Turkish liras. Even in the 2002 crisis, the money spent on interest was $50 billion, and I am against interest today. The AKP, which says, transfers 6-7 times the amount paid in 2002 to the interest lobby. So in this budget, each Turkish citizen will pay at least 3,000 lira interest. Despite this interest payment, the budget for organised industry and small industrial sites, which will increase production and allow foreign currency to enter our country, is only 1.2 billion liras, which is only 2 percent of the interest. Again, $25.8 billion divided into agricultural benefits is only 10.7 per cent of the interest rate; in other words, at least 240.4 billion is 10 times the support given to farmers. In order to be better understood, the valuable lawmakers will be given $189 billion to the Ministry of National Education and $59 billion to the 129 universities, which will be paid to 27 million students, over 1 million teachers, over 270,000 professors, briefly, more than 246 billion in interest for all education education and research. I'm asking now: O AKP, are you against interest! You're against this nation, not interest. The President recently said that he would not walk with the advocate of interest. Now, Mr. President, whoever has prepared this budget must accept their pardon immediately. Otherwise, our nation will accept the AKP's pardon in the first election. The budget, prepared by the court, is far from the expectations of the citizens. The problems of the citizen's waiting to be resolved are not included in this budget. There is no life in this budget worthy of human honor. This budget is a budget in which the missing are ranked one after the other. We don't have a minimum-paying employee who can't pay the bills, your colleagues, your palace bureaucrats, your contractors, your workers who can't make the month's end; we don't have pensioners who can't even afford to pay for the crisis in Turkey; we don't have a job because the United Arab Emirates can't feed themselves; we don't have a minimum wage worker in this budget; we don't have a budget; we don't have a budget; we don't have an employee who can't pay their bills; we don't have a budget; we don't have a budget; we don't have an employee, we don't have an employee who can't have a child who can't pay their bills; we don't have no money; we don't have a child who can't have an employee, we don't have an employee who can't have a bank, we don't have an employee who can't have a budget; we don't have an employee who can't have a mortgage, we don't have a budget; we don't have a budget, we don't have an employee who can't have no one who can't have a mortgage, we don't have no one who doesn't have no one who can't have a mortgage, we don't have a mortgage, we don't have a bank, we don't have a bank, we don't have no one who can't have a bank, we don't have a bank, we don't have a budget; we don't have a bank, we don't have a bank, we don't have no staff, we don't have no one who doesn't have no staff, we don't have no staff who doesn't have no money, we don't have no staff who doesn't have a bank, we don't have no staff who doesn't have a job, we don't have a bank, we don't have no staff who can't have a bank, we don't have no staff, we don't have no staff who can't have no staff who can't have a bank, and we don't have a job, we don't have a Dear lawmakers, as a result, there are supporters in this budget, no citizens. As our President-in-Chief Coral Akşener said, there is no solution in AKP's budget for 2022, to poverty, inflation, unemployment, the injustice of revenue distribution. This budget says it's the budget of the AKP's last stake on our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0022par0082	Mr. Beştaş, please take your seat.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0023par0083	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, we always have to share the bad news from here. Two sick prisoners died in one day; one last night, Abdulrezzak Shuyur, who had been in prison for twenty-nine years and had 14 months left to be released, unfortunately he died of cancer. Halil Sun has been held in prison since 1993, he's had a year left, and unfortunately he's had bone cancer, and he's been living with severe painkillers for years, and he's been in quarantine for six months; we learned that he died during the census this morning. We've made a lot of talk about these sick prisoners, and there's not a word that we haven't established, and it's no longer a matter of humanity and conscience that we should expect death in the eyes and eyes of the state and leave it for dead. We are truly sorry, we offer our condolences to those who love their families, and we ask for immediate release of the sick prisoners. Thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0024par0091	The second word for the groups is for Mr. Yasar Montenegro on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Montenegro.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0025par0094	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 6 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear MPs, I'd like to start by starting with my constituency, Iğdur. Iğdır is the strategically opening door to the Turkish world at the intersection of four countries; it opens to the Turkish world just north of Armenia, east of the Nahçivan, and to the southeast border with Iran. Now, when we evaluate Iğdır as geographical, it's known as Çukurova. It is surrounded by high mountains, about 2,000 to 3,000 metres -- the summit of Mount Pain is right next to it -- at the bottom of the 5,100 meths -- and through the middle of the Sürmeli Pit, which is a deceleration plain of 700 to 800 metres, is the Aras River; the north part is in Armenia, and the southern part is the Iğdır. Now, I'd like to talk a little bit about investments and investments that we've been looking forward to in recent years, in our climate-wise, territorially-appropriate province. As I was saying earlier, summer temperatures are highly suitable for growing industrial agricultural products and for growing fruits and vegetables, along with the Aras River, a land with significant water resources, largely watered-down agriculture. Now, especially for the agriculture of Iğdır, the apricots, the peaches, the grapes, except for the citrus, all kinds of fruit, including cotton, which is industrial agricultural products -- the only place grown in Eastern Asia Minor -- has all kinds of agricultural land that other than that can be done. But we've traveled through the summer -- we've traveled through -- our countrymen, the wet farmers -- have expectations. We have an open irrigation system in the 1960s, in the 70s, even some of it in the 80s. It's being taken over the Aras River, some of the water from the Aras River is being transferred to Armenia to the Plain of Iğdır, where our canals are mostly destroyed. It must and must be switched to the indoor irrigation system. One more thing, we have a few dam projects. It's a project to benefit from both drinking water and using water, agriculture, but the most critical is that we have a Tuzluca storage dam, and if that dam is built, the future of Iğdır will be made for a hundred years, and I want to mention that it will contribute to the country's economy with a great potential. In addition, we have several small ponds -- the Lake of Göktaş, the Lake of Aliköse, the Lakes of Alibeyköy, along with a project of about 300 to 400 million, the problem of watering the Plains of Iğdır will be wiped out. Again, we have locals who work in farming, who work in livestock, and they have problems. In particular, there is a small population of 1,300,000 animals in Iğdır. Most of our small animals are grazed in the meadows for ten months. Now, Iğdır is becoming something that meets about 20 to 25 percent of these animals. We've had nomads going to the surrounding provinces for centuries; those who work in livestock -- they have problems where they're going, we're already sharing them with our Ministry of Agriculture. So hopefully, this will be more useful if it's three or four years old, especially when it comes to hiring mera, rather than a one-year-old, as our farmers expect. Dear lawmakers, in recent years, especially about infrastructure, about the sewers, about the roads, other than that, about drinking water... which means it's now an Igdir construction site. We see that there are really serious government investments, people's gardens being built. Well, other than that, parks are mostly invested in roads with gardens, but most importantly, there's a railroad project, this railroad project is now out of the project phase, and it's going to reach its tender size. This is an international project that will reach Baku, via Kars, through Iğdır, through Nahcivan. This also concerns our country, and it concerns the region, which means that China is a Belt, a Completor of a Path Project. Oh, I want to say from a promise of good for every evil: Karabakh, this region has been occupied for thirty years, 1.5 million people have been banished, but really, the state of Azerbaijan, I am the child of that region -- with the great support of Turkey -- with the mind, with the wisdom of the chief, with its great support in the international field, with the support of the lobbying, with the Azerbaijan gave a 40-day homeland war, the homeland combat, the country's martyrs, and this region came, with nearly 3,000 martyrs, and the treaty was signed, and the treaty was signed. With this 40km of Zengezur Corridor, we've kind of got the Turkish world through Turkey-Iğdır, hopefully we'll get back together. (Applause from MHP and AK PARTY) This is a planned integration of both railway lines and landlines, along with a pipeline, through Azerbaijan, through Hazar, Central Asia, Kazakhstan, Kırgyzistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and Turkmenistan. In what sense? We are integrated into this geography where we have a cultural union, a blood relation, and a common history. I'd like to talk to you about that. We're saying, really, now, that the world is fighting a certain pandemic, there's a shape, we're changing power centers, we're witnessing a conflict of power centers, millions of people are disappearing from their homes, their homes, maybe their borders are changing, there's blood flowing in every region, from Syria to Afghanistan, there's chaos, but there's also a position to be really a focus of strength in the way Turkey has followed by politics, the way Turkey has followed. This is one of the most important parts of this. The state of the Republic of Turkey stands in every way. I'm just saying, it's a good thing there's an Agency for the Turkish States. There are 2,720,000 square kilometers of Kazakhstan with 19 million populations. There's 200,000 square kilometers of Kyrgyztan with a population of 6.5 million. There's 500,000 square kilometers of Uzbekistan with 40 million populations. It has close to 500,000 square kilometers, with a population of 6 million, and Turkmenistan. There is 86,600 square kilometers of facial measurement, a Azerbaijan with 10 million populations, and a state of the Republic of Turkey with a facial measurement of 783,562 square kilometers and a population of 84 million. This state, with the permission of Allah, of this Organization of Turkish States -- these will be seen much better in the coming period -- will be the hope of this country, this nation, somewhere, in every field, in education, in the field of economics, in political relations, in the field of culture.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0026par0103	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0025par0104	Thank you, Mayor. However, there will be a focus of power. That's what we've already seen, what we've observed. I assure you, somewhere, it's those who have been trying to stop this union, this Turkish union, from forming this focus of power when it comes to it; they've been trying to take all of our energy with a PKK terrorist organization for over forty-fifty years. They've already been in our capillaries for almost forty-fifty years, trying to get into all of our capillaries and do things that haven't happened in every level of the state, and in this geography, the people who've played all kinds of games in the Turkish world and tried to take our people out of their homeland, but I assure you, the Turkish and Turkish community will succeed. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0027par0108	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Gamze was Akkuk Ingez. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0028par0111	Mr. President, I have been promised the 6th article of the budget. I salute the Veteran Assembly. When I looked at this budget, I remembered a poem by Master Abdurrahim Karakoch, who was also your compass. He says: "The winter is near, there is no wood in the house, there is no oil in the house, there is no flour in the bag, there's no flour in the bag, there's no soap, there's no money in the paper, there's no money in the pocket." Yes, we still listen to stories from power, but even our children don't believe them anymore. Why? You've done exactly the opposite of what you've said since the day you came to power. The three of us will fight against poverty, corruption, bans. You said, "What happened?" You said poverty, let alone defeat, leaving the minimum wage to work four jobs so that it could be considered poor. The poverty limit is over 10,000 liras, so the minimum wage you see fit for millions of workers is not even enough to get them into the poor class today. The shame of it and the plague are yours and yours. You have sold the land of the land, its possessions, its resources, as your late minister, Unakitan. As the late minister said, you have sold it for nothing. You've distributed everything from treasures to tenders to parcels. Is that enough? No. You've raised funds, not people, but a bunch of loan sharks, with taxes you've cut off from the laborer's sweats. The gist of it is that corruption has not been reduced in your cycle, but the work has been reduced, and it has increased in corruption. Yeah, let's get to the bans. Sadly, my beautiful home went back sixty-four years. Look, look at this, look at this poster, this poster that was printed in 1957, it actually means a lot; look again, look again. Why? Because today we can't call a thief a thief because it's forbidden. (CHP) Yes, I mean, we've seen once again that your struggle against prohibitions is also a lie. We've seen that everything you call white is black. If there's any details of the budget, I'd especially like to point out that this is the last budget you've made, thank God, you're leaving. We see that this social murder scheme, which condemns Turkey to total poverty, will be over, and you're leaving, but you're billing people. Yes, it is impossible for those who build their one-man regime, remove their balance control mechanisms, convert the economic method, the Central Bank, and even the TÜİK (TİK) into political weapons to make a budget for the benefit of the public, unthinkable. And you didn't mislead us when millions were writhing in the grip of poverty, creating an army of young people, women, unemployed, working men, pensioners' debt, kitchens were on fire, and poverty and despair spread throughout the country; you aim to grow, grow, produce, employment, investment, savings. But are you doing the economic survival war by selling Turkey, Qatar Qatar (Katar Qatar)? This budget is a budget that comes in front of us as a conspiracy document by pawnbrokers of the country's resources, its ports, its factories. Until yesterday, you boasted of economic stability, and today we will grow. We know what you mean by that. I'm asking you, are you going to grow up with a cash guarantee and a rundown on the highways? Will you grow up legitimizing corruption with dark people like SBK and Zarrab? You're going to grow up emptying $128 billion of government treasure that you vaporized? You're going to grow up with more and more money in the pockets of people you don't care about and who you're paying three or five wages for? Or are you going to rise up the social crisis a little more every day, fueling violence? Unfortunately, our nation, our people, is paying the heavy cost of this tension, with hunger and poverty. He says, "Tevfiq Fikret: "The people are bitter, the people are near death. But eat until you are fed, stuffed, cracked. This is the truth of this budget, my dear friends. The budget is not about economic policies and figures. On the contrary, the tradesman of power is a sign of democracy promised to farmers, workers, pensioners, women, young people. But your indicators are rigged, just like your democracy, because the statistics institution, which won't upset the only man, is constantly playing with the settings of the scale. For example, do you want to increase our national income? Don't be afraid that $200, which was $131 on the day he went into Tedavule, is now 89% melted down to $14. You change the method of computing, you increase the national income, you reflect millions of citizens overnight as if they were enriched even though they weren't real. You didn't? You reflected it. Unemployment? Don't worry about it. If the citizen doesn't report that he's looking for a job, he's already working for you. So you can discharge the unemployed army, and he won't be out of a job there. You didn't? You did it. Budget deficit? It's not worth thinking about. You order the Central Bank to snap, they drop the interest, the reserves melt, but eventually the wheel spins. If there are any objections, you'll be relieved of duty. You didn't get it? You got it. The consumer trust index? It's not a problem. Don't worry. You take out your savings pen, you increase your trust in the economy in the country. Inflation? Let's not hear it. When you calculate, you leave the public shopping cart, you take the palace grocery cart, you cheat the scale, you reduce inflation. You didn't? You did it. Here we go. Yes, you can manipulate Turkey by tampering with data, but you can't change the drama that people experience. Look, there's a lot of alarms in the market today, from milk to cheese, diapers to baby food, that's the painting. Fear God as much as you fear to anger the palace. (Cheers and applause) Remember, there's a owner in the morning/Askers ask one day. Yes, come not with numbers, but with conscience, come with love, come with work, come with hope. We will heal the wounds of our citizens. Remember, the history of man cannot be separated from the history of labor. Therefore, this budget, which has no trace of man in it, is not for labour, because you cannot offer a life of human dignity unless you divide resources for the public. Look, this budget doesn't have the names of women who have been replaced in every aspect of life. Why? Because with seven cents a day, you can't make women stronger. There's no world like this. First, you're going to get equal representation. That's not enough. You'll bring back the Istanbul Convention. And that's not enough, you'll be budgeting for gender equality. Children born with debts don't see a future in the budget either. At 72 cents a day, you can't provide our children with prosperity. You can't stop them from leaving education, you can't stop them from being dragged into crime -- I don't have a tongue, but -- you can't stop them from being abused, forced to marry at an early age; you'll change your mentality first. And young people... what future will you prepare young people for at least 20 cents a day? You can't. You can't just say that young people should not go abroad. You can't just say that, friends, you're going to apply employment policies to them. Can you do it? You can't. Until yesterday, we are no different than Hans, George, or George; so will Ahmet, Mehmet, Ayþe. Unfortunately, 84 million of our citizens today, which you spend six cents a day, are living a life that is not possible for them to live in a healthy way. There's no pension on this budget. It seems you've already retired them from life, waiting to make the rest of their lives at $15 a day after their mandatory expenses have dropped. Look, a 76-year-old citizen says I worked for my government for thirty years; I can't live on my salary, they still pay taxes on my salary. Yes, if you squeeze the stone, you'll get the tax, but you'll no longer get the legal vote of a citizen whose bones are considered to be tightened. [[Applause from CHP rows]] With all due respect, your economic policies have once again shown the AKP why, poverty is a poor consequence. You have no more words, no more faces to look at. In fact, you know as well as I do that this budget is a confession of impossibility. You are complicit in this system that leads the country to disaster for a cause of stubbornness. Not from dignity, but from basic life rights.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0029par0125	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0028par0126	Don't shut up anymore. Not the houses, but the gas bills, which heat the pockets, have come to a halt, but the miniscule. Don't be like them anymore. Eat a pound of meat instead of two kilos. Do not approve of hunger legitimacy by those who say. There is no shortage, there is plenty. Don't let those who say, scheme in the breadlines anymore. ▪ Shorter pay the electricity. Don't let those who say so pay the bill of the thousand-room palace to the citizens anymore. As the ladle wipes away the debt of the neighbour, you must tell the farmer to stop because of his debt to the merchant. To those who are blind to the truth, deaf to the problems, dumb to the despair, why do you reduce life from this reputation? Ask them now, ask them. Yes, I'm afraid you've raised despair in Turkey. Not salve to the wound, you make people need a loaf of bread.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0029par0130	Mr. Ilgezdi, your time is up, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0028par0131	I'd like to finish with a small verse of Hasan Hussein.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0029par0132	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0028par0133	▪ Shared land, looted shores You're not allowed to be absent. It's not a human, it's a plague, it's a marauder's bloodline. Don't worry, it's going, it's coming, it's coming, don't lose hope.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0030par0140	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Tayip Popeye. Mr. Popeye, you have a personal request, and I put it together, and your time is 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Popeye.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0031par0144	Dear people, Mr. President, members of the Council, I salute all listeners, especially all prisoners. The global politics that we have passed through is due to new developments and transformations following a test such as Covid-19. The search for new power, new alliances are at hand. Depending on this, new wars, new preferences, new methods of struggle; the habits of production and consumption are changing. Today's finance is not about splitting into capital camps, but about moving together in every area. It's not as static as it used to be, it's a highly fluid struggle. Even though the internal conflict continues at its core, we are faced with a painting that serves the capitalist system. As we enter a new century, this era will bring forth some political, social and social quests and take some out of play. The Republic of Turkey, which has been going on and on between searching and losing its new axis, will not stand at a minimum of all that is going on. The Republic enters its 100th year with the country's most chaotic turn. We're all struggling with a demand for a regime that is shaped in the interest of a narrow group, where a new ideology is imposed, where social colors and differences are tried to be purged. The AKP and its junior partner clearly enter the republic's 2nd century with a new concept of denial. Especially the Alevis and Kurds, the summit of public intolerance, systematic intolerance of Kurdish, misogynism and the trustee regime give the passwords for what the new system will look like. This understanding, which aims at all the differences in its existence, wants to crush them and create a desert. The current government, rather than solving problems, is developing ways that create bigger problems, indiscriminately. Today, however, there is not even an institution where citizens can communicate their objections. You're always talking about economic miracles, political stability, people who are starving, and you're calling them patience, and you're talking about the good days to come. That's not enough, what they're doing, the economic war to rebuild the future. They're legitimizing the policy of collapse. Of course, there's another mind working here. A radicalized and polarized domestic policy is being tried to re-design the state through fear and fear to anyone who ignores a land-marketing foreign policy community, which is changing daily. Almost all opposition suppression, the demand for equality and freedom of Kurds, the struggle of women, the struggle of left-wing socialist democratic forces, is intended to be broken, and most importantly, to align everyone except the AKP-MHP. In fact, to this end, the power and propaganda devices are in charge of breaking up the opposition with all its might. Of course, it's not just a political style of today, it's a journey of evil that pushes up the ladder to the politics of destruction of the past, and it's rising above it, and it's turning into today's ruin. He has maintained his antidemocratic character in spite of all democratic quests since the Republic's establishment. The differences were seen as a danger in this order. The focus of this policy is denial. It was an absolute denial of the Kurds, Armenians and all other peoples, and as a result of it, it was a policy of destruction. In particular, between 1923 and 1938, the 1950-1980 period and the current state policy and political line are filled with exemplary lessons. All identities have been crushed under the politics of denial, all values have been consumed to ensure the success of denial-axis politics, wasted, all riches consumed to dominate the monotheistic mentality. The existence of systematic coups, military intervention, credits and economic crises throughout the Republic's history has cost society a great deal. The AKP is at war with society today in this uncertainty, in the state of war with law, in the state of war with women, young people, in the state of war with justice, in the state of war with nature, in the war with workers and workers, the AKP is most likely at war with Kurds. Your power is going door to door to attack Kurds. America and Russia, on the other hand, are now entering the Middle East and making joint plans by mutual agreement, not by rough contradictions. Therefore, Turkey has no use for these contradictions, and you need to see this. Turkey cannot have an active force in the Middle East, with a sense of Ottomanism based on Russia or America in the process. He could only do so by democratizing the Kurdish problem, but the current government has largely missed the opportunity. Look, even though democratization is painfully ongoing today in all Middle East countries except Turkey. Today in the Middle East, the leading dynamic of democratisation and development is the Kurds of Northern and East Syria, which you attack every day. Yes, the Rojava model has led to serious search in the Arab world. The AKP-MHP alliance's policies are now at an impasse both outside and inside; its presence is now linked to its war against Kurds. However, you know that even the Arab League openly opposes Turkey's war policy, its military orientation towards Syria and Iraq. I'm fighting against terror now. No one believes in their nonsense and their thesis. In fact, Arab countries see that power is associated with organizations that they see as terrorists, and they know that Turkey is the focus of instability in all Arab countries. Dear friends, as we have repeatedly expressed the Kurdish problem, it is the most fundamental and fundamental problem in this country. No matter what power or understanding does not approach this problem, it is doomed to fall apart. As we look at the recent period, the lack of solutions to the Kurdish problem has left eight prime ministers in just a quarter of a century, 13 rulings in the wastebasket of politics. For half a century, developing governments, ruling governments, coups, how the rulings of the people of Turkey, when they do not resolve the Kurdish problem, have melted down and disappeared -- despite all their persecution and practice against the people, all the robberies, looting, and massacres that have been committed against the Kurds.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0032par0150	Lies, lies, lies.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0033par0151	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0031par0152	...that they were not able to be -- how they looked at the bottom when they were most powerful -- and so far, the best example of that was the government of the Cillers, and then the AKP and the MHP will be in power.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0034par0154	There's no Kurdish problem, there's no terror problem.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0031par0155	Enmity with Kurds is the republic's greatest deadlock, which should now be seen; the current ruling bloc is the last example. This power will be resolved as much as it left unresolved, and unless it comes to the matter properly, it will have to wait helplessly for the same outcome. It's a known rule of the economy, you know, that everything that remains unresolved goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and The state's totalistic practices, the effort to develop national unity and unity only through Turkishness, are the key to deepening indecision. Today, larger operations against Kurds of power are covered by the economic values of Turkey's people, Turkey's geography, its nature, people's labor. Although all of this is covered by Kurdish hostility, all masks are now dropped in the face of the persistent struggle of Kurdish people and democratic forces. Only everyone who looked at this political and social problem from a security and public perspective lost. However, if the state's mind were to approach the solution, it could give the country great political, social, economic advantages and depth. You're not going to get anywhere by continuing operations into the Iraqi Federal Kurdistan area, by bombing Shengal, by constantly attacking North and East Syria, by making demographic changes, by deepening the prisons into battlefields, by making cases to close to political search, you're going to have to understand that. Today, the government imposes a heavy political and physical isolation on Mr. Ocalan, undermining all laws in Imran. We are faced with a power that is afraid of a single sentence of Ocalan, so you make a few words spoken in the air conditioning, in sports, the subject of discipline. This is the state of a power that weakens, fearing the fall of the throne; you are weak, so you deepen isolation. Fear does not help at all because the assessments of Ocalan will continue to contribute to social peace and democratic solution.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0035par0158	Isn't Ocalan a terrorist?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0031par0159	Respected Parliament, you can solve the Kurdish problem in Ankara, you can solve it in Diyarbakır, because you know that the solution to this problem is not outside.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0036par0160	There's no Kurdish problem, there's no terror problem!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0031par0161	Imperialist states don't want the solution to the problem. As Mr. Ocalan emphasised, war policies and unresolvedness are to sell more weapons for them, to show more power to the government. We've seen that this war has brought nothing to anyone but the international forces and the war lobby that have been decimated from the conflict. The evaluation of democratic negotiating methods was supposed to be the basic task of channeling the resources that were poured into the war to benefit the community, but you missed this opportunity. It is our warning to power: See now the great storm that surrounds you and draws near. In this storm, the government's mind either initiates a transition process that leaves the present state behind, or it leads society to disaster with a structure that rots everything it touches like these days. A democratic relationship with Kurds, a framework of rights and law, a policy that supports and protects women's gains, and a discreet contact with all faiths and identities is in the best interest of this country. Why are you afraid of that? You have to apply the economy not for a group, but for everyone, not for a group, but for everyone; otherwise, all situations go back, deepen the contradictions, sink you. That's why we say that you should first abandon this obedient mindset of yours. So we say that democratic politics, democratic negotiations and honorable peace are the only things that will change the fate of this country. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, in Turkey, the struggle and resistance of the forces that wanted radical democracy also encouraged all other opposition forces. The political alliances under HDP's roof, the democratic forces, women's struggle, young people, Alevis and workers in HDP's relationship, have barricaded the front of this tyrannical power. Turkey's AKP has closed its period of DP. In this country, which will now go to the election, the rulings will be busy collecting this wreck for a long time. Since Turkey's Kurdish people's demand for freedom has not been purged, governance and power in Turkey is a solution to the Kurdish problem. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One moment, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0037par0167	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0031par0168	Whatever power and political understanding is aimed at power, first, must reveal the solution programme. We, as HDP, do not want a republic that ignores identities, locks us in strict definitions, polarizes our social problems rather than solves them, vowing to survive in crisis and chaos, making poverty fateful. What we need is a democratic republic; HDP is the address of this. Speaking of HDP, I also want to remind you that the approach to HDP is an approach to the democracy of this country, to the future of this country; HDP is a representative of the public freedom trend; a tree is a tree in the region; a forest in the region of the Gezim, a worker in Somaʹ, a student in the park. (Applause from HDP rows) In Kerbela, Hüseyin is Mazlum. In Diyarbakır prison, Ceylan, Berkin is the hanging look of Dilek.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0037par0171	Mr. Popeye, your time is up; thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0031par0172	Its main duty is to defend society. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0037par0174	Second word on his behalf, Mr. Cemal Wait. Mr. Wait, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0038par0177	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I salute you with respect and conversation. Friends, from the opening of our Parliament to this day, under this roof, I honor all of our MPs who have served our beloved nation and our country by the principle of the sovereignty of the nation and the superiority of the national will. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As the 100th year of our Republic came, the world faced a global crisis. The crisis, along with its pandemic in 2020, has deepened, and it is clear that the increase in commodity prices, the increase in dollars at 30 per cent in value, the increase in oil at 35% and the increase in gas at Brent, has also shaken the world's economy deeply. The rise in food prices, the breaking of supply chains, and especially the damage to the service sector have affected the world's economy in huge proportions. Despite all this, we've been able to set an example with the policies and reflexes we've set as Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0039par0182	Cemal, leave the world, come to the Roma. Come to the novels, leave the world, you're a Roman MP.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0038par0183	While the world's most advanced countries are failing one class at a time, we are at the top of the top of the country, with a broad and comprehensive social policy attack, especially our health policies. We have been the pioneers of our farmers, our workers, our tradesmen, our paramedics, our teachers, our teachers, tomorrow's guarantees to our young people, our women, our children, our old yeast of our lands, our policies toward all parts of the secular society, and we have been the pioneers of the social state. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Besides all that, we never left culture and art behind, the most important indicator of the powerful state. With the support of our artists during the epidemic, we have also maintained our culture, our art lives.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0040par0187	Tell of the poverty of novels, the poverty of novels.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0041par0188	Guys, excuse me, this is outrageous!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0038par0189	The opening of the Ataturk Cultural Center and the support we provide by saying, "Don't shut up the music!" are the best examples of this situation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0040par0191	Tell me about the poverty of novels!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0038par0192	Friends, don't worry, I'll come to the Roma. I'll come to the Roma.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0042par0193	Mr. Wait, you're uncomfortable when you talk, don't!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0038par0194	In short, we've built all our policies on our right-based understanding, but unfortunately, someone has already forgotten their understanding, their style. To remind us of our actions against the idle words of those whose dreams can't even reach our truths would be the best answer. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. President, I don't know who you're sending messages to, but as the Cumhur Alliance, we, God willing, are the ones who threaten the government's officers and businessmen using the mask of legitimacy, mouthfuls of blasphemy to their fellow martyrs, the ones who are coming, the ones who are coming; I don't know who you're with, who you're sending messages to; and we, the Cumhur Alliance, are the ones who, by the permission of God, are going to make the 2024 budget from here. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Look, guys, don't talk like that, we've only put our backs to our nation, trusted their prayers. We never acted out of spiteful ignorance, by God's leave. That's why we've been doing this budget for 19 years, even if it's hard for you. We're making this budget with love in our hearts, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0043par0199	Say thank you, thank you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0038par0200	We're doing this budget with this love, and without that love in your heart, she can't understand our dreams or what we're doing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0043par0202	Thank the city, the city!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0038par0203	Look, I can explain our projects for hours, but I want to give you the sample from my beautiful city, Izmir. You all remember the October 30th earthquake...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0043par0204	Say thank you to Izmir Metropolitan Municipality!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0044par0205	You'll thank the city!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0045par0206	Guys, please, please, don't!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0046par0207	After the earthquake, all of Izmir became one heart, and we fulfilled all our promises, praise be to God. We returned the dwellings to its owners, we delivered the offices, the Alsancak Stadium, and the 96 major projects... (Look, the voices, the applause from the AK PARTY)... and I'm telling you the difference of vision between us; we hosted our leader, our President, our President, our President, and our President, in Izmir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0047par0210	If he does, he'll do an AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0045par0211	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0048par0212	Tell me about the poverty of novels! Let go, for God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0049par0213	We don't understand that you're understanding the vision that you're building, building, building, building, building, building, building, building, domestic tank, domestic satellites, building roads, tunneling, resolving Ayasophia, day-to-days for domestic aircraft engine and aircraft carriers, energy-to-independent policies around the world, building, building, building the quarterback Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0050par0214	Yeah, the Romans are starving, dying! The Romans are dying!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0051par0215	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0052par0216	What's in this budget for our Roman brothers? Tell us about him!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0217	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're not just budgeting this nation today, we're taking a stand here, we're the only hope of a persecuted geography, we're the country. What are you doing in Libya? What are you doing in Libya?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0052par0218	And what was done for our Roman brothers in this budget? Tell me about him!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0219	...take the flag on the shoulders of the oppressed...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0054par0220	Way to go!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0052par0221	What's in the budget for our Roma brothers?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0222	...you don't understand what it means to be on the street with the slogans of Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0055par0223	Musicians commit suicide, suicide!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0224	We, when it comes to it, are in Esma's bullet-eating body...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0056par0226	Finish your time.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0055par0227	The musicians killed themselves!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0228	...in the tears of a Syrian boy...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0055par0229	Cemal wait, the musicians committed suicide, suicide! The musicians are dead!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0230	...in the cry of a gay father, in the prayer of a Kashmirite grandfather, we knew hope, by God's leave!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0057par0232	What's in this budget for the Roma, what's in it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0233	With all our organizations, we have become united hearts, calling the world greater than the world of five. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Guys, don't tell me for nothing. Every chance you get, Mr. Purchu, who cheapens the talk of money, money, and Roma, what did he do? You say, "What did the AK PARTY do?" I'll tell you right away what the AK PARTY did.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0058par0236	There's no toilet in Romantown!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0237	It is the name of the party that has made this country's other beings, this country's destroyed, this country's very own son, the AK PARTY, and that leader's name is Recep Tayyip Erdogan! Now, Mr. Purchu, that confidence is priceless!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0059par0240	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0053par0241	This confidence is priceless!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0059par0242	Mr. Wait, finish your words to greet you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0060par0243	That's the third time you've given it to me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0061par0244	He's gonna eat the helicopter! Will it eat natural gas, Romanes? You didn't talk about novels!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0062par0245	Friends, you're saying the progress report is the CHP municipalities that put Turkey on the progress report, and you're not answering it. You say, "Resource," and you say, "What resources did you save?"
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0063par0246	Mr. Wait, I've opened it for a salute.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0062par0247	What does the mindset that does not bring Ozcan Purçu (Purcu) into the municipality do to Roma?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0063par0249	Mr. Wait, I beg you, but look...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0064par0250	Mr. President, this is the third time you've promised.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0065par0251	What's in the budget for our Roma brothers? What is given to our Roma brothers in this budget?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0066par0252	I salute you and our High Council. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have done what the Romans have done, and we will do it by the permission of my Lord.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0067par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0068par0257	Mr. President, the secretary must have teased me by giving me my name.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0069par0258	He's a tease, that's right.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0068par0259	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0069par0260	But I'm not going to make any promises now, in a little while; excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0070par0261	No, I beg you, I understand, too, Mr. President, all of us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0071par0262	Mr. President, of course!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0072par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0073par0264	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0072par0265	But you can't just...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0074par0266	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0075par0267	Mr. President, please, he used my name, Mr. President, I have the right.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0074par0268	I'll give you my word in a moment, Mr. Purçu, take your seat.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0076par0269	Mayor, the clerk has a name, for Christ's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0074par0270	Guys, excuse me, I promise. I promise not to tease Mr. Purchu, allow me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0076par0272	He's giving his name.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0074par0273	Yes, the talks on Article 6 have been completed. There's no question-answering process. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. Mr. Purçu, I would like to invite you to the stand without taunting. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0279	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, they've come up here, they're talking about natural gas, they're talking about ATAK helicopters; the Roma are hungry in their places, they don't see it. What's a Roman MP doing here with an ATAK helicopter?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0078par0280	This country is ours! This country is ours!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0281	We need work, we need training, we need shelter.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0079par0283	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0284	Rich, what does he know about hunger? You've taken your stuff; come on in, let me see you in the neighborhood. The poor will not vote for you, neither will you enter the Roman neighborhoods, nor will you ask for votes; for you have no face; for you have no face.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0080par0285	What you're saying is a lie!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0286	We won't be able to fix the destruction you gave the Roma for 200 years, this country won't.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0081par0287	What damage?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0288	You've buried us in poverty, you've finished us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0081par0289	Tell me what damage we've done.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0290	Look, $35 billion -- you told me yesterday -- you spent it on the Syrians, you didn't spend a penny on Roman neighborhoods. You didn't spend 20m euros from the European Commission, you've even lost the rights of the Roma.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0082par0291	Don't discriminate.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0292	Where's 20 million euros? Where's 20m euros from the European Commission? Look at the Progress Report. The European Commission warned you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0083par0293	You're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0294	You didn't do anything in the Roman Strategy Action Plan, you even used the money that came to the Roma. Where's the money, where's the money? Where's the money? Where are the Roma's rights? Let's hear it. Where?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0083par0295	Mr. President, that's not how it works. The preacher is lying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0077par0296	The Roma will give you your rights, you won't get one vote in the chest, you won't get one. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0083par0299	Mr. President, there's teasing, I want to talk to you about teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0084par0300	What did he say?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0083par0301	He mentioned my name and said, "What did you do?"
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0084par0302	Come on in. Come on in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0085par0304	He didn't give a name, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0086par0305	He didn't.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0084par0306	He said "Cemal Wait."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0087par0307	I didn't name names, Mr. President, I didn't pick on them.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0088par0308	Bring in the transcripts, the name didn't come up, Mr. President. He used general statements.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0087par0309	No, I didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0089par0310	He said "Cemal" (Cemal).
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0090par0311	Mr. President, as long as there's no name-calling amongst the groups, we'll go all the way, last...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0091par0312	Sure, we're waiting, he's got nothing, but Cemal gave us the name of Mr. Wait.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0090par0313	He didn't give a name, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0092par0314	He did, he did.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0093par0315	He did, he did.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0094par0316	You can't get in the neighborhood. He said.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0095par0317	He didn't. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0318	Okay, I'll ask for the transcripts. Mr. Wait, I'll take your place, I'll review the transcripts, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0095par0320	Congressman, have a seat.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0321	I'll look into the records, and I'll make a promise. I want the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0097par0322	What does he know about rich people?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0323	Yes, he did, he said, dear, I'm not saying he didn't say them, he said them, let him.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0098par0324	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0325	I thought he named you "Cemal Wait," but they say he didn't, so I'll check the records.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0099par0326	It's not pronounced because it wasn't told to. Bring in the reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0327	Guys, here, look...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0100par0328	Let's look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0329	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Ozkoch... He thinks I said his name, I remember, but by the way, he turned around directly and said he couldn't go straight back to Mr. Wait and even enter the neighborhood, and he said that he was rich, so those are the harsh insults, if you mean it's the right thing to do? You don't take this as an insult.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0101par0331	Mr. President, a moment ago, the speaker returned to our congressman and addressed him personally, which is clear.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0102par0332	Yeah, every year on the budget, two Roma friends get in a fight. This is wrong! It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0333	Mr. Ozkoch, go ahead and tell me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0101par0334	Rather than mention his name, he accused himself of being direct, plain and simple.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0096par0335	Mr. Akbasoglu, let me listen to you, and now I'll listen to Mr. Özkoç.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0103par0336	Sir, now, both the opposition and the power are coming out here, the orator, and they're looking at our groups, and we're saying a lot by looking at the other group.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0104par0337	Mr. Purcu pointed directly at me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0103par0338	If we accept all this bullying, we can't end it. We made a deal. But by name, by name...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0105par0339	But he turned around and said, "What does he know about rich people?"
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0106par0340	We have a deal, so I'm telling you, I'm gonna look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0103par0341	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. If there's a name called Engin Özkoch, or any name-calling of the Justice and Development Party, then it's his right to leave. That's the way it is, sir. Look at the records.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0107par0343	The Roman said, "There is no other Roman deputy, there is one."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0103par0344	No, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0108par0345	Guys, would you excuse me? Look, there's a consensus among groups of group presidents.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0109par0347	But there's a Roman deputy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0110par0348	He gave us the name of our friend, and we don't act on ethnicity here.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0108par0349	We're taking work from the General Assembly within the framework of this agreement, but if you want, let's give up the agreement, and it doesn't matter to me. Mr. Wait, I'll take your place, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0111par0351	I'd like you to consider this thing based on the reports.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0108par0352	Please don't tell me what to do. Let me do my job. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD Party rows]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] I'm reading the 7th article: MADDE 7- (1) is the 99-401-02-05 budget for the chairmanship of the Board of Higher Education. Under Article 10 of Higher Education Law, dated 4/11/1981 and under Article 10 of Higher Education Law No. 2547, the grant is paid by considering the number of students assigned and the study areas. The sums collected for this purpose are made available by the relevant institute of higher education and service to be used in the purchases of goods and services on the one hand, on the other hand, to the table marked by the institute of higher education (B), and on the other hand, to the table marked (A). (2) was the first part of Article 43 (d) of Law 2547, 44th, 46th, 58th, additional 25th, additional 26th and additional 27th, and the sums collected under Article 19/11/1992 and 3843, and other revenues are recorded as self-inflicted income in the budgets of higher education institutions. In return for these recorded sums, the funds put into the budget of the relevant institute of higher education are used on the basis of revenues. A) The amount paid by relevant states or international organisations in exchange for expenses to foreign national students and staff who have been educated and studied at the National Security Directorate's institutes, B) As part of an agreement made by NATO authorities to pay for maintenance and repairs of auxiliary airports, C) The amount for the Ministry of Trade services by 2 per cent of the bandrol fees that were collected by Customs Administrations to be transferred to Turkey's Radio-Television Agency, will be paid by the institution The tower, which belongs to the General Command of the Gendarme, or is part of any allocations assigned to the General Command, is authorized to save a special grant to the general budget, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the part of which units have been collected in exchange for opening the use of institutions and enterprises outside the central management scope for communication purposes, and on the other hand, for the same purpose. The first word for the groups on the matter is for Mr. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu on behalf of the PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0112par0371	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my opinion on the 7th article of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal on behalf of our party group. I salute our great nation and all of you worthy Regents. My dear friends, this budget has been reduced by more than 50 per cent as more General Assembly talks continue, as the dollar has increased from 9.20 TL to 14.65 TL in a month and a half from the 26th of October, when we started meeting at the Plan and Budget Commission. This budget has become a budget of poverty, poverty, and corruption. This budget is a budget that drives the nation to despair, aimed at restoring the five-alarm gang. Clearly, this budget cannot be a cure for workers, pensioners, tradesmen, officers, EYT people, 3,600 additional indicators. The Plan and Budget Commission have actively contributed as the PTA Party Group to the talks, and we have laid out 19 motions, one by one, in order of what needs to be done for our nation. If you had agreed to an additional budget of $8 billion,500 million in Turkish dollars for the budget of our country's Ministry of Youth and Sports, each one of which specialises in individual, specialising in the issues, working with the competent economies of our party, carefully working on their accounts, meticulously, each of which would have received 1,000 Turkish liras a month instead of 650 Turkish lira a month. What did you do? You refused. If our proposal to add $6 billion 250 million to the National Ministry of Education grants were accepted, 50,000 additional teachers could be appointed, and you refused. If you'd agreed to our proposal to add 50 million Turkish liras to the budgets of the Ministry of Industry and Technology for RDs, and 3 billion for other incentives, we would have been able to compensate for our country's lack in advanced technology production, which you have denied. If our proposal to increase COSGEB budget funds to 10 billion Turkish liras had been accepted, some of the increase in the costs of electricity and natural gas would have been subsidized; you refused. If our motion to add $7 billion 250 million to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security budget were accepted, 3600 additional indicators would be given to the groups specified; this was rejected. Again, if our proposal to increase the ministry's budget by 30 billion Turkish liras had been accepted, the minimum wage would have been at least 4,000 Turkish liras, and the social security premiums would have been subsidised by 500 Turkish lira per person; rejection has been made. If our motion to raise budget funds for 45 billion Turkish dollars by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security was accepted, the IIT problem would be resolved, but you also rejected it. If you had agreed to our proposal to raise $28 billion,200m in Turkish dollars in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry budget, agricultural support would have increased, more support would have been available to our farmer, and you refused. If our motion to increase the budget of the Forest Directorate for 800 million Turkish liras had been approved, there would have been 10 new fire extinguishers to resolve the problems of interfering with forest fires, which you refused. Our motion to add 10 billion Turkish liras to the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services would cover the cost of diapers and food for 2,600,000 babies in our country, but this was rejected. If our motion to raise the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services for 20 billion Turkish liras had been approved, the monthly payment to disabled citizens would have been raised to 1,500 Turkish liras, which was rejected. If our motion to increase the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services for 10 billion Turkish liras were accepted, it would be possible to strengthen women and reduce women's poverty; unfortunately, you also rejected it. If you had agreed to our motion to add $5 billion to the budget of the Ministry of Family and Family Services 500 million to the budget, support for the martyrs and near veterans would have been raised to a reasonable level, but you also refused. If our motion to increase the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services for $5 billion had been accepted, the heating costs of 2 million families living under the poverty line would have been covered during the winter months, and you refused. If our motion to add 350 million Turkish liras to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget had been accepted, our martyrs, close and veterans would have been allowed to host through TOKI, but unfortunately this was also rejected. If the Trade Ministry budget had been agreed to increase 25 billion Turkish liras, problems with the pandemic of our trade and artists would have been solved, rejected. If 5 billion Turkish liras had been added to the Health Ministry budget, it would have been possible to get 50,000 additional appointments to meet the health workers' needs, which you refused. The net impact of our proposals on budget funds was 199 billion 521 million Turkish liras. If you'd accepted our proposals, it would have been a solution to the expectations of all the communities. This budget clearly shows who your priority is with your reactionary mentality -- five contractors, 42.5 billion in the budget, and the interest lobby that you're spending 240 billion on. I repeat: this is the budget of poverty, poverty and corruption, friends. Mr. President, with the testimony of Mr. Coral Akşener, our President, Turkey is not having an economic crisis for the first time, but for the first time, there is a power facing the public face-to-face that denies the crisis. For the first time, this power blamed the farmer and the tradesman for inflation. The reason for the cost of this life is because of our stockbroker farmers and opportunists. You said, "Our farmer and tradesmen have joined hands and waged war on our economy with external forces." Shame on you. That's not enough to camouflage the wrong policies of the AK PARTY government. Friends, outside forces, external forces...... there are always external powers for countries. The important thing is that those who run the country are aware of it and have the ability to produce politics. See, when he blames America for the economic picture, he says to the president of the United States, my dear friend. You see, July 15th, those who were considered to be the sponsors of the treacherous coup attempt, were saved today and went to their feet. Our people are amazed at you, and they're amazed at the fact that you're all wrapped up in whatever you call it. Friends, the story of external forces attacking the Turkish economy is no longer in our nation's favor. Our nation is calculating how to get out of a fire that surrounds it. A friend of ours who worked on transportation in my constituency, Adana Kozan district, called me and made a deal with the firms at £6.30 today, $10.30, and we're trying to make a profit, let alone keep our commitments. We can't bring bread to our house. We give the mazota what we win. They call it the mazota. It's the power that won't listen to the victims and find solutions. We'll keep talking until we're in power. With all the bad situations you've put our nation through, we'll get it out with our knowledgeed, well-equipped, well-adjusted staff. We're ready as the Good Party, we're determined to lift all obstacles in front of our nation one by one, and I repeat, we're ready. With the restored and reinforced parliamentary system, we will take our country out of these depressed days and allow our citizens to live as human beings in a habitable country. That's why we're calling it a choice right now. When we are in power, Mr. President Coral Akşener puts it this way: we will not waste a drop of every effort given for our country and our nation, and we will not waste it. In the power of the good people, Turkey will be equal, equal, equal. He says, "I salute the great Turkish nation and you, and I wish the budget to be good."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0113par0385	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Berdan Özturk. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0114par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the esteemed MPs and all the people who follow us. Turkey is going through one of the most difficult times in its history. This is a time when the people are getting poorer, the tradesmen shut down every day, and power can't rule the country. This is a time when the country has multiple crises but can't get over them. Behind the multiple crises is the Kurdish issue that has not been solved for a hundred years. Not seeing this truth is an extension of the narrow horizon in the Kurdish issue itself. Clearly, the Kurdish issue has become a devastating issue for the whole community. Under the economic crisis that turned into a heavy bill today, the poverty of thousands of people, the closing of hundreds of thousands of tradesmen, the Kurdish issue under the coup. Don't let anyone draw the matter here and there. At this stage, political problems such as Ireland, Basque, Catalan and Palestine cannot be resolved in democratic ways in time, as the Kurdish issue has been causing major damage for many years, as both sides have caused heavy destruction. The Kurds can't do this with war. The more you said, you deepened the war. The balance sheet is clear: there's a state coming into crisis from every cast, a state fighting Kurds at all borders, a state talking to everyone but the Kurds, a state agreeing with everyone through Kurdish hostility, a state that everyone uses to get what they want from Kurds. Dear friends, traditional state rhetoric is separatism that has been used for years not to resolve the Kurdish issue. It is important to point out that accusing Kurds of separatism is a great manipulation, a great lie. The mind that seeks division in the Kurdish people's democratic struggle is the mind that deepens the war and seeks Kurdish-Turkish conflict. If you're looking for separatism, you should look for it in this mentality, not in our quest for democratic and human rights. Yes, there have always been people who didn't want common life and who wanted people to have throats. We saw how the racist factions were unleashed on the Kurdish people. We know which scenario was in the background of the recent massacre in Konya. We know very well what chaos is expected of the mindset that raided the HDP province building in the middle of the day and slaughtered Deniz Poyraz. The Kurds repeatedly say they do not favour separation, but they can't live with the existing system, wanting to be recognized and get their rights, wanting to speak their language freely and teach their children. The Kurdish people no longer want to live under the roof of a democratic republic as equal and free citizens, guaranteed by universal laws, not meat and nails. Powers change, but the way of reason is one, and the way of madness is one. The mind leads us to democratic society, the irrationality leads us to fascism and collapse. Until now, the Kurdish people have not become slaves of Alexander, nor of Caesar, nor of Saddam, nor of Assad, nor of the Universe, nor will they be slaves of anyone. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Respected friends, we don't think there's a problem between the Kurdish people and the Turkish people. The problem is a political problem; the problem is the problem of politics collecting rants from problems; the problem is the problem of distortion and truth removal; the problem is the problem of intimacy and sacrifice. If our people were to address the problem with the mind of the politics that produce hatred and hatred, we would have had a great civil war by now, but our peoples would rather live together in common common sense and in humanity. We take peace, common sense, and the mind of politics from this historical common mind of our peoples. We don't do politics in tight rooms with political engineering plans. Historically, we're a people who ruin all the games. Like representatives of power, we don't do politics of chaos, hatred and anger from the council to the whole country. We don't sacrifice the people's will to our own personal ambitions, we don't use our powers to cover up crimes. We're simply trying to reflect the public's voice here. We've always been against the war. Our effort to starve us all, to make us poor, to leave us lawless, unjust is ignored. So, we're asking, is it really worth it? What did you get? So turn away from your arrogance for a moment, and look back at your past, and compare where you stand, and see for once where you are, and what swamp you have driven the country into. Turkey has become a disgraced state in international relations because of its insistence on the Kurdish war. The reason why the Kurdish issue is a regional problem by making regional hostility to Kurds is nothing more than the pragmatist policies of power. The problem between Kurds and Turks can be solved today is Russia on one side, the United States on the other, the Arabs on the other, the Fars on the other. The political responsibility of all of this is in the government, where the public struggles with major crises, where they try to prolong their lives by threatening, threatening opponents every day, by putting away their democratic rights so that they don't use their violence and security policies. Look, Mr. Ocalan said he'd solve the Kurdish problem in a week. But what's being done? They insist on war. It is responsible for all the massacres today, all the crises, the poverty of the people, the abandonment of thousands of qualified people, the suspension of the Constitution and the law, the turning of Parliament into a notary, despair, pessimism, the personalized power, the scientific and legal policy that the entire community is trying to sell to the people, the scientific, democratic, and the lawless family and the family who are unaware of it. As we expose the policies of power that enrich relatives through the war industry, regardless of our position -- whether it's the deputy or the mayor or the ordinary Kurdish citizen -- the master's law has been passed on to us, we've been declared enemies; all of the state's judicial and violent devices are declared hostile to us by the hand of power, but we are not here to make enemies to the Parliament, and we do not allow anyone to be hostile to us. Those who carry the people's budgets to their relatives, to their families, can't cover their crimes by waving their fingers at us by showing hostility here. Things won't be the same anymore. Trying to turn politics into a game between friends and enemies today, the government has left us two ways: democracy or fascism. If there is a Kurdish peace, it must be an honorable peace. There must be a peace that says, "Fight first, speak first, and then be lawful." While Kurdish peace is the most rational way for both the Kurdish people and the Turkish people, unfortunately, it has been sacrificed to political interests. The Kurdish issue, which has long been used as the military's guardianship tool on politics, has now become an issue of political power's war, trying to collect votes with its peace, mediating it and exploiting it. This Parliament must now listen to the cries of our people's common life, and the Kurd must be able to face those who benefit from the Turkish conflict. This is a place for us to speak to the public, not to show off the way the representatives of power do. Parliament is a place for us to resolve social problems, not a place for polemics. Therefore, this Parliament should no longer take out the declarations of war, but the agreements of peace. The House must serve peace, democracy and justice. I'm saying that Congress should now serve growth, serve a more modern ideal by establishing a democratic system based on universal law.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0115par0397	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0114par0398	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0115par0400	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Gülizar Bicer Karaca. Mr. Karaca, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0116par0403	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I was going to talk to you today about the citizen's budget and how the citizen's budget rights are being sanctioned in the one-man government system. When I texted you about this conversation this morning, our citizens' problems, their demands were so painful that I found it more appropriate to share them. Dear MPs, the farmer Hasan Yurdakul from Denizli Bozkurt district called in the morning. Mr. Deputy, I bought the fertilizer for 95 lira last year. ▪ Is there a pen in this budget that can solve the farmer's problem? I looked and looked; no. There's no funding in the budget to solve this problem for farmers like our uncle Hasan from Bozkurt district of Denizli. Again, Mr. Mehmet from Kale County called, he said he was a farmer, and he sold his tractor because of his debt to Agriculture Loan Co-operative and Agriculture Bank; he was trying to sell his field; they said last week when he went to the bank that the balance was $5,600, they said 9.800 when he went to the bank today to pay the $5,600, he said: "Mr. Congressman, is there a budget for the farmers' interest debt to be wiped out?" No, it's not. Again, Ayten called the mother of six children from Erzurum. Believe me, I'm hurt, my heart aches. Two of his six children have finished college, but are unemployed. Mrs. Ayten says: "My children grew up not knowing the taste of fruit and vegetables, and I am ashamed to say this to Mrs. Ayten, like Mrs. Ayten, to the loyal, humble women of Anatolia: Ayten, dear women; you are not to be ashamed; rather, you are not to be ashamed, you are to sit in a palace for every season, and then I have to write the book of Equomin, after which you should be ashamed. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I got a call from Esmeralda, who graduated from health school. His sentences are like this: I didn't have a plan "B" when I entered medical school. My only goal was to work like a madman for months to become the first in the exam, and I got 95 points in my major, and I became the 1st. I still haven't been assigned. I see it on TV, and the more I hear about the interview, the more it hurts. I can't think about not being appointed, I don't want to think about it, because if I think about it, I feel like I'm going crazy. Again, another young man, Özge: As my friends and I graduated from college, we are all unemployed, desperate; we view going abroad as the gateway to salvation. It's not an easy decision, our family is here, but we have no choice. The only way to obtain our economic freedom is abroad. I said to Özge. I said, "I am sorry, sir, unemployment may exist. There's no such thing as having a job finishing every university. It's the mindset that makes this budget. The person who made this budget with this mentality has nothing to do with your unemployment, your restricted freedoms, your faith in justice, and your search for hope abroad. Because they think you're going abroad on a tourist trip. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Again, in November, the mother of an Eskişehir baby with SMA patient Muzaffer committed suicide in fear that she could not afford to treat her child. The family of Esma (an Esma) in Diyarbakır says we can't get a defamation device. Because it was 30,000 liras last year, 60 thousand liras this year with an increase in dollars. He says: 'Is there a cough device in this budget? I'm afraid there isn't. For people who have cystic fibrosis, they need to have a drug from abroad, but with a court order. They've issued a regulation last week, and it doesn't come with a court order. That's the President of the Association, called KÜFDER. There's no funding for those patients. In this budget, the Muzaffer baby has no medicine, no cough devices, no medication for the treatments of cystic fibrosis patients, so there's no right to live in this budget. Speaking of health here, our health workers are in action today. You said to those health workers, "Your rights are not to be paid." I swear to God, you said something very right, because they're in action today because you didn't pay for their rights, and I'm giving our regards to all the health workers at the hospital who have been fighting for the right of citizens for days, even though they miss the smell of the pandemide child from here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, what's in this budget? The Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge has $147,825 grand a year plus VAT. What else isn't in this budget? Your share in this budget is only $414 for social support for 7 million poor people. When I was preparing this budget speech yesterday, I was going to associate it with this transition fee: $4.968 a year you'd call a 7 million charity-needer, which you call a social support-needer, is $4.968 a year, only $4.968, but you would pay 548 for one vehicle on the Osmangazi Bridge when you prepared this speech. When the dollar sailed to 15 liras less than 24 hours later, it was $552 to pay the contractor gang one vehicle at the Osmangazi Bridge; $4.968 a year, $414 a month, but not 24 hours later, guarantee payments to the contractor contractor contractor contractors who profited. Dear friends, in this budget, the amount of interest that the baby in the arson today will pay is close to $3,000, but that baby's parents can't feed their baby because of economic hardship, economic depression, and deep poverty. By order of our president, that fund of our municipalities, the black winter fund, they go and ask for food for their babies. Now, that's what you've done to people. You preach zero tolerance for violence against women; she needs strength to prevent violence against women. In this budget, there's only $6.5 left when you take out the personnel costs per woman to strengthen the woman; it's only $6.5. Another issue is that in this budget, 92 lira 47 cents is reduced when you divide the share for the fallen relatives, for the veterans, into the number of martyrs and veterans. You see only 92 lira 47 cents a day for the martyrs and the veterans as the contractors enrich themselves with exchange-based payments on the circuit model. Then you won't come to this stand and lecture on nationalism. The Justice and Development Party speakers who have been on the stand for days have talked about the nation's budget. This is what I'm talking about: is this budget a public budget? Of course, it's not the budget of the nation, it's the budget of the one-man government, which, in the history of the republic, is an unprecedentedly public-owned scheme that transfers public resources to supporters by the power. There are no students' dorms in this budget. We had some young people who had to drop out of school this year because they couldn't solve the housing and housing issue, and we thought maybe you could fund their home, and you didn't. When the students went out to the streets saying, "We'd like to take shelter." Do you know where you found shelter? You saw fit for police stations and surveillance cells in police stations; they wanted to live in dorms, not in police stations, friends. Then the citizens screamed, "We are hungry." And you afflicted them with microphones reaching out to silence them, and independent journalists reaching out to them at dawn; and you turned them into house arrests, and tried to prevent the voice of a citizen from being heard. So, what did you do after that? The precious orator said, "The right-based budget." Last year, from this platform, prepare a budget based on human rights. We said, "You didn't do it; what if you did it?"
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0117par0423	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0116par0424	Today, the tax on the minimum wage would have been lifted, at least in the street I have to send my child to school hungry. Perhaps the mother's child would not go to bed hungry or go to school hungry. Mr. President has repeatedly warned you, advised you not to listen; you drank the $128 billion reserve; today, you have put the citizen out of his misery. No matter what you do, citizen, your incompetence, your resources are aware of your back-to-back pursuit, not of the citizens. 71 per cent of our citizens say I've become poor, 74 per cent say Turkey is getting worse. And do you know what 68 per cent of our citizens call it? This happened because Turkey came out of the way and direction of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The problem is obvious; it's the one-man court government and it's its unqualified staff.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0117par0427	Mr. Karaca, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0116par0428	The solution is clear; I say that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the authority of the people who lead the way and direction, who give hope to women and young people, and who will not rule poverty, but will end poverty, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0117par0430	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan. Mr. Stoneborn, you have a speech on behalf of your own, and I put it together, and your total time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0118par0434	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group on Article 7 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, Mr. President, to the great Turkish nation following us at the beginning of the screen. Enhancing the quality security system in higher education to contribute to the continued development of higher education institutions in Turkey and to universal competence of individuals. We closely monitor and support the institutional improvements of the Higher Education Quality Council established by its mission. In 2021, universities are granted an institutional activation certificate under the institutional Accreditation Programme, where nearly 60 institutions from 209 universities have been applied for the first time by the Higher Education Quality Board in 2020, and 12 universities have been accredited. These documents are given at high cost by international institutions as a result of audits. However, not all departments of universities are certified by these international organisations. In view of this situation, it is important that our institutions be supported by increasing the number of domestic and national organisations in order to reduce high costs and to increase the rate of acretion by recognition of all departments. The incentive of local accordion organisations and the implementation of department-based activation process for all departments of universities will also increase the efficiency of quality policy, rather than the general audit. Dear MPs, I'd like to address some issues related to my constituency and to my hometown of Gaziantep. The Covid-19 epidemic sustained a stable growth in Gaziantep exports at a time when the global economy was narrowed down due to the negative effects of its disease. A total of $9 billion 128m in exports has increased by 29.6 per cent in the first 11 months of this month from Gaziantep, which is Turkey's export burden, head of the locomotive cities. Gaziantep, which is the 5th most exported city in our country, will have entered the year 2022, with the number of exports announced in December, catching the export target he had long wanted for 10 billion dollars. The contribution of industrial production to this painting, which has also contributed positively to the growth figures in Turkey, is extremely great. According to recent data, an increase of 8.9 per cent year-on-year in the Industrial Production Index is one of the key indicators of this growth. Gaziantep is always seen as a city that performs a performance on the production, employment and export power of our country. The progress and stability line of Gaziantep, which continues to walk in a steady pace to achieve its goal of growth and development, will come to much better points with some of the problems that have been effectively resolved. One of them is the delays in VAT returns. Although exporters have delivered VAT extradition applications on time and fully related tax agencies, the VAT extradition reports on the system are opened with an estimated ten-day delay. Even if there are no flaws in the control report, it takes a long time to conclude operations. Given this situation, providing additional personnel support for our tax offices in Gaziantep, Turkey's fifth most exported province, will be a major solution to the problem. In addition, our industrialists, who have some demands on the financial balance sheet, expect that the financial balance sheet and the financial balance sheet, issued according to tax laws to calculate the institution's tax matrix, and the differences between the balance sheets, which have been made according to Turkey's Accounting Standards, will only be resolved by Turkey's Accounting Standards, to ensure that the companies will issue a balance sheet according to the Turkish Accounting Standards, which allows financial profits from the same records to be calculated. Mr. President, the precious MPs, the Hassa-Fourways Tunnel Project, which many of our cities have been waiting for, not only our Gaziantep exporters. We are closely monitoring the work of the Hassa-Fourways Tunnel Project, which will shorten its distance to the port of Alexanderun, the largest organised industrial area of our country, and many of our cities. The Hassa-Fourway Tunnel Project, which has been completed by our Transport Ministry, is important for the trade and industry of many of our provinces, including Gaziantep, Hatay, Kahramanmarash, Şanlıurfa, Adıyaman, Diyarbakır, Malatya and Mardin, in our eastern and Southeast Anatolia regions. The immediate need for regional development is crucial to boosting the tender for construction in the tunnel project and the opening of the tunnel immediately. Members of lawmakers are leading the most important agricultural products of Gaziantep and the region, due to the high social, economic and cultural interaction of the Felipe nuts. Despite its historical experience, the potential of production and market advantages, there are various problems with the failure to register the product, and this powerful potential, unfortunately, is not fully reflected in the field. In order to ensure sustainable production and to gain the commercial potential that the product deserves in the world markets, it is important to include in the agricultural support programme of the Felipe nut and to keep the product in a licensed storage facility by the Earth's Harvest Office. The overall demand for agricultural products to be given to the pistachio is that the product should be given income-based income support per kilogram or nut, such as $170 per grain. In addition, the same application is made during the harvest season for the Antwerp nut manufacturers, who regularly buy nuts and store them in their nut licensed warehouses, is as local as the Nuts' Office's most nut and addable product. With the support of the Silk Road Development Agency, the Gaziantep Trade Stock Exchange opened Turkey's first Antalya peanut licensed warehouse at Gaziantep in 2021. It offers various state supports to our manufacturers, with a licensed warehouse capable of about 10,000 tons of physical storage, which operates under the security and supervision of our government. It is needed as a means of promoting the network of peanut licensed storage in Gaziantep, the main home of the Antwerp nut, to ensure stability in the pistachio markets, to ensure that producers' marketing problems are removed and their storage and financing needs are needed to ensure that the Office of Land Mahlusullers delivers products to the Pisces. Antep nuts, especially during the harvest of supply stacks, will also contribute to the registration of the product at proportional rates, such as the fact that the Land Mahluses Office, from our manufacturers, is able to store these products in a licensed warehouse, which will ensure price stability for the product. In accordance with all these facts, we will support all projects that will be carried out by our Ministry of Agriculture and the Forest, in order to ensure that our cultural, agricultural and industrial product, Antaep nuts, each year be acquired by a certain amount of Earth's crops, preserved in the licensed storage area of Antwerp nuts. Dear lawmakers, a 100-year anniversary of Gaziantep's deliverance from enemy occupation has been signed by our Gaziantep Governor to strengthen the education infrastructure of 100 philanthropic 100 schools in his 100th year, while the protocol of a total 132 facilities has been signed. The charitable contribution of projects, which cost about 1.5 billion liras, has been 978 million liras. On behalf of my fellow citizens, my party, and my own, the mayor of Gaziantep, the mayor of Gaziantep Metropolitan City, and those who have done all the work. Gaziantep, the locomotive city of the Southeastern Anatolian region, mentioned its name in the field of culture and gastronomy and became the center of attraction, including UNESCO's Creative Cities Network. The world is no longer just sea, sand, and sun tourism. We have become increasingly ambitious in tourism by adorning the historical structures and cultural values of Gaziantep. Gaziantep, who has succeeded in becoming the capital of gastronomy from a time when bread was made out of a poor seed in the struggle for salvation, has an overnight destination of about 1.5 million tourists in 2022. During the time of the pandemic, the rich kitchen hosting some 600,000 tourists, its unique culture, its historic wealth, the veteran of our city, and the 100th year celebration of the French occupation, which will be held on December 25th, Turkey invites all Turkey, and it is now time to go to Gaziantep. Precious lawmakers, I'd like to tell you about the 80 City Martyr Land and Flag Project, which was launched by our State National Education Directorate in Gaziantep Governor's Co-ordinatorship to mark the 100th year of Gaziantep's liberation from enemy occupation and a meaningful project. There is a land where every human being is born, grew up, and then breathed his last breath, and then fell into eternal sleep. People live in a land called "vatan" and their joys and sorrows, and they earn their bread in this land. People get their identity and their sense of belonging to a nation in a land called the motherland. That's why on one side of their hearts, people always carry the love of their homeland, and this feeling from the ancestors continues to burn like a fire that never dies. The country is not an ordinary piece of land, as it points out in the verse of Mehmet Akif Ersoyun. The land is a sacred land where the martyrs and all the ancestors under the ground are in eternal sleep. Gaziantep, the history of wars, migrations, suffering, heroism, glory and honor, is a second Canakkale. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk praised all the cities, giving Gaziantep a special place. It's no coincidence that the Supreme Assembly has given us the title of Veterans, an example of our heroism. We are a people who consider the martyrship neighbor to the prophet. For us, the land is the mother, the child, and the land, so if anyone dies for it, it's the country. In honor of the 100th year of our glorious struggle for salvation on December 25th, our Governorate of Gaziantep, under the work of our National Education Directorate, our young and teachers began to take a handful of the land of our 6,317 martyrs and the glorious Turkish flag to our 80 cities. Because of this meaningful project, I would like to thank our Governor of Gaziantep, our National Education Directorate, our young people, our teachers, and those who have done all the work. Just like now, a hundred years from now, we'll have the same posture with our young ones, and even if time changes, our position will never change, our mission will always be the same. Members of lawmakers, with the recent adoption of 40,000 health staff, which has been announced by our Minister of Health, the need for health staff in many of our provinces, particularly my constituency, Gaziantep. In addition to our health workers, it is also important to meet the need for physicians in many provinces, especially in my hometown, Gaziantep. There have been many openings for the deaths of the existing numeral inadequacies, the death of physicians related to Covid, the immigration of foreign physicians, early retirement, the public escape, the transfer of major physicians to workplace medicine and the abandonment of the practice of medicine. Recent problems, as well as past health workers' shortcomings, lead to an increase in negativity. For these reasons, it is vital that necessary work be done in order to meet the needs of physicians, especially the major branches of Gaziantep and many of our provinces. Also, I'd like to thank our health minister Fahrettin Husband and his team, who quickly forwarded their written responses to the issues we discussed in the budget talks. I wish all accepted budgets would be a blessing to the great Turkish nation, and I wish you all a good day. I salute our Veteran Assembly, the name of our Gaziantep.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0119par0450	Second word for the individuals, Mr. Sermin Balık. Mr. Fish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0120par0453	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on my own behalf on Article 7 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law's Proposal, and I salute you, members of our Veteran Assembly, and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] First of all, in our 19 years of power, I give thanks and thanks to our beloved nation, who has given us the authority to do the budget of our country 20 times in a row. I would like to point out that this budget is the budget of the oppressed and the innocent, the budget of all our citizens from seven to seventy, this budget is the budget of our citizens affected by disasters and disasters, a local, national budget, which is the budget of Turkey, which is growing day-to-day with 84 million citizens. Mr. President, my thanks to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who, after the natural disasters and disasters of our power, wiped out our nation's cries and made it forget, made the warm and merciful hand of the state feel for our nation from the very first moment of disasters. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Today is the tenth day of our budget talks. In the past few days, when our ministers explained the budgets of their ministry, there is no doubt one of the most mentioned cities, one of the cities that received the most investments, one of the cities that received the most help, was my beloved city, Elaziğ. The work that was done after the January 24th earthquake, the same and cash benefits, the construction of the village houses, the mosques, schools, park gardens and dorms, and the reconstruction of my city's development, construction, and utilisation process. It only shortens the road for five minutes. We talked about the Charcohan Bridge and tunnel, which is the world's 2nd largest bridge in technology and engineering, which is the song burned and engineering, which is the largest bridge in the world, linking Elazıg Province and our neighbouring province, Malatya. Despite your fierce opposition, we have explained how necessary and important our city hospitals -- one of which is in my beloved city -- are the saviors, the necessary and the important -- are in the pandemic process. There's been talk of the construction process of our domestic and national vaccine. In addition, many projects have been mentioned to our city and to our country. I would like to thank our ministers for their sensitivity and solution-oriented work every time we have a problem with our citizens after the January 24th earthquake. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you serve our nation, if you're with them at every moment to heal their wounds, to heal their troubles, to heal their troubles, to make them better, be sure that this saintly nation will be there for you. Instead of underestimating a professional group in each speech, you should have threatened bureaucracy and investors and complained about our country to foreign forces and listened to the voice of our nation instead of writing to ambassadors. (AK PARTI) If you were to put your backs into the terror organizations, not on the saints and Necipian nations, instead of the PKK anthems, the national anthem, the resurrection and salvation march in your congresses, instead of following 84 million of our nation's holy platforms.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0121par0461	Don't feel like you have to deal with everyone! Don't feel like you have to tease everyone!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0120par0462	If only you had taken care of the sister of our martyr, not of those who blasphemed against the family of martyrs. If you were to prioritize our nation's wishes instead of your alliances, which you tried to hide from your constituent, which you denied at every turn, you would have seen and heard what was coming again and again.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0122par0465	They're not clapping.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0123par0466	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0120par0467	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our budget of 2022, our beloved nation, our country, my beloved city, my fellow citizens, to be blessed, I salute our great House.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0124par0469	That's no way to talk about it! I feel like I have to pick on everyone...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0123par0470	Members of parliament, the demands for the 7th amendment have been met. No question process, no answer process. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 8- (1) Added to Law 5018 (I) and (II) public administrations; A) Payments to people who will be bought or employed for a period of no more than a month in the year, provided they are limited to their beelike work, B) Payment to those who have been bought part-time service under the legislation concerned, C) Payments to students who continue vocational training in business with candidate apprentices and apprentices under vocational education code No. 3308 dated 5/6/1986 and continue training or complementary education, ) Payments to those who have been appointed for tuition in accordance with their relevant legislation and who have no official duties, The budgets (01.04) can not exceed the funds in the economic code, and cannot be invested in these economic codes, except from other schemes of budgets (except the transfers between them and the transactions made under the fifth joke of Article 6 of this economic code) cannot be transferred and cannot be paid off. However, it is the President's authority to transfer the sums necessary for payment (c) and (c) belles from the arrangements that include this economic code to the relevant arrangements. (2) The transports on this Law (T) table can only be obtained by the President's decision on the proposal of the ministry on the condition that it should be subject to very urgent and mandatory conditions. (3) The public administration (I) and (II) of Laws No. 5018 (I) and the permanent workers (01.03), the permanent workers (01.03) and the financial codes of their budget (02.03) can provide a number and/or a period of employment. It is the President's authority to meet the funds due to collective agreements on these workers, payment of notice and severance pay, a minimum wage and an insurance premium increase, and to transfer grants. The economic codes mentioned in this joke cannot be paid for in any way (except between the transfers between the economic codes and between the units for these codes), as well as labour fees and/or overwork fees from other arrangements of the budget can't be paid. The restrictions on the transfer of funds in this joke do not apply to TBITAK on the condition that they be transferred from their budget arrangements. The expense authorities of public administrations, which are part of Law 5018 (I) and (II), are obliged to do business programmes according to the budget prescribed for the extra work of permanent workers and temporary workers, not overstaying that allowance and/or overstaying their work for the next year due to extra work and/or more work. No grant can be made to pay overtime and/or overwork fees, except for transfers due to the earthquake, fire, flood, landslide, rock falling, overwork due to the President's decisions, which will be carried out due to avalanches and so on. (5) No international agreements can be made by public administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget, and no payment can be made under the name of membership due to the presidential's accession fee, without the appropriate view of providing the necessary grant to international institutions, except for international agreements, law and decrees. (6) The 5th joke sentence does not apply for international agreements, laws and decrees by the Ministry of Trade and the Treasury and Finance (including payment of participation) on behalf of the Republic of Turkey (including international organisations). (7) The education and recreation facility, run by the central administration of the public administration, is covered by the costs of homes, day care homes, day care centers, sports facilities and so on, and revenues from the operating of these private facilities. In these areas, new staff will be employed for the first time in 2022 to be paid for the return capital and funds with the central management budget. (8) Private budgetary administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget take the necessary measures to spend more than the amount assigned to the budget's budgets, 03.03.03.06- Representative and Representation Expenses, 03.07-Results, real estate rights and maintenance and maintenance expenses,.03.08-Results of real estate goods and maintenance and maintenance costs. The amount of funds to the regulations referred to by these administrations will not exceed 10 per cent of the initial funding of these arrangements, as well as the sum of funds to be added as part of the fourth fiction of Article 6. However, in the case of need, the President is authorized to make more than 10 per cent of the initial grants of these economic codes and add funds as part of the fourth joke of Article 6. As part of the first joke of the 7th Amendment, there are no restrictions on this joke in the addition of the 7th article to the installations containing the provisions of the (Securities of the 7th Amendment) and the (Securities of the Roads) 3.07-Results, real estate property, rights and maintenance and maintenance costs. (9) In return for self-inflicted income, the budget of higher education institutions (A) cannot be transferred between the grants organised by the higher education self-infinance code (except for the transfers between the grants imposed under the Student Life Subcommittee in higher education). Yes, the first word on behalf of the group is Mr. Orhan Çakır. Here you go, Mr. Jacks.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0125par0491	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party Group on Article 8 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. The world's developed countries begin budget processes in April. So in April, some policies are introduced, and then the institutions consider these policies and prepare budget proposals. And then middle-term programs come out, and that's how budget processes start. In our country, it is not understandable that the Midterm Program began in September. Dear lawmakers, in the target section of the budget offered in the High Assembly, continue policies on the spread of prosperity to all communities. Is society prosperous in its statement? No one's looking for food from garbage; college graduates don't work in chain markets; there's no teachers who can't be appointed; the farmer's income is increasing on world prices; labor and civil servants are satisfied with their minimum wage? This budget will continue in 2022 -- I regretfully say -- policy that does not create prosperity for society. At the end of the January-21 period of 2016, the fee for national net addition was reduced by 6.2 points. Turkey is a shock of division that affects the entire working class, which is rare in the history of economics. As we look at it yearly, the continuity of the shock also emerges. The injustices observed in the 2022 budget continue both in taxes and spending. On the tax side, most of them include tax expenditures, exceptions; tax exemptions also account for a quarter of the taxes intended to be collected in the budget. Two thirds of the tax collected in 2022 will be made up of indirect taxes, such as in every budget, which will be taxed by weight, and the entire income tax, which is 18.5 per cent in total tax revenue, will be obtained from the payroll of the taxpayers. Dear lawmakers, as with the presidential government system, our economy would gain a rapid momentum, and this system would lead to huge jumps in the economy, as well as a permanent stabilisation of the new system, the quick decision, execution and effective process of economic growth was mentioned, but today, let alone rapid acceleration, jump; the economy is losing credibility as the day passes. You came up with a theory called interest motive, inflation. You forced interest reduction by pressuring the Central Bank. What's the result? The exchange has gone up, the public's buying power has begun to decline, but you continue the interest reduction by continuing your so-called theory, by following a stubborn policy, by not learning from what happened. There's no product that doesn't have a raise, it's called the power side, making fun of our people who can't get along with the raises, not the weight, but the grams; and the fruit and vegetables with the grain. After your sentences, you even needed a citizen's toilet paper, so there's no such thing as buying power. Dear lawmakers, in the face of increased exchanges, sentences have begun to make no sense. In Japan, $114 yen was tried to create strange perceptions by being shown dry, but let me remind you, in Japan, the minimum wage per hour -- the minimum wage per hour -- is around $8 an hour -- and in our country, let alone a minimum wage -- is not worth $8 a day. In short, when you do the math, don't look here and there, look at the citizen, the citizen. If it were up to you, we grew up like this. Do you know what's growing? The burden on the citizen's back, the hole in his pocket. Precious lawmakers began to influence the agricultural sector as well as in many sectors, when the coronavirus epidemic hit our country in March last year. Today, the increasing exchange rate, the increasing droughts, increased the cost of entry, and the import of the Earth crop office over the years made our farmer feel frustrated. Our farmer, who can't pay his debts to the Bank and Agriculture Credit Cooperates, is selling his tractor and other equipment, and you know that. Our farmers are starting to drift away from production, thinking it's best not to produce in this market. Dear lawmakers, I visited our farmers during the wheat harvest in Thrace, my district. Our farmers said they were dropping around 10 per cent or 30 per cent of fertilizer in the face of rising fertilizer prices and general costs, and that some farms were unable to store any fertilizers. After increasing input costs and announced purchase prices, the farmer didn't want wheat bread anyway, and this year there was a great deal of narrowing in the fields of wheat crops, and without fertilizer, the yields would be very low. Mr. President, about two months ago, they couldn't find food in Germany, France. Well, then, Mr. President, I suppose Victor forgot that Hugo was a five-year rowing prisoner for stealing bread from Jean Valjean in his Les Misfort novel. I don't know how much the bread will be, with the raises in two months, and I'm curious to know how much they're going to explain to the citizens about the prices later. Dear lawmakers, every day the Turkish liras will finally flood to Edirne... where we used to go to Bulgaria and buy diesel, some food and clothes, where we would shop. The situation has now turned upside down as a result of missteps in the economy. You can't see 22 license plates in Edirne County, in traffic, in parking, in stores, in gas stations, in many places, more Bulgarian license plates. How could it not be? Leva's eight liras. While we're in the middle of living in our own homeland, Bulgarians who come to the city early in the morning fill the trunks of bags of carts, and we can't live in our own country. We're not complaining about Bulgarians coming to Edirne, they're a means of breathing for our tradesman. What we're sorry for is that at this point, the money in our citizen's pocket is stamps. Dear lawmakers, our Mr. President, Coral Akshener, is traveling through our country, bringing up the problems of the tradesman, farmer, worker, pensioner, citizen. In our visits, we see that the economic depression in our country is causing extreme poverty. This budget is the poverty budget. Dear MPs, the former Minister of Treasury and Finance -- who resigned from Instagram -- said that the dollar will be $10, 15 will be a long wait. You'll still be in power. You'll wait a long time. Bring the trunk across the street. I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0126par0504	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Ayşe Sibel Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0127par0507	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 8 of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. As the National Movement Party, we sincerely and constructively tried to contribute to 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. Our priority has always been to look out for the interests of our country and the welfare of our nation, because we always call it the party after my country and nation. When the law proposal was carefully examined, economic systems were intended to continue the strong rise of the Turkish economy at a time when production, center and resources, supply and demand were reformed, due to the global pandemic, and to increase the prosperity of our people. At the same time, improving public balances is also intended to protect the achievements achieved so far in the field of public finances in the coming period. In our country in the last two years, the Covid-19 epidemic has been the focus of natural disasters, forest fires, and a number of domestic and external economic and political developments. Terrorist attacks, domestic and external conspiracies, operations to be carried out through the economy have also marked the year 2021 after the chaos in our recent geography, the attacks on our sovereignty from Syria to Libya, the Sea of the Islands to the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East to the Caucasus to the Caucasus. Fiscal support, tax reductions and delays for households and firms whose short labour allowance has been used to ease the negative effects of the pandemic process on the economy has played an important role. While some of the data from our economy, which was negatively affected during the budget talks, cheered us up, some of the data showed that we needed more time to heal the wounds caused by the circumstances we were exposed to. In the fight against the epidemic, Turkey has become one of the most prominent countries in the world, with a predictive, planned, science-based approach and effective mobility. The Economic Stabilisation Shield Programme was primarily put into place in March 2020, when the first cases took place in our country, in order to reduce the impact of the outbreak on the economy, to minimize its negative effects on our citizens. Important support has been brought for the tradesman, industry, farmers, employees and narrow-income citizens. In this scope, all segments of society have been protected by measures such as short work grants, layoff bans, credit delays, cash support. With facilitating financing conditions for businesses, support has continued to increase in many areas, including work and social life measures. Compromises for structural problems in basic areas are being produced to achieve and achieve the goals envisioned by the presidential government system; however, significant production increases have been made possible in the economy to take steps towards investment, production, export and employment by continuing to take measures in accordance with the spirit of the government system. Due to a significant contribution to growth by the tourism sector and inoculation, the growth of Turkey's economy by 9 per cent in the entire year of 2021 is envisioned by a balanced demand composition, while the growth of three quarters points to the growth of 2021 will reach 10 per cent. In addition to the closures during the Pandemic period, increased food, navlun and basic goods prices, as well as the high course of global commodity prices, especially oil, has also increased inflationary pressures in Turkey's economy, parallel to all countries. However, the finance policy continues to demonstrate its determination to fight inflation and support our citizens. As one of the most important factors to determine inflation, an increase in prices of energy is being monitored worldwide at a record level, as a result of unusual developments in energy inputs and commodity prices. According to inflation dynamics in our country, global improvements, unilateral foreign currency effects, increasing food prices and pricing behavior have proved to be effective. In contrast, the fight against inflation continues with both financial policy and monetary policy. Inflation is under pressure in some goods, with fuel, rent-stopping and VAT reductions, and price increases are not being reflected in our citizens. As a result of increased expenditures and reduced revenues due to the Covid-19 epidemic, the country's budget deficits also increased significantly in 2020. From the beginning of 2020, the outbreak of Covid-19, which swept the world, continued its threat with different mutations, while our country's struggle success had a distinguishing feature, sufficient infrastructure, predictive, planning, preparation, dispatch and management. The Coronavirus pandemic reveals the institutional capacity and organizational skills of all countries. In this scope, Turkey has been positively separated from many countries with health infrastructure, competent staff, all institutional structures and organisational ability. Turkey has been an exemplary country in the fight against pandemics. Respected lawmakers, one of the most important lessons learned along with the global epidemic is the fact that national production is vital to countries. In the world that was unprepared for the epidemic, and in particular in Europe's leading countries and the United States production vehicles, they have experienced setbacks in supply of their most basic needs as a result of reducing certain costs and exporting them abroad. In other words, no matter how much money they had, we all witnessed them coming to a stage when the borders were closed and the factories were silent, where they couldn't even meet their most basic needs. We've seen the development of developed economies, especially Britain, and even the supply of mask and disinfectant that came into our lives through the epidemic, fail to provide vital materials for health workers. Members of parliament, along with the new government system, the road to Turkey has been built to be safe and peaceful, with permanent political stability, quickly and effectively systematic. Turkey responded more strongly to all threats and attacks by the Presidential government system during the July 15th coup attempt, during which our country's invasion plan was carried out as multi-frontal. A battle that is coveted by the worldwide outbreak of Covid-19 is also being waged, with the determination to protect both our rights of terrorism and sovereignty, as well as seven different kinds of political and military struggles. One of the important historical steps is that the results of the initial national technology move have started to be received, and many local and national productions have increased in many high-tech areas, especially in the defence industry, such as energy, software, medicine, and medical materials. The production of our national car has been launched, along with the national drones, the SIHA, the TIHA, the ships, the armored vehicles, and the weapons, as well as the operation of the national fighter aircraft.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0128par0519	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0127par0520	Thank you. Finally, with all the costs and the importance of continuing production and employment in our state and community, I wish that the budget of 2022 would be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0128par0523	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Imam Taşçıer. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0129par0526	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Kurds are close to one-third of the population of Turkey, with a population of over 25 million. As it is known, UN members have more populations than the population of dozens of states, but they cannot use their own language, including the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm going to improve my speech on language. When we speak two words in Kurdish here, we first receive a direct warning from the Deputy Speaker of Parliament that your microphone will be cut off. AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I've solved the Kurdish problem, I've solved the Kurdish issue; Kurdish problem no longer exists. He talks in different provinces every day. In fact, when we look at it, we see the Kurdish problem falling behind 30 years ago, even fifty years ago. How did he solve the Kurdish problem, where did he solve the Kurdish problem, even if he explained it to us? But he couldn't assimilated the Kurds; he couldn't destroy their language, their culture. I'd be happy to say that, too. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, go to the home of a Kurdish person living in Interior Anatolia, go to the house of a Kurdish person living in Istanbul, go to the house of a Kurdish person living in Antalya, Hakakari, Diyarbakır, knock on the door; when you enter, we all see them speaking Kurdish within themselves, in the family. We all know they'll do it that way. But what did Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan do? He held a rally in Diyarbakir, got two artists at the rally to sing the song, which means he solved the Kurdish problem with it. Or he had another meeting like this in Batman the other day, and at that meeting, he's trying to tell us that he's solved the Kurdish problem with his song,,,,, x). In fact, we have documents that do not exist, and that is what we see in our lives. Last year, I proposed a law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a law on the right to education in the native language. This is my proposal for the law, which Mr. Mustafa Sentop has given me, and he says: "The law proposal for education in the mother language has been examined by our presidency; the first joke of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey is an indivisible one with the state of Turkey and its nation. His language is Turkish. He says. We don't want to interrupt. We want to speak Kurdish, we want to study Kurdish. What does that have to do with being divided? I can't make that connection. It goes on: the sentence in question... and there's the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, where it says: "These articles cannot be changed." And there's the reference. It goes on, and it also says: "In the final joke of Article 42, no other language but Turkish language, education and teaching institutions -- look, it's very important -- can and will not be taught as their native language to Turkish citizens. And what you see is that the law rejects his offer. Friends say that's how you solved the Kurdish problem, the AKP and Mr. Erdogan. We already know that this practice -- you know -- has been going on for a hundred years with rejection, denial and assimilation policies. Kurds, on the other hand, are an ancient bee nation and Kurdish language is an Indian-European language group with languages such as English, Persian, Hindi, German, Spanish. The Kurds have always expressed themselves with the governments they built three, five hundred years ago, and the constant influence of tribal and state formations in the Middle East. Although the Kurds are not recognized by today's rulings, the opposite has come from the past to today as a powerful bee nation that has continued its language, culture, and descendants. Kurds have established dozens of states and the most powerful state is the Eyyubi state of Saladdin Eyyubi, which existed before the Ottomans. Although the history books in Turkey claim that there is no Kurdish state, this is not true, because the Eyubi state was part of the Arab and Turkmen, and the Kurds had a vastly Ottoman-like cosmopolitan structure, but the Ayyubi State said that it was Kurds, as it has mentioned in its letter that the Emperor was Kurds were ancient and lived in geography for centuries. Kurdish history, of course, is not limited to Ayyubi. The history of Kurds dates back to the Hitites, seen to be rich and known with the Meds. When we look at the literature history of Kurds, which is one of the two languages spoken in Turkey, it is possible to see all these elements that are the source of text literature because they are from the centers of Kurdish literature, Cizre, Hemedan, Erdelan, Imadiye, Bitkari, Hakkari, Eyabaşut, Mukus, Hizan, Meyafariikin (Silvan), Siirt, Diyarbakır, and the cities that have capitalised the capitalities of Kurdish states and capitalities of the Middle Ages. In these cities, Kurdish rulers, the principal educational institutions, founded and funded by Mirs and protected within the classical literary bossage system, have funded this written literature, and during this period Kurds have mastered history, philosophy, music, architecture, engineering, mathematics, astronomy. Among the leading Kurds of the period, historians such as Abul Fida, Ibn Attar, Ibni Sheddad and Ibn Qutaybah; philosophers such as Al Suhraverdi and Aynülkudât Hemedani, traveling Ibn Fadlan, Seyfeddin Urmevi, Mohammed Ibn Katib Erbili, Ibn İbrahim and Isaac, Musuli and Ziryab, architect Munis, architect and astronomer Muniddin Ahlati, biographer Fadlan, Ibi, Ib Erbilist, Ibn. We can add Feqiye Teyran, Ahmed-i Hani, Melaye Bate, Cigerxwin. The lack of education language in Turkey in modern-day Turkish, with such a decent history, is also a clear expression of devoid of history, of science, of culture. Language means more than just a means of communication. Every language is a carrier of the history and culture of the language-speaking society. For every man, the mother tongue has its own significance and its own place. The native language is the language that is an integral part of a person's personality, identity, emotional and mental development, where he began to learn from the first process of communication with the world. Imagine if we couldn't speak our native language, what would happen to all of you? Can't a person express himself in another language? Does he have to use his own language to live his identity? Questions may be raised, but the truth is that our native language is as vital and as important as ourselves and our identity.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0130par0536	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which speaks Turkish at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Talk about whatever you want, anywhere outside the House. You think you can't speak Kurdish anywhere.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0129par0537	In today's world, a part of the common cultural wealth of mankind, who sees languages as dangerous, prohibiting, and therefore trying to destroy...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0131par0539	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0129par0540	... that being a country doesn't fit scientific data, but being persistent is a reflection of your outdated racist approach. In particular, it is known that the policies of creating a homogeneous community in the process of the nation's state construction, assimilating policies, have led to serious dangers for cultural and linguistic diversity and wealth. In Turkey, which has a multilingual truth, they are not even considered healthy. Unfortunately, debates in Turkey are carried out only in the context of the Kurdish issue, instead of pedagogic principles or education rights, the need to preserve linguistic wealth as the common heritage of mankind. Of course, basic language education in Turkey is related to the Kurdish issue. However, since the Kurdish problem is not only the main language problem, the main language must be addressed on the basis of scientific data on education. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0131par0543	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ali Öztunç. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0132par0547	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I salute you. I don't know if you're aware, but I just looked at it, $14.69; euro 16.55; leva 8.47. So $1.14.69, 1 euro 16 lira 55 cents, 1 leva, 8 lira 47 cents a leva in Bulgaria. People are in a major economic crisis. The valued lawmakers of the EC PARTY come here, they talk, they look like roses, they paint a picture of dust pink Turkey; they paint a picture of everything very beautiful from this platform, whereas the AK PARTI is the values of the lawmakers, and if they go out on the street, they will see the truth. Look, this time last year, milk is $3.3, 15 today; a box egg is 20 liras today; 36 today; 50 lira per kilo of meat; 110; sunflower oil today; 35 lira per litre; 25 liras per sunflower oil today; 55, today 55; diesel 6.63, today 10.39; this time last year it was 119.5 liras, today it is 212.5 lira. The increase is over 100 percent; in each product -- maybe it's okay for you, maybe it's good for you, but these increases are bending people's backs. If you go out on a street, if you wake up in the morning, lawmakers from the AK PARTY, if you go around this town, and you see the public bread lines, what's the big deal? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, on the one hand, you're inflicting all kinds of torment on those who think about how economics will improve. Young people, college students, future directors want to do forums, the economic forum, the baton, the torture, the prison... and as soon as it comes to words, you hide behind the baccarat. Yes, in Bakara Surah, we are tested by hunger; by reducing products and goods. He says, right, he says -- Mr. Group Vice President, welcome -- but he doesn't say in Bazara's Surah: "Live in pleasure while the nation is hungry." He doesn't say, "Give the guards $260 million a month." He doesn't say, "Live in palaces while the nation is miserable." He doesn't say, "When the nation is miserable." Can you tell me where in Bacara's Surah are the luxury cars, the flying palaces? As for the people, do not diminish their goods, and do not increase your wealth; and as for the people, hunger, poverty, poverty, luxury, luxury, pleasure; and two tomatoes, and a pound of meat for the people; and when it comes to you, good news for you, gentlemen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You can't run the economy, you can't do it. You've turned the country into a million-year-old shop. In our Elbia, there used to be a millionth, a millionth of what you got; that's what you made Turkey. He comes from Bulgaria with a leva, comes with 100 leva, fills the bag and leaves. Our citizens used to go to Bulgaria, fill the bag. Now, it's coming from Bulgaria, it's filling its bag, it's leaving. He comes from Azerbaijan to Artvin, and comes to Hopa. From Georgia, he fills his bags and goes away. Why? Because you can't run the economy, you can't run the economy. But Mr. Numan Survivor has made a statement that we can't address the dollar on minimum wage today. He said it's not realistic, it's not right. He said it's not right. For God's sake, you're indexing the money for the five-way gang for the money of the highways, the bridges, and it's fair, but when it comes to the nation, isn't it right? [[Applause from CHP rows]] This power is not the power of the nation, it is the power of the rant, it is the power of the gang of five. You've lost all ties to the nation, you've had ties to the nation in the past, but as of today, there's no ties between the nation and the AKP. What else? Mr. Fuat Oktay is talking here. He says there will be no price increases, no courtship increases, no fate. That's right, Mr. Oktay, for days on this stand, in this House, you said the right thing; there will be no fate because you are not the fate of this nation, you will go! After you're gone, this nation's future will be much better. You've sold everything: SECA, TEKEL, iron steel factories, sugar factories, TELEKOM, coastal areas of treasured land, Tank Palet Factory... You sold the whole place, it's over; it's time for the stork. The last ports you sell are the ports of Antalya, where you seek to lead the Qatars. What did you find in these Qatars?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0133par0556	Money, money!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0132par0557	What is your love of Qatar? What kind of dialogue do you have with these Qatarians, a relationship that you're trying to give everything to the Qatars? In this country, to this day -- God rest his soul -- the presidency, anyone who's been Prime Minister, you've sold, sold, sold all their savings, sold, and you've come out and you're talking to those people! There was 128 billion dollars in the safe, you ate that money, you laid your eyes on the mountain. Now, all the mountains, stones, plains of Turkey are being driven away under the name of the authorities. You're doing HES projects on tiny fountains to get some money. He's become the American of the hand, the Canadian of the hand, coming all the way here, hunting wild animals in our mountains. For what? For money. You're suppressing money, hunting wild animals; it's a shame, it's a sin. Dear friends, I'd like to say a few words for my constituency, Kahramanmarash. Mr. Mahir Ünal was just here, at a meeting of his own, at the Afşin-Elbia Termic Plant, they said: "Don't worry, from January 2021, there will be a filter at the Afshin-Elbistan Termic Plant. No one will swallow any ash, no one will breathe any poison. Afshinite, Elbistan. They promised, we're entering 2022. Still no one is keeping their promise. Our citizens are still breathing poison in Afghanistan, swallowing ash; the plant, the filter still hasn't been plugged in, dear friends. The people who live in that area are still being persecuted, and Mr. Mehmet Mush Group was President Vekidi -- he was just here, and now he's not -- I have the reports, and he told me at these meetings that day when I spoke to him on the stand, he said, "Don't worry, Afshin-Elbia Termik Operator will be filtered in six months. I said, "It's not going to be installed." He'll hang out. I'll cut off my mustache. He said. There's still no filter, my friends. The Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0134par0560	Do you still have the mustache?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0132par0561	Dear friends, we built a state hospital in Elbia. They say there's no doctor. What should I do with the building? Make the hospital as much as you want, four walls. Doctor? There's no doctor. We've got a crossroad called Land, Maras Center, Arsan Crossroad. You haven't finished a intersection in two years. Yeah, you're that clumsy, can't you finish a crossroads for two years? Again, they broke down Kahramanmarash's little bus station, and we're going to build a bus station. They said, "They haven't been able to build a bus station for two years." People are trying to get on buses in the rain, in the cold, in the bus station, where the old bus station is. He's got stats on Maraş. Every time the election season comes, we're going to build a stadium. We did it to Antwerp, we did it to Kayseri. Well, you did it. Why don't you do it to Marash? They come in every election period, we promise, this time we'll do it. They'll take pictures, we'll do it. They'll show it. They'll say, "Only the roof of this one is a little crooked. Let's fix it a little bit and do it this way. But you haven't made a status for Maraş yet. We have tea called Aksu Tea, which you know is running chemically; it's a disgrace, it's a smell. I'm suggesting to the Minister: "Yahu, brother, this place is dirty, it needs to be cleaned." The minister answers me: "No, it's clean." Let's go together, I say. He's not coming. Let's go, send a representative, get a glass of water, drink it. Uh, nothing. Brother, let's go and mow the lawn together. I say let's swim there. No, they're not coming to that either. But Aksu Tea is leaking poison in the middle of Maraş. You know why? Because in the days of the Maraşite, they voted a lot for the AK PARTY, they took the cake in the bag, and even though we didn't serve this Kahramanmarash, they were already voting for us. Now, you will emerge, the polling chest will come, and you will see the lesson that the Marashian will teach you. Finally, I'm running out of time. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY period is coming to an end. The AK PARTY has been running this country for 20 years, and its mission is over. They're going through great destruction, they've done great damage, they've tampered with Turkey's values, they've done economic damage to Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0135par0568	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0132par0569	Thank you, Mr. President. But hopefully, when a chest arrives in 2022 at its earliest, when it can be done, this nation will not forget its adjective, nor will it forget to suffer in the bread lines while you enjoy it, and will say to you, "Let's go home, goodbye." Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0136par0573	Vocabulary requests for the groups are complete. First word on his behalf, Mr. Meliha Akyol. Mr. Akyol, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0137par0577	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 8 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since the First Age, our Yalova had a reputation as a summer town in Byzantine and Ottoman Empires. The fate of the Yalova Spas changed when Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk came to Yalova on August 19, 1929. Admired by the thermal, Ataturk has made a great effort to make this a world-famous health and water centre, a city of water, to build and care. The only gold medal he still holds today are the Yalova thermal hot springs. During our rule, our Yalova had become a new province five years ago, so the city's ihya and its construction were granted to the AK PARTY. In the first period of our rule, Altunova district was declared a shipyard. Today, the shipyard serves about 40 percent. As a result, 60,000 people are also employed. Turkey is doing 62 per cent of the shipping and yacht exports in Yalova, which contributes a great deal of foreign currency to our national economy. High-tech ships are being built in Yalova shipyards. All of these ships are designed to use new technologies according to the purpose of service, and some are the first in the world and the first in Turkey. For the first time in the world, ships have been built with environmental propulsion systems. Only electrical or electrical, natural gas, diesel, hybrid-powered delivery systems were used. Also, remote-controlled ships have been built, and drones such as autonomous submarines continue to be built. By our President, carbon fibres were produced by the very incentives given to factories in our province in 2008. This product is a strategic product used in defence industry, which is made only from Jalova, which is the second country in exports after China. It contributes to $276 million a year. With our President's vision, we opened our Ottomangazi Bridge in 2016. So Jalova Sabiha was thirty-five minutes away from Gökçen. Our province has become a center of attraction, and Turkey has a population growth rate of 3. As a result of the work of our Ministry of Industry and Technology, the OSBs were established in Yalova. By expressing our political will, we have shown our determination to become specialist OSB and green OSB. Over here, high-tech products will be produced, and our number of investors is increasing. The kiwi production of our Yalova, whose stone is gold, is abundant. Half of the total kiwi production in our country is done in Yalova. Yalova also comes in third place after Antalya and İzmir. Yalova is the first to produce the most orchids in the orchid. In our province, in 2020, our exports of outer space and cutting flowers are $5 million. Its forests, sea, waterfalls, spas, and Jalova are the pearls of our Marmara, which is why our province is multiplying. In our growing, growing province, different cultures live an asuded life together. Yes, as we always say, the people of Yalova deserve the best of everything. With that consciousness, we'll be opening our 400-bed Yalova State Hospital soon. The medical school of Yalova University was founded with our President's tensips, and we even received our first students this year; and, praise be to God, this has been a blessing to us. Investments and projects with the opening of the medical school have also been crowned.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0138par0587	You've opened law school, no law school faculty.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0137par0588	2053-2071, we will work tirelessly, without rest, with a dedicated spirit to achieve our goals.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0139par0589	Get out of here! We don't want you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0137par0590	You won't be able to stop us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0140par0592	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0137par0593	You took 80 years from us, you stole it. You took away the right to education of half the women in my country's headscarf, and you banned politics.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0141par0594	People's lives are miserable right now, condemning them to hunger and misery.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0142par0595	There's no more bread for you. Leave it, leave it; that door is closed.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0137par0596	Tens of thousands of young girls have been wasted, and you've cut them off everywhere.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0142par0597	You're still talking about it, you're still talking about it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0143par0598	No bread, no bread.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0137par0599	It's not enough, you've blocked the future of men with headscarves. (CHP rows) The president's wife is not a headscarf. You said you didn't bring her into the Republican reception.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0144par0601	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0145par0602	You couldn't change the headscarf mentality!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0146par0603	Don't wave, don't wave! Shame! Put that finger down, put it down!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0147par0604	You've lost 84 million.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0148par0605	There's no bread!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0149par0606	Until Mr. President comes out and says nothing will ever be the same.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0150par0607	There is no bread there; let them go; they have passed away.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0149par0608	I thank and thank the President for ending inequalities and prohibitions on behalf of the women of my country. These people haven't forgotten, they'll never give you a license again.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0151par0610	Stop abusing religion, Ma'am.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0149par0611	He says what we do is a guarantee of what we do, and I wish our budget for 2020 is good luck and good luck to our country and our nation of Necip.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0151par0612	Stop abusing religion. That's enough!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0149par0613	I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0151par0615	You can't condemn people to hunger and misery; we won't allow it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0152par0616	Second word for him, Mr. Sera Kadıgil. Mr. Kadıgil, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0153par0618	Sera Haným, you're in the HDP ranks, are you there?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0154par0619	If you're jealous, Mr. Cora. He's made a commitment to the budget law proposal, and I salute the General Assembly, but I'm not going to talk to anyone here today; I'm going to talk to you, to me, to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0155par0621	Then we won't listen.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0154par0622	I know the days are dark, you're tired, you're bored, you're bored, you can't live like a human being, you can't even buy toilet paper for the first of the month, you can't even afford a quarter of the gold you used to get today. I know, sister, I know you're tired of meddling in the life you're going to live, of embezzling, being beaten, murdered, in the name of family. I know, my young friend, that if you could, you wouldn't be in this country for another minute. I know you're tired of this scheme that makes you worry about the land, and of those who see you so much as a phone call, and of knowing that even if you work hard and become a doctor and an engineer, you won't be able to relax; you're tired of the future, of the lack of security; I see you're desperate, you're unhappy. They've destroyed the training, they've destroyed the production, they've destroyed our money, our safe is broken. So, do you think we'll ever be able to get back on our feet after all this fall? You know how they say, "Does this game come back from here?" Is it really possible to have a free and just country? For example, a country where no one is discriminated against because of language, religion, race, gender, sexual orientation; four days a week, for example, six or seven hours a day, where you get paid for your labor, when you retire, you live in peace and prosperity. Is there gonna be a country where the rich don't start life 10 to nothing, you don't have to borrow money from the bank to give your child a secular and scientific education, you can freely tell your opinion, you can buy politicians, you have to go abroad, a country where people want to run back to? A country where women can walk around town at every hour of the day without fear. Is there hope for such a country? I do, brother, I do, don't worry! I know there's still hope in this country, and I believe I can't talk here if I don't. There's hope for your life if you come home in the evening to teach your child not what's easy, but what's right, in spite of abuse messages from the banks all day long, and you still have to marry and have children, in spite of those who think you have to. If there are a handful of forest villagers standing up to the huge mining companies in the Aegean, standing up in the Black Sea with their cane, Mother Eve, there's hope that there are good people living among us who are willing to let the dog on the street eat for one night. If the man opposes the judgment in his letter in which he entrusted his daughter to us for 15 years because he had saved his life, then there is hope in this country if the LGBTI+s are on the streets at night and against them. Even though Nezahats, who believe that peace will surely come when they want peace in Ankara, have lost their legs in the ISIS bomb, but have been stubbornly drawn to Aunt Lisa, Nevruz, We are not afraid of you, and we are not afraid of you. The miners who say, "There is hope in this country if they have Saturday's mothers who have been stubbornly bothering you for eight hundred and seventy-two weeks! We are not afraid of you!" If Emel Anne, whom they slaughtered in the middle of the street, continues to teach hundreds of children who dream of a free world like Ali Ismail; Gülsum Abla, who waits for the day when we will answer to her son's killers without stepping back; if he is still standing tall in the Travel Park, there is hope in this country, if he's still standing for the trees we die for, and if he's still trembling in every case, there's hope, there's hope, friends, there's hope in this country. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) There is hope for this country if it has a youth who chooses to be equal and free, not to be religious and vindictive, despite it being born into this darkness, and forced by imam oratories, cult homes. There are millions of people in this country who stand up with dignity, without selling their dignity, when they can be slaves to the palace and save their lives.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0156par0625	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0154par0626	Thank you. Think not of the good people of this land, and the good people, and the righteous, that we are alone. They haven't been able to get rid of this hope in 20 years, that stubbornness, that we've already won because there's stubbornness, and there's hope if there's us. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0157par0630	Thank you. The speeches are complete. There's no question-answering process. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. Investment Expenses, Mahalistic Administrations and Fund-related Sentences No project can be spent on except projects on additional investment tables for the MADDE 9- (1) 2022 Investment Programme. The power to be carried out by the General Directorate of Electricity Production Anonymity and/or by the State Water Affairs General Directorate can't be paid for by 300 MW and above pumped HES projects (except by the Department of Transport and Infrastructure, city rail transport systems, subway construction projects and other truck projects, including renovations and other attracting vehicle projects, and production of electricity production companies, and the project's 20 percent of the project can't start in 2022 years, or less than 10 percent of the cost of the project. Projects for the underlying project and work can be revised by implementing the 2022 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Tracking Decision basis and first by staying within the investment funds of institutions. (2) The implementation of the 2022 Year Program on public administration's annual projects provided collectively for the investment programme, the implementation of machine-renewal, large repairs, maintenance-renewation, completion of computer software and hardware projects and sub-projected projects, which have been tasted and not implemented as part of their sub-projected projects. (3) Adding funds to the budgets of the central administration's public administration for investment projects, and transfers are linked to the investment programme according to the procedure and basis of the 2022 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Surveillance Decision. (4) Applying, Co-ordinating and Following the 2022 Year Investment Programme for mandatory changes during the year is followed by procedures in the Decision of the Year 2022. It is associated with projects on the investment programme by the project owner of the project, provided it has been granted funds to transfer into the budget of 2022 under Article 28/A of the Law on the High Discipline Board of Interior, dated 14/2/1985, and to provide information to the head of Strategy and Budget under the interim Article 10 of the Law on State Investments and Services. The first word on the matter is Mr. Imam Hussein Flitz. On behalf of the Good Party Group. Mr. Flitz, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0158par0646	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our PTA Group regarding Article 9 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation. This article describes the general principles of spending funds in the 2022 Investment Programme. In addition, it is a clause that is repeated every year in the budget law, and it is appropriate. Dear lawmakers, we know that the EC PARTI government, as well as any other issue, has succeeded in the efficient and efficient use of resources in investments, and has created debates on everything with incompetent and unlicensed staffs, and they are not transparent in contracts with firms. After the presidential government system, I made investments, it happened. We see that your understanding of the presidency prevails. Therefore, mistakes are being made and Turkey spends most of its time arguing. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to rephrase some matters. In the next 15 to 20 years, our grandkids will be ready in eight months. The ALTAY tank, which he called the Defence Industry Chairman, is still no more than thirty-six months, is no longer available; the engine and the transmission system are no longer available. If they don't exist, how are you going to build a tank? In engineering, 10 per cent is an acceptable margin of error, but in the process, the error has exceeded 100 per cent. Is it obvious from the beginning, that you're surprised? Hopefully not for the automobile. We don't have a motor, we don't have a gear box. You don't say. The Minister of Industry and Technology said that the budget presentation had a vehicle camera built and showed it here; it's a joy. He also added that the servo engine and the CNC have been staged. In fact, Turkey has an infrastructure for the CNC, and thirty years ago, we did these countertops the same way. In the 1990s, TAKSAN and a private company produced three-axis CNC countertops. You closed it in 2003, privatized it. The private company stopped manufacturing because it could not compete with foreign companies. Several companies still produce 3-axis CNC countertops, but the servo engines, control units, sleds, screwed miles, flashlight miles are edited from abroad. The domestic and nationality rate is quite low, but even if it's montage, we're seeing a little bit of a positive ratio, but it's not right for the Minister to make it sound like it's just being done. If there's a five-axis countertop, we've gotten somewhere in technology, which is when it's appropriate to brag. Dear MPs, once self-sufficient Turkey in agriculture, now in agriculture, depend on its fertilizer, its medicine, its seed. False agricultural policies and insufficient support have brought down farmers, condemning the citizen to the line of bread. Unaccounted agricultural products and animal imports have brought agriculture and livestock to an end. The wrong policies have finished the trade, the pensioner. What's more wrong than wrong is that the Tank Palet Factory, the F-35, the S-400 missile defense systems have been discussed a lot, and I'm not going to go there, but I'm going to say that these are unaccounted-for projects. If I count it a little bit more, it's just unprovoked from producing science and technology, unprovoked universities in trouble, millions of unemployed colleges, honey-bought tenders to co-designed contractors, who've been waiting to be completed for years, and essential to Turkey, like the GAP, KOP, DAP, DAP and DOKAP regional development project snake story. Even in the best situation, two and a half million hectares of water can only be watered by 580,000 hectares. While the Plain of Iconia waits for water, East Anatolia, East Black Sea waits for attention and support, and whether you explode or explode, it is the Canal Istanbul which is to be made with its insistence and understanding. In the end, our country has been invested in debt to foreign countries. One of the major factors in our coming to these conclusions is inadequacy and lack of a license. Because you didn't want free people who thought with their own minds, who knew themselves, who spoke by heart, who lied, who cheated, who cheated on a citizen, who spoke of honesty, who always spoke of orphans, and who taught morality to the people. As I said in my speech in the budget talks of the Ministry of National Education, do not come to me as a slave to Almighty God. It is not possible to improve unless you receive the scripture as a value in education. Dear lawmakers, an economist says there are four ways to spend money. First, you spend your own money. In this case, the price and quality of the goods you buy are your business, and you try to buy both cheap and quality. Second, you spend your money on someone else. In this case, the price of what you buy is your business; you buy cheap goods, quality is not important. Third, you spend someone else's money on yourself. In this case, you look at the quality, the price doesn't matter, it's someone else's money. The fourth form is that you spend someone's money on someone else, so you don't care about the quality or the price. I'm not going to ask what shape is being applied in public right now -- you all know that -- but it's the first form that comes in our way. Those in the spending office should not have the sense to spend government money as their own money, including the President, no matter who he is. In short, follow the example of Hazreti Omar, Omar bin Abdulaziz, whose heart trembles as he spends every penny of the state. Another important factor is the closure of institutions that contain the state's memory. THE AK PARTY governments have changed many institutions over the past 19 years; they have closed some, replaced some, replaced some, changed some. State Chief of Staff, the Refik Saydam Institute of Hifzishaha, some of the examples of the State Planning Agency. The State Planning Agency was founded in 1960 to ensure the efficient use of the country's resources and speed up development, to conduct economic, social and cultural development in some way, to prepare annual programmes with long-term development plans, and to monitor their implementation. DPT, despite its many shortcomings, was run by a direct undersecretary of the Prime Minister, who provided very important services to our country with 10 five years of planning. The DPT was inexplicably shut down in 2011 and replaced by the Ministry of Development, and after the June 24th elections, the Ministry of Development was adopted into the Ministry of Industry and Technology, which means the Ministry of Development has been shut down. July 10, 2018, No. 1. In the presidential decree, the development plan will now be carried out by the President of Strategy and Budget, within the framework of basic goals, principles and objectives set by the President. Many units of the agency have been shut down in the new configuration. The job of planning to advise the government has been taken away from you. You don't make me a script, you just become a do-it-all president. The Republic of Turkey's bureaucratic, economic and development memory has been wiped out, and our economy has been transformed into a completely unplanned and unpredictable economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make another point. In all the countries of the world, the statistical institution is closely associated with the planning institution or with them, and so are we. TÜİK, formerly known as the State Statistical Institution, was the joint entity of the DPT, then the Ministry of Development, the last entity of the Treasury and Finance was built; you see instability. AT the time, the TİK was helping to plan with its statistical work.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0159par0658	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0158par0659	For example, Turkey's national revenues per capita among the regions were compared, and the DPT was able to propose development projects for the establishment of intergalactic balance. Dear lawmakers, I say, let the TİK stay behind, according to its information that if planning is done, it's official that we're going down, and that's the real destruction in the state. As the developed countries maintained their institutions and made them more efficient, the EC PARTY government either destroyed the institutions or, as in TİK example, lost confidence in public opinion. Dear lawmakers, we can't get anywhere with these budgets that can't balance poverty, corruption and interest-smelling revenue costs. There's no development without a plan. The chain of outside dependency must be broken by mobilization in science and technology, priorities must be set, especially to minimize income imbalance between regions...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0160par0663	Your time is up, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0158par0664	Okay. I wish you the best of the 2022 budget.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0160par0667	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Sermet Atay. Mr. Atay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0161par0671	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak on behalf of our nationalist Action Party group on Article 9 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, our country has been run by the presidential government system for over three years. Our nation made up its mind in a referendum on April 16th, free of the weights of the parliamentary system and its moldy shackles. This choice, which we see as a turning point for the 21st century, has brought with it a process of rapid development and acceleration. Basically, this system is the Turkish-type presidential system. Following the adoption of the presidential government system, the most comprehensive management reform in the history of the Republic, a busy period of reform has begun and legislation on all institutions and institutions of our state is being revised according to the new system. The steps taken in many areas, such as justice, education, security, and innovation have also accelerated the access of citizens to state, nation, and service. Mr. President, in the years when we were run by the parliamentary system, especially in the process of multi-party elections, our country has been subjected to system impositions and chaotic situations. The government's crises following the elections and the early election process caused by this situation have been destabilised, the state's order has been corrupted. The government's crises have caused gaps of governance, the world's view of different political parties closed to reconciliation, and many such excuses have led to the threat of national will by military juntas and the destruction of coups. When we look at democratic management models around the world, there are three management models as presidential, semi-presidential, and parliamentary systems. These management models are essentially separated from the relationship between the structure of legislation and the structure of governance. One of the most important problems of the parliamentary system in our country has been the duality of governance. After the 367 crisis in the 2007 presidential election, a constitutional amendment was made for the President to be elected by the public, and for the first time in 2014, the nation elected the President directly. The situation that deepens the bilateral problem in the administration has become the most important problem to address when July 15th is threatened by a treacherous coup attempt. By eradicating bilateralism in the administration, the fundamentals of the great Turkish goal, which is quick to make and implement, thus boosting its productivity for prosperous tomorrows, ridding it of the problems inside, starting to have a say in the region and in the world. Law, judgment and execution are separated from clear lines, and our Parliament has been strengthened as a balance and control mechanism. On a regional and global scale, we have internationally legal, legitimate and national policies, our backs, our security, our sovereignty rights, our historical heritage. Relationships with the Turkish world expand co-operation in many areas. The Organization of Turkish States, where all Turkish states are united, has recently been established and has begun its activities. The growing Turkish hostility in the West and also the emergence of Islamophobia stemming from the growing fear of Turkey. The Western world has always seen Turks as the flagmaster of Islam in its more than a thousand years of non-Islamic warfare. For Westerners for at least a thousand years, Turkish means Muslim, Turkish means Turkish. Turkey, which was not allowed to assume a mission beyond the status of the satellite state in the context of relations with the EU and the United States and was tried to stay in orbit through NATO, sought to be drugged by moderate Islam in its new world order. Meanwhile, a social vaccine was attempted through inter-religious dialogue fiction, allowing the vaccine to become an operational organisation used for mass injection. The West carried out its final move in Turkey to govern, change the administration, take over the state on July 15, 2016, in an attempt on military coup, but in the face of the initiative, it found the unshakable will of the Turkish nation. Turkey has torn up its new order shirt, which has been tried to harvest its ancestors' spirit, as well as returning to the independent, sovereign, role model state function in the founding years of the republic with the President's government system to rise in its region and the world. On this occasion, the narrow satellite that Ataturk was stuffed in after his death broke the government shell. Given this perspective, it will be easier to claim that the Republican Alliance was based on the national support, that it came from the heart of this nation, and that the alliance was formed by the great Turkish nation, not political parties. The reinforced parliamentary system will not be able to divert the caravan from its path. The achievements set out with the presidential government system in the coming period must be crowned with a new constitution that is completely in harmony with the Turkish-type presidential system, free of guardianship ethics and couptarian mentalitys. During the time we left behind, the activities of terrorist organizations controlled by global forces inside and outside have been recognized, and have been put in charge of planning the terror corridor that is being created on our borders. Kurdistan's dreamers, tie-in separatist terrorists have not escaped Turkish justice, traitors such as Osman Kavala, who serve the secret services of global forces and are enemies of the state, answer to Turkish justice; those who dream of meeting with tied terrorists at breakfast will be disappointed. The success achieved in the defence industry has disturbed Turkey's enemies, and the national industrial and development moves have activated these forces. Our drones, our developing weapons systems, have brought our government to the end of its dependency on the outside. The idea of Turkey, which produced its own tank, its helicopter, has caused global barons to lose sleep. In the Mediterranean, our rights were not violated, and despite us, they were shown to the whole world that nothing was done here. While Turkey is carrying out these breakthroughs, the focus to prevent this rise has begun to intercept us in an asymmetric economic war, revealing a new plan. The world's economic and social order has changed in the pandemic process, which has been under the influence of global trade and production for nearly three years. Our state has taken measures against every part of our nation in the economic war, and has not withheld its support from the state's industrialists until it works, from the employer to the tradesman's. Our government is seriously encouraging industrial investments, and the necessary steps are taken without getting caught in bureaucratic barriers. My own constituency, Gaziantep, has become the engine of our country in industry and exports. In 1969, the Gaziantep Organised Industrial Region of Gaziantep, the largest organised industrial zone in Turkey, was signed by the Ministry of Industry, with its foundations laid out over 43 million square metres, and the Gaziantep Organised Industrial District-Industrial Area-Infrastrial Waterwork Protocol was signed by the Ministry of Industry. It is a necessity for our growing exports and the economy of our province to be relocated by Turkish Airlines to Erbil, Iraq, where our Gaziantep producers are engaged in heavy trade. This will reduce time and costs spent on transfer flights. Gaziantep, one of the number-one gastronomy cities in the world beside its industry, is a hot spot for local and foreign tourists. The terminal building of our city's new airport will be opened on the anniversary of Gaziantep's release from enemy occupation, on December 25th, with the participation of our President. Since there is an airport in our region that employs about 4 million people with increasing populations and internal volumes, Turkish Airlines in particular put additional flights into our major cities, such as Ankara, Istanbul, Antalya, and increasing the number of expeditions are a legitimate demand for our city. The road to Nurdaku-Gaziantep, which causes serious accidents and loss of life, must be finished at once, ahead of those losses. For decades, the watering projects of the plains of Barak must be accelerated, fertile, and accrued to these lowland water resources that are accrued to agriculture and contribute to our country's economy. In Gaziantep, there is a significant production of olives as well as the production of the Felipe nut. The work to increase the production and the recollet, organised by the Chamber of Commerce, is admirable. However, the lack of a stock market for this product, the lack of a business for a packaging facility, puts the olive producer in a difficult position. It is our local producer's right to have the organization and facilities for our Antep nuts encouraged for the olive producers, and therefore to offer the manufacturer opportunities, to build an olive and olive stock in our Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Agriculture's co-operation. I hereby submit this request to the nation's bench, announcing that I will be a follower of the matter, and I salute the great nation of our budget, our country, our nation, our state.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0162par0683	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ayşe Acar Başaran.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0163par0685	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our dear people watching us on their screens, and our dear comrades, our friends, who are still being held hostage in prisons, I salute everyone. Yeah, actually, we've been discussing budgets for days. From the very first day, we have been persistently and persistently saying that this budget is not the budget of people, women, young people; this budget is the war budget, this budget is a misogynistic budget, this budget is the budget of the subsidiaries. Of course, perhaps I'll say it at the very end in the beginning: this is the AKP's final budget.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0164par0687	They've been saying that for 20 years.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0163par0688	We'll do the next budget with the public, with the women, with the young, with the poor, and we'll put an end to this injustice together. So, guys, why do we call this budget a misogynistic budget? Because when you take out your personnel expenses in this budget, the woman has almost no name, but on the one hand, the power has once again supported anti-female regulations to implement its own policy, which is to implement its monotheistic regime. Now, we, the HDP Women's Assembly, launched a campaign in February, the Justice for Women campaign, which we know is already virtually impossible to access to justice in this country, 90 per cent of society states that there is no justice in this country, but there is a more dire picture for women. Women are being slaughtered every day, women are being harassed, raped in the custody of power in this country, women are getting a little poorer every day in this country, poverty that already exists is growing, expanding in terms of women, and we have carried out the two-part stage of this campaign with the Justice for Women. We've been to dozens of cities, we've met hundreds of women, we've met with dozens of women, and we've really discussed how we can eliminate this woman's poverty together, and eventually -- again, we've done what the Assembly should have done -- what would the social gender-sensitive budget be like? We've gone through the debate, and we've come up with a lot of suggestions for that. Now, who have we met while we've been wandering all over these cities? We met with Roman women -- women who are told of such wonderland here -- and we listened to their conditions, their deep poverty. The Roma are one of the most systematically ignored parts in this country, which are not accepted, which are systematically ignored, and let me repeat a woman's statement to her from here: Roman said that he went to his neighbor to fill his toilet because there was no toilet in his house. We met with agricultural working women, we met with women who were artists, we met women who were refugees, we met women who worked with textile workers, we met women who worked with household axes, despite you, we met women who built co-ops and worked through them, we met with co-oper women, we met women who worked for them, we met with women who worked in Syria, we met Armenian women, we met with Arab Flame women, we met women on women platforms, so we met all the parts you didn't really see, you didn't hear, we met here, and I wanted to express their problems here, and maybe you didn't hear them from here, but maybe you didn't hear them again. At Midyat, we met with the Suryan women, and the women said: "Because we are so common, we cannot sell our cheese and milk. Again, we met with apricot women in Iğdır, and the money I received was spent until I went home, and I couldn't buy my child diapers, and I couldn't afford diapers. The apricot workers said. Again, we met with seasonal farm workers, and there's no water, there's electricity, but with money, we're humiliated here. We met up with textile workers in Bursa. We work ten hours a day. They said we didn't earn enough. We met with women with house axes in Antwerp, so there was no more water, no more water, no more tents, but I couldn't get enough, so I went back to this counter and had to work. Women said, "I have to work." We also met with agricultural workers in Jehanbeyli. It's too close, not too far, but it doesn't seem to be from here, unfortunately, far away from your eyes. Women in Jahanbeyli, where we were going, some of us were born in the fields. They said, "We were born in the fields." And indeed, many children had to work in the fields. We met the women who worked in the greenhouse, they were making tomatoes, and you know what they used to say, women who worked in the greenhouse? We can't buy the tomato we produce at the grocery store. Women called it. Again, I met with traveling women in Izmir -- women always said, "We don't want help, we don't want favors." I don't want help, I want to do my job, I want work. Women everywhere we go. We met with farm workers in Adana. Of course, that was before the dollar went up, and now they can't get that either. They said, "We're taking 1 kilo of fat for a day's work." But right now, women can't get 1 kilo of fat for a day's pay. In Adıyaman, we met a tobacco worker woman and she had to leave her studies behind. He left the first grade as a literature teacher, expressing that he could not continue his studies, that he had to work as a tobacco worker. Again, a woman in Jahanbeyli said, "We're working ten hours, children, things at home... actually, not twelve hours, but twenty-four hours in terms of women." Once again, we are waiting for twenty people to take a shower when we return from the field. This is the picture of Turkey that you created. We've met again with musician women. They had to sell their instruments out of poverty. Yes, this is the picture of the women you created of Turkey right here in front of us. We had promised women that they would not be heard from here, but We made another promise to them from here. We're going to change, we're going to change, we're going to change, we're going to change, we're going to change, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, We know that women are considered a great threat to power. We're a big target for him everywhere. You withdraw from the Istanbul Convention in the middle of the night. Every day you organize and pave the way for hostile policies against women in every field. You're in an alliance with men, you say men slaughter women on the street, but we, the HDP Women's Assembly, state that this will not go on like this and that we can create transformation in all areas. And we made that happen. See, as the HDP Women's Assembly, we are the compound of the Kurdish women's movement, the feminist women who have been fighting in Turkey for decades, and the common heritage of the Turkish women's movement. We have female friends in our Women's Council from many different identities, many different beliefs, many different ideas. Our common denominator is women's struggle. Our common denominator is the fight against male sovereignty, and our Women's Assembly has acquired a Coke from the commission with previous years' experience, and ultimately, now a unique autonomous organization. We make our own decisions, we make our own programs, and these decisions connect all of our party mechanisms. We're actually implementing a model system for the world with the co-chair system at our party right now. Again, not the quota system -- well, what the House still hasn't accomplished, let alone succeeded -- we're applying equal representation within our party. [[Applause from HDP rows]] From there, there's a lot of bragging about these platforms. We're actually the party that enhances the representation of women in parliament. Let me just tell you a few of the results from the last election. We, the HDP, are here with 25 female MPs, almost equal representation. In AKP, 53 -- I don't even want to tell you the total MPs -- 18 in CHP, 5 in CHP, 3 in the PDP Party -- in fact, as I said, we're the ones who have increased the representation of women in parliament. Again, we are implementing a unique model in the world -- two members of the council -- by implementing the co-chair system in all our localities. This model of ours, which is to be looked after anywhere in the world, given all kinds of support for its development, was unfortunately considered a major threat to the AKP, targeted, appointed trustees, but we had a lot of successes there, too. Look, we've established office offices in our municipalities in major cities, offices in districts and municipalities, and they have three basic working areas.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0165par0695	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0163par0696	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Fighting violence against women, developing women's economies, education and research. And by building a lot of women's institutions, we actually created a huge transformation in society, and in our practice of local governments, we set up a model of women's municipalism, we built women's-friendly cities, and we organized our local governments budgets in terms of gender-sensitive budgets. Not just in areas of women, but in fact in all the notes of the budget, we have prepared our budgets with a perspective that sees the woman as well as those disadvantages. We believe that when we overthrow this power, instead, we will be part of a women's liberal government, and we want to express to the women here once again that when this singular power is gone, we, together with you, with the women, will bring this country into a freer government. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0166par0700	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, please welcome Mr. Honorary Adil.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0167par0702	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 9th Amendment regarding investment expenditures of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Today is the 10th day of our 12-day budget marathon. If we count the commission talks, we've been listening to Justice and Development Party speakers, MPs, ministers, all together for weeks, and eat less. We see that at every opportunity, those who seek refuge in the back of the nation's sovereignty have become unaware of the state of the nation. Turkey is rolling down the hill today, like a truck with a broken economy brake. You're responsible for this. You set people on fire. I know everything, I know the economy. Your understanding of the economy threw this country into the fire. When we have the authority, we will reduce interest, how will we deal with it, with it, with this, with this? You said, "The dollar has tripled today." Worker, farmer, retired, young, old, poor 84 million. We're number one in Europe in inflation, we're setting record after record in unemployment, our inflation numbers are moving fast towards three figures. After everything that's happened, the Justice Development Party comes out and paints pink paintings here. I wonder, are you just watching side channels? We've seen it, and you're afraid of street interviews, and you intend to lock up interviewers. But don't you ever go to the market or the market? In this country, baby food is sold by alarm, and mothers in this country give milk to their children out of poverty and poverty. In this country, fathers commit suicide because they can't buy pants for their children. So, what do you guys do? You're ignoring them, avoiding responsibility. And there's a new issue, the economic model. A month ago, there was no economic model or anything. I'd like to ask you: on November 12th, there was Lütfi Elvan who submitted the budget to the Commission. Did Lütfi Elvan resign so he wouldn't be part of your economic model lie? (HPP) Now, you've brought in a new minister of economics. The reason this Minister has no economic education, even because he hasn't passed the economy, right side, left side, or left side of the economy, which seems to cheer up with his statements, he said yesterday: "Ya, you'll be the most unemployed, I'll go down, I'll lose everything. If you're afraid of losing everything, go sit at the head of your company and don't try to run the economy. But we understand that he was put in charge because he didn't know the economy. There's a Chinese model in the middle. I'd like to point out that if by model China you mean turn Turkey into a cheap labor force paradise, you've already accomplished it. Today, Turkey is more backward than China, based on its minimum wage. In 2023, Turkey is competing with Bangladesh on cheap labor, so your model is Bangladesh, not China. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, if you're keen on China's authoritarian leadership, you've also accomplished very well; you've put democracy, freedoms, human rights, law underfoot; you've already moved our country into the league of authoritarian countries in China, India, Russia. You can write a book about it, and I can recommend its name: How did I sink this country in twenty years? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, as long as you have this mentality, as long as it's stubborn, as long as you're stubborn with everyone, as long as you have unpredictable, untrusted economic policies, no model will work. Understand, we do not sacrifice the laborers and young men of this country to your cheap labor. (HPP) We don't serve the young people of this country to America, to Europe. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I assure you, you don't know what you're doing. You're experimenting with people's money, you see that you've lost, so let's press all the keys, and we'll see what happens. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If you followed the example of China, you would invest in technology, in R&D, in education, in people, in sectors that make addition value. What does Turkey spend on RD in a year? $55 billion, I couldn't turn it into dollars because I was embarrassed. What's China's one year, 2020 RD spending? $370 billion. Let's do a little math here: ours isn't even $4 billion; I'm ashamed; we haven't invested $4 billion in R&amp; but we're going to grow! In 18 years of Justice and Development Party rule, only 1.09 was the share of the illegal domestic product of the R&D. China has a technology giant company, Huawei -- you all know -- do you know what he spends on RD every year? 20 billion dollars, which is five times more than Turkey, is spent by a Chinese company. There are 2,500 companies in the world that invest most in R&D; 536 is in China, and only 6 is from the Turkish Republic. So, what are you trying to do about the company that invests the most? You're trying to sell to the United Arab Emirates, which you say is the finance of the coup attempt. You've denied it for now, you've denied it, but it's a ritual. How do you add the values of this country to Qatar, how do you sell it to a strategic organization like the Tank Palette Factory, and how do you get it to TSK inventory in 2018? If there are no tanks, how can you forget TÜRK TELEKOM -- maybe you forget -- but we didn't -- and then you can bring it to someone and empty it on their back, and then you can do everything again. You sell like fathers, you don't leave rocks in the country. I want to pick on the MHP group from here. Dear Group Vice Presidents, MPs, I have questions for you. Has the factory been sold for the price of an apartment in this country? Have the factories in this country sold their safes full of money? In this country, were the KİSCE estates given to supporters? Get out there and answer this or get those privatisation reports off your website. (CHP cheers) Although, we've got them all down, but you can either pick them up or come out.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0168par0716	Did you just download it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0167par0717	Dear friends, in 19 years, those who invested in the side, who made Qatar look good, who gave money to interest lobbyes, didn't put a penny into technology, education, science, research.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0169par0718	Yeah, you've been talking about it all morning.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0167par0719	From here, we begged: "Don't invest in creation; let's invest in technology, science, man, research." (HPP clapping in rows) They came up here and said, "We're not going to be buying technology, we're going to be producing technology." Let alone export technology, we can't afford the simplest technology. They said, "We're going to the moon. Car prices are so high that people are on foot, not on foot, not on foot, not on foot, people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, in the 21st century, when everyone talks about offering the Internet as a basic right, we give our university students the Internet by quota during the pandemic period. We asked this in the Commission, we gave questions motions, we asked the Minister directly, and we didn't get any answers because they didn't want to answer because they didn't say that we didn't invest in infrastructure to give young people the fast, quota-free Internet. I think they gave Fuat Oktay different numbers, or our next numbers are different, or the Speakers of the Justice and Development Party have made it a habit to get on the stand and read stories from La Fontaine. Mr. Oktay, I don't know if he's aware that only 4 million children have stayed out of education during the pandemic period. You've deleted Mehmet Cengiz's tax debt 30 times, make an account of it, how many students could you provide computers and internet with the taxes you deleted? Who is Mehmet Genghis? Who's Kolin? Who's Kalyon? Who are they, feeding off the backs of 84 million of our citizens? Well, if there's anything going on in the state of this country, it's you, your allies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I finish, just one minute?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0170par0724	Complete.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0167par0725	In this country, young people who have rotted elbows for years, who are engineers, who are doctors, who can't move forward, leave the country because they can't pay for their labor. We're moving on so-called technology, Fuat Oktay tells, Varank tells, valuable friends don't lie, numbers don't lie, Turkey is shrinking in technology exports, and our rate is down to 2.7 per cent. Look, my dear friends, the cheese boat doesn't walk with words. Now the ruling Justice and Development Party has nothing left to give Turkey, young people, women, workers, farmers, pensions. (HPP) I predict this will be the last budget of the Justice and Development Party. Don't worry about the young, the women, the workers. From now on, there will be a budget that prioritizes budget science, technology, women, young people, farmers, workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0171par0729	Mr. President, I'm hanging on. He said clearly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0167par0730	I'm picking on you, yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0172par0731	I'm clearly picking on her. She said.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0171par0732	Yes, my friend is very excited, so let us give you an answer.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0173par0733	Don't make fun of me?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0171par0734	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0173par0735	But take your time. You know, according to the Group Vice President's agreement, I'm going to do that after I've completed all the talks on the matter.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0171par0736	Yes, sir. Okay, we gave it a shot.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0173par0737	I mean, you've had your chance, I know, but... Yes, now, the first word for the individuals is Mr. Job Ozsoy. Mr. Ozsoy, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0174par0741	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us on the screen. Despite the economic balances that have deteriorated on a global scale in the world's pandemic, we leave behind another year when we have strengthened our country in all areas, weighted exports, supported domestic and national investments, reduced external dependence. I'd like to share with you some of the openings of our AK PARTI bridge and tunnels, Bartin-Kurucashile road, Bedere-Bizzdere road and access tunnels, Salarha Tunnel, Redcaham-Tunnel Tunnel, Diyarbakır-Ergani-Ergani-PARTI bridge access roads, Hasankeyf-2 bridge, Malatya Tohma Sherryhit Gaffari Solar Bridge, Ergana Barıtaj, Testıtana Barıtanatıtı, Redcaham-Trum Tunnel, Diyarbakır-Ergani-Ergi-Ergitizı Bridge, New York Station, and the new facility of the facility. Yeah, there's no groundbreaking ceremony, no sculpture ceremony, no taping ceremony. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, because of my limited time, many of these great works that I can't count are not in the 20 years of AK PARTY's power, but in a single year's work. (AK PARTY) The services of the EC PARTY are obvious, and it takes eyes with national gaze and hearts of love to understand what is being done. (APPLAUSE) I am proud to be the companion of a world leader such as Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been the first in every election in 20 years, who has become the hope of all oppressed geography. I am also honored and honored to be a member of the Cumhur Alliance, which stands firm in the face of enemies of the state and nation, who live by the strong union of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and National Movement Party, Mr. Dr. State Gardener. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] So, what did someone do when we were working day and night to offer these services to our people? They threatened the government's officer, bureaucrat, teacher, martyr families, insulted our farmers, dreamed of breakfast with the terrorist leader, tried to put our young people on the street, took care of their traitors. (CHP rows) Yes, since I am not involved in a political movement of terror organizations, which has been established with hired lawmakers, who have been humiliated to the family of martyrs, because I am not involved in the lack of morality, the enemy of state and nation, the invertebrate politicians of imperialism, and because I am not part of a political movement of terror organizations.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0175par0747	You're the rental, it's a rental!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0174par0748	... and I am thankful to my Lord that I am not a member of a party that is constantly remembered for harassment and rapes, and that the President of the United States is in charge of a disgusting tape conspiracy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0176par0750	Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0174par0751	Just as our nation fought for independence with its entire existence a hundred years ago, in 2023, it will still stand firm in the face of these rotten minds and will give you the answer in the chest.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0177par0753	Let's see the chest!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0178par0754	Then why don't you go to the trunk?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0179par0756	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0180par0757	What we're doing is not even the dreams of these mankurt, mandatic minds. No matter what anyone says, no matter what they do, we will never turn our backs. Finally, on the first day of the budget talks, all of Turkey, unfortunately, was followed by the moral framework by the CHP's president from the honorable bench of our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0181par0759	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0182par0760	He's barely done it to you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0180par0761	This move is a move against our nation, and I, as a member of the nation, am returning it to Kemal Kilicdaroğlu and CHP Group on behalf of the nation, as the CHP Deputy Leader has described it by making it innocent in Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0183par0763	You took her on, you. You're the only one who can handle it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0184par0764	Son of a bitch, motherfucker!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0180par0765	With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that our budget of 2022 would bring blessings to our state, our nation, and our oppressed geography, our Veterans Assembly, and our great nation, with respect and respect.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0183par0767	After the first election, we'll see where you roll.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0185par0768	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0186par0769	I know, I know.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0185par0770	No, he's not supposed to name names.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0186par0771	It's not over yet, but we're not done talking, so let me finish. I mean, you had your chance, but... Second word on his behalf, Mr. Gürsel Erol, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0187par0774	Yes, before me, I'll follow the political background, future of Eyup Bey. I wonder which party MP will take this stand. After the first election, after the AK PARTY loses its power, will it stay in the AK PARTY, or will it go to other parties? We'll follow.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0188par0775	We don't have a hired agent.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0187par0776	Any chance you can make the same accusations to those who resigned from the Welfare Party and founded the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0188par0777	They're not for rent.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0187par0778	Can you say the same about those who resigned from the Welfare Party and founded the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0189par0779	That's a different matter, different.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0190par0780	They went of their own free will.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0191par0781	We don't have a hired agent. It's the lawmakers like you who don't have the courage to speak from this stand of their own free will. (HPP rows, voices, applause) They're just lawmakers like you who do lead-indicated politics, who don't have your own personality. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] It's you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0785	Look, I'm a member of the Republican People's Party who obeys the rules of courtesy, but it's never acceptable for you to address the President of the Republican People's Party, whose party, Ataturk, founded by Ataturk, in contempt, to know your place, to know your place! You should know your place.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0191par0787	You should know your place. You're the real deal!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0193par0788	Mr. Erol, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0789	Congressmans, there are talks at both the Plan and Budget Commission on budget talks for about a month and a half. Of course, it is natural for the opposition parties outside the ruling party to raise their demands, their expectations, criticisms, and in these budget talks that have been held so far, it is, in fact, the ministers in the presidential system, because they only see the ministers here in the Plan and Budget Commission, because they see them here. Actually, there's something wrong with this system. So it's a tradition that the ministers who run the budget approved by this Assembly are not responsible for this Parliament under any circumstances or circumstances, in fact, incompatible with our democratic culture and our political life. The problem is from here. Now, I'd like to ask the AK PARTI MPs a question: do you think outside forces are interfering with this economic crisis we're experiencing?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0194par0791	I do.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0792	You do, don't you? Minister, do you read your congressman?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0195par0794	No Minister, no Minister!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0795	Not according to the Minister, according to the President, according to lawmakers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, again, I'd like to ask you a question: if outside forces in a country have chosen the change of power by creating an economic crisis as a method of changing power, can we say that the 2001 crisis is a conspiracy to bring the AK PARTI to power? (CHP clapping in rows) Can we say that? Go back to 2001.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0196par0798	Then there was no AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0799	All the parties in the House are stuck in the dam, including MHP, aren't they, Mr. Group Vice President? DYP, DSP, ANAP, all of it. What happened? The AK PARTY came to power on its own. Does that mean that the AK PARTY is coming to power, an intervention in the Turkish political history of foreign forces, and an opening for the AK PARTY? If that's how you describe the economic crisis today, that's how you should interpret your arrival. Well, that's one way to interpret it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0197par0801	The CHP isn't, but how do we interpret it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0198par0802	Guys, let's give it a rest, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0803	Look, if foreign forces interfered with our economy...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0198par0805	Mr. Hasan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0199par0806	Don't talk unless you understand!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0807	Mr. Turabi, will you sit down... I'm going to give you an example now: look, did external forces interfere with our economy in our history? Yes, he did. When did he? In 1974, they intervened in the CSP-CHP government's Operation Peacekeeping of Cyprus. (CHP clapping in rows) Why? Because then the late Bulent Ecevit Prime Minister, the late Vice Prime Minister of Necmettin Erbakan, challenged the United States of America and members of the European Union by taking down our Mehmetçik (Khakimak) mountains in Operation Peace of Cyprus.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0200par0811	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0812	Was there any absence that day? Yes, there was absence that day, why was there absence? Was there a line? Yeah, there was a line that day.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0201par0813	Was there a exchange or a dollar?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0814	So, why did you have it? Because of the embargo, there was no product. So, what's today? There's poverty today, poverty. There was no product that day, but everyone had money in their pockets. Today, there's goods everywhere, no money in anyone's pockets, no buying, buying, you're going to evaluate them in every dimension. (CHP cheers) Believe me, I say this with all my heart: separate poverty and poverty. In our time there was never poverty, there was nothing. Why did it happen?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0201par0816	There were tails, famine, hunger, unemployment, black market, everything in your day.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0202par0817	Mr. Erol, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0192par0818	Since we did not pledge allegiance to the imperialist countries, we have challenged them, but in the next term, from the 28th term, I will again come from the MP, the 2nd row, but we will see again which party you are from. My respects.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0203par0821	All sorts of absences were in your time. Don't let God show you those days.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0204par0822	Mr. Yasar, Mr. Kharpınar, friends, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0203par0823	Do you believe what he says?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0205par0824	Of course, of course I do. Look at you, what does that mean? Of course I do. Look in the mirror!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0206par0825	Do you believe that Minister? Do you believe that Minister?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0203par0826	Of course I do. Of course I do.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0206par0827	I don't know what to tell you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0203par0828	It's all a dream. Hospital lines, tube lines...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0207par0829	Look in the mirror, in the mirror. You look in the mirror...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0206par0830	Look at the minister, the minister!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0208par0831	Guys, excuse me. Mr. Gürer, if you'll excuse me. Look, I've invited the Deputy Director of the Group to the stand. [[Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer and İzmir MP Yasar Kharpınar]] Mr. Centipede, excuse me. Mr. Yasar, please...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0209par0834	Ataturk is all ours.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0210par0835	You came and sat because of us!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0209par0836	Ataturk said that we all...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0211par0837	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0212par0838	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Republican People's Party orator who has just spoken, have made it clear that I am taunting the National Movement Party. In every speech of our friend, we understand that he has a deep desire and excitement to pick on the National Movement Party, and there's something about us in every conversation, thanks to him. And we're always ready to take care of that excitement. Now, for once, the MHP is a political party of fifty-three years, a representative of a radical political movement, an idea is a movement. Let it go, last year, three months ago, five months ago, it still explains what you said, not three years ago, but fifty years ago, it still stands on its back like rocks. Know it, my dear brother.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0213par0840	Then I'll tell you...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0214par0841	Mr. Onur, no one interfered while you were talking.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0212par0842	Now, not because of what the National Movement Party said, but because of the fact that your words are still dry, you remember what our friend here was saying last year about the media arrangement. He said: "YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, they will all leave Turkey." You're making this law to ban the Internet, to bring censorship. I'm making a mold. They're not going to open a diplomatic mission here." Did he say it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0215par0843	He did.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0212par0844	He did. What happened? What happened? That's the garbage you were talking about a year ago. (MHP and AK PARTY) What part of the nationalist movement are you dealing with? (CHP rows) Mind your own business, dear brother. What you're dealing with is neither the Republic of Turkey nor the Nationalist Movement Party you're talking about with great lust. Their system isn't like that software or system that you set up for CHP that crashed overnight, crashed on election night, remember that. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0216par0847	My president calls me trash. He insults what I do.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0217par0848	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0216par0849	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0217par0850	So what you're saying is garbage. What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0216par0851	No, okay? Mr. President, what I do is...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0218par0852	Sir, let him explain the system he's set up, it's very important.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0216par0853	It's disinfecting.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0219par0854	Oh, Mr. Adil, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0216par0855	Please, what I'm saying is...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0219par0856	Let me just... first of all, the right to say...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0220par0857	Sir, Muharrem is the statement of Encel. The things I express.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0216par0858	Okay, I'll answer it, I'll answer it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0219par0859	Sir, Muharrem will make a statement, then, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0220par0860	I repeat, sir, it's not a crime to repeat.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0219par0861	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0221par0862	Can I answer that?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0219par0863	Mr. Adil, there's no such thing as a promise every time you raise your hand.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0221par0864	Mr. President, he's picking on me, for God's sake.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0222par0865	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0219par0866	Mr. Ozkoch, please step down from the bench... [[Applause from CHP rows]] So I'm going to promise the Deputy Director of the Group that the Congressman won't let him.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0223par0869	He picked on her.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0219par0870	So he didn't tease Mr. Ozkoch?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0223par0871	It was selling to him.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0224par0872	Friends, I have put a word of the State Gardener into my heart, my relationship with him and my point of view in this General Assembly. This traitor will not be President. He said Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (CHEERING) I took it, put it in my heart.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0225par0873	He didn't say the traitor of the country.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0224par0874	When the State Gardener tells me you've given up on this, I'll answer for the mp, but I won't answer for it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0226par0875	There's no expression of the traitor of the state, misdirection.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0224par0876	Two: My dear friends, when a person is on the stand, he really needs to realize what he's saying. Wasn't it your President General who told the farmer's mother to take her? Wasn't it your Mr. General President who beat and beat the coal miner who only wanted to defend his rights at Soma?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0227par0878	It's slander, slander.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0228par0879	Break his feet!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0229par0880	Don't twist it, don't twist it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0230par0881	I just want to seek my rights. Wasn't it your general president who scolded the person who said, "Shut up! I'll tell you, my President-in-Chief: Here at the budget meeting, Kemal Kilicdaroglu lay on the money of the martyrs. When he hit his hand, he was telling the truth 100 per cent. Did you do it? You did it, you collected the money of the fallen relatives, you didn't give it to them.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0231par0883	You're lying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0232par0884	You're lying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0233par0885	Be honest, be honest.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0234par0886	You're a political party that doesn't care about martyrs or citizens or people.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0235par0888	You're killing the martyrs! You're with the martyrs.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0236par0889	Mr. President, for the record, Mr. President is a traitor to the state.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0234par0890	I do.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0237par0891	It's all over the books.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0238par0892	Mr. President, I have a direct target, I have a mission; there's a saying aimed at this mission, and I have an obligation to explain it, so I'm asking you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0237par0893	Sir, I don't see that as teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0238par0894	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. President, you're confusing me, I'm not telling you to pick on me first, I'm telling you to pick on me second.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0237par0895	Mr. Adil, if you'll excuse me. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0239par0897	Mr. President, the Deputy Chairman of the CHP Group has just made a statement that the President of the National Movement Party did not say...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0240par0898	He did.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0239par0899	...he teased our president and our group, so I'd like a word.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0240par0900	Listen to YouTube!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0241par0901	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0239par0903	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, with the usual recitation...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0242par0904	Answer me, answer me!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0239par0905	...trying to cover up the misery you're in, you're really trying to contradict the truth with insults.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0242par0906	Did he say that or not? Did he or did he not say these words or did he not say them?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0243par0907	He didn't say.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0242par0908	How could he not?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0243par0909	He didn't say.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0242par0910	Go and see if you can get into the computer in your hand.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0244par0911	Those who can't bear the fact that our President is elected by the will of the nation are trying to cover their own misery by taunting them from side to side.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0242par0912	Explain to me if you've told me. Explain it to me, tell me if he told you or not, and everyone will hear it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0245par0913	Answer these.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0244par0914	You're speaking here as a sign that you don't embrace national will.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0242par0915	Let's hear it, everybody!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0244par0916	By entering the elections for 19 years, Mr. President has always served the nation in the democratic elections with the will of the nation to face the rope as the champion.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0242par0918	Then make your choice. Make the choice, then. Now make the choice, then let's see the champion.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0246par0919	Let's go, let's go! See the champ!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0247par0920	Answer me, answer me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0248par0921	You're trying to show that you don't really embrace national will. Shame on you! That's fascist understanding, that's jacoben understanding, that's what you're all about.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0249par0923	You talk about trustees, you talk about trustees.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0250par0924	AK PARTY, let's go, let's go!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0248par0925	Congressmans, Mr. President has served this nation with the authority of the nation for nineteen years.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0250par0926	Why are you running away from the election?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0251par0927	You don't want to answer questions.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0248par0928	Other than that...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0252par0931	Champion! Let's go to the election, champ.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0251par0932	Come on, champ.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0253par0933	Your time is up, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0254par0934	Can you add a minute? Everyone....
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0253par0935	Who did I add it to? To whom?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0254par0936	To the others...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0253par0937	No, honey, I'll give you two more minutes without picking on you, just two minutes without picking on you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0255par0938	No extensions, no extensions.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0256par0939	Champion! Let's go to the election, champ.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0257par0940	There's no answer. I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0256par0941	Champion! Let's go to the election, champ.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0258par0942	Mr. Group Presidents, you have two minutes to stay on the stand and one minute if you'd like. Yes, Mr. Dervisoglu, take the stand. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0259par0946	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. It's been talked about so many times in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and they cook and cook and bring up the time of the Grand Assembly in relation to the issues given the answer, and they steal the time of the Grand Assembly. I don't know where that friend went, spokesman for the Justice and Development Party? If you'll excuse me, folks, two minutes is already a short time. Friends talked, and we answered those questions over and over again. Now, doesn't the ruling party have anything left to say, which is constantly rewinding the film and arguing at the Turkish Grand National Assembly? First of all, I resent this attitude, this style. If they repeat it, we'll tell them what we've done, what we've told them, but I don't think we have that much time. Look, we're coming to the stand without a fuss, our Deputy Speaker only gives us two minutes. You keep this House busy for hours with your attitude. Actually, you might want to look at this and talk about it. When the presidential government system went into effect, the dollar was $4.53, and today it was up to 15 lira walls. You answer that on this stand. So you've got a lot of work to do, from the moment you activate this system, what is unemployment, what is it now, come talk about it on this bench? He's talking about how to solve the farmer's problems, how to solve the laborer's problems, how to fix the minimum wage, the budget that lost 40 per cent of it from the Commission to the Parliament, and do not occupy Turkey's Grand National Assembly with your political magazines. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0260par0952	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0261par0953	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0260par0954	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0261par0955	Just for the record, I'd like to clarify the testimony of Mr. Hati.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0260par0956	There's no teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0262par0957	I don't pick on anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0263par0958	There's no bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0264par0959	He picked on the dollar!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0265par0960	By comparing what happened to the dollar after the presidential government system...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0266par0961	Is this a tease, for God's sake?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0267par0962	There's no explanation, you know. Yeah, there's no such thing as a record.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0265par0963	It was the parliamentary system in which three-digit inflation, four-digit interest was found. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0267par0965	Yes, Mr. Group Vice President out. Mr. Nameful, one minute from your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0268par0968	Mr. President, I just referred to the privatisation reports on the National Party's website. But it turns out we have a point, and they're right about what they're saying to each other, and they're happy about it, and I don't want to talk about it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0269par0969	We're very impressed.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0268par0970	Both sewer pipes and Persil may be right about each other, but when we turn around, you don't know about social media law.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0269par0971	We're very impressed.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0268par0972	Even the president of the Digital Mechra Commission is complaining about ghost representatives today, and all spokesmen, including Mr. President, have failed to do so a year and a half ago, the opposition is right. He says we have to do it again.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0269par0973	Oh, for God's sake! That's trash talk.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0268par0974	And when it comes to my work, give me time, come, bring me an expert; we're even fixing the YSK, so let it be your cover somehow.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0269par0976	Get out of here! OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0270par0982	I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... the matter is accepted. MADDE 10- (1) The Treasury and Finance Ministry budget; a) 22-12.31-01-05. The grant, which is part of the 02 arrangement, is dated 13/1/2005, and has been handed over to the county's private administrations in accordance with Law 5286, to pay for their monthly and all other financial and social rights. b) 36-12. 31-01-07. As part of the 03 grant, the Support of the Villages' Infrastructure Project (KOYDES), the special governments and/or villages' services for the infrastructure needs of the villages, C) 21-12.31-01-07. The funding in the 03 setup is used as part of the Water Sewering and Infrastructure Project (SUPAP) by the State Bank Anonymous Corporation to carry out drinking water and wastewater projects. In the event of need under SDUAP, funds can be transferred to the relevant public administration budget or to the private budgetary management budget under the general budget. As part of this joke, the assistance of the Treasury to relevant governments is impregnable and cannot be guarded. (2) The procedure and the basis for payments according to the first ficra (a) are determined by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Treasury and Finance. (3) The funds included in the first joke (b) and (c) beneficiaries in the investment programme for 2022 years are determined by the President of the cities for Project CYDES; for SDUAP, the distribution, use, monitoring, and control of municipalities is decided by the President. The first word on the matter is for Mr. Huseyin Anris on behalf of the Good Party Group. Mr. Anres, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0271par0994	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the PTA Party Group on Article 10 of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2022. With all due respect to the General Assembly and our beloved nation watching us at the beginning of their screens. Dear friends, today is the 10th day of budget negotiations. We've been here for ten days watching presentations of interested people over the budgets of the presidency, the ministries and the organisations. So we've expressed our views on the budget, and we've continued to express them; we've said what's missing, and we keep saying what's missing. On the 17th, we will complete our budget negotiations with the best. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's take a look at our memories while we talk about the budget. I won't go back forty-fifty years like you did, but I'll remind you of fifty days ago. Fifty days ago, on October 26, 2021, we started discussing the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2022 and the Central Management Law of 2020, the Plan and Budget Commission. Dear friends, that day was $9.5, so 50 days ago, the dollar was $9.5, and today it's a ladder to $15. More than a third of this budget melted, gone, gone, my friends, as the budget was not approved. Now, with this budget that has been destroyed by a third before you have entered 2022, what will you invest, what problems will you be able to address, and what problems will you be able to cure? This budget is a budget of poverty, friends, this budget is a budget of absence. This budget has no solution to the problems of the EYT. There is no source in this budget that can fulfill the promise of 3,600 additional indicators; there is no job for the unemployed, there is no staff for the teacher who cannot be appointed in this budget. There is no employment for young people who have graduated from economics, businesses, finances, economies, international relations, economics and administrative sciences, which have exceeded 400,000. There's no hope for our unsupervised medics, unemployed engineers; this budget has no vision, my friends. When society has a lot of problems, this budget has no power to solve them, no capacity, and above all, it has no credibility. This budget is a budget that buys from the poor and gives to the rich, which is a budget for the citizens of poverty, famine and conviction, and abundance, luxury and luxury for power and its supporters. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear friends, you come up here with colored paintings, colourful graphics, describing your goals for 2022, we'll do it. Dear friends, you remember last year we talked about the 2021 budget here at this time again. You, on that day, a year ago, came out of this podium again, presented it with beautiful visuals, and in the 2021 budget, you said that 2021 dollars would be $7.67. 2021 isn't over yet, we've got 15 more days, and the dollar's 15 dollars today. So it's doubled your prediction. Now, everything's fine, everything's rosy. You keep talking like a rose. You make promises again. How can people believe you, what word should they trust? The best thing to say for you is that a man's ritual is to be obeyed. Dear friends, it's really hard to keep up with the transformation in your words. Just a couple of months ago, you were here preaching and preaching. Every day here, in the evening, on television, Turkey is flying, the economy is rising. You said, "We are now fighting economic survival." Friends, friends of the AK PARTY, I'm telling you, you, our beloved nation, we have failed, we have failed. You see, as we talk, the dollars go up, the more we talk, the more we talk, the more the olive oil gets expensive, the more we talk, the more the price of coal burns, the more we talk, the more we don't talk, the more quiet we stop, the more we bring the ballot box. We've talked a lot, so now it's your turn to talk. You're going to continue to say all your incompetence, all your faults, all your wrongs, all your faults, and all your faults to the opposition. Gentlemen, you've been running this country for 20 years, we're not running it, you're making decisions in this country. What are you telling who? You're in charge. The plague of today's misery, of human suffering, is on you. This plague is heavy, my friends. And when he mounteth upon his back, his shirt shall be torn off from his shoulders, and I will make an affluence, and there shall be no harm in me, neither shall I bear it. I want you to know that and remember that. Dear friends, I'd also like to talk a little bit about the matter of the outside forces that have been spoken so much lately. Every time you're desperate, you create an enemy, you work with perceptions to pay the bill to others. You've also had an expression of external power lately: external power down, external power up. You bring it up in the economy, almost everything, and you connect it to the outside forces. Instead of learning from the calamity that has befallen us and changing your policies, where did we go wrong? How do we correct this wrong? You blame it on the outside. So, friend, who are these outside powers? Where are they? Where do they come from? Where are they going? What kind of external power is this that goes into the kitchen, finds our olive oil there, doubles the price of olive oil, and how is that external power that takes 200 dollars of flour out of July to 350 euros in a December? How is this external power that goes to the gas pump; the mazota is haunting the tube, the electricity? I'm asking you from here: you've put a $4 price on the tea, but our teamaker can barely get his tea out of his hand at $2.40, $2.50. I'd like to ask you, which of the outside forces has been victimised by our tea maker, which of the outside forces has entered our tea. Dear friends, as the Good Party, we address the shortcomings we see with a constructive and responsible view of opposition; we bring the nation's agenda to the Assembly with questions, with research proposals. So, what do you guys do? You reject all our motions, proposals, in a collective sense. Look, in the Plan and Budget Commission, as a good party in budget talks, we've made 19 motions. 17 of the motions we made were to increase the grants, but you refused them all. Look, I'll give you an example: 414,000 students who study at higher education in Turkey are given $650 a month, which is $20 a day. We said in the Commission: Let's put $8 billion in additional funding in the Ministry of Youth and Sports budget, so that we can increase our number of scholarships and scholarships, and give our 1 million students a thousand lira a month. And what did you say? You rejected our motion. Dear friends, in Turkey, we all know the lack of teachers in pre-school, elementary schools, secondary schools. We all know the victimization of our unregistered teachers. In the commission, we said, "Come on, let's increase the budget of the Ministry of Education, put $6 billion 250 million in additional funding, raise 50,000 additional teachers; we'll compensate for the loss of our non-assigned teachers as well as the lack of teachers." (What did you say?) What did you say? You rejected our offer again.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0272par1005	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0271par1006	Dear friends, friends of the AK PARTY, I speak to you. Most are gone, few are left, the chest will be in front of the people and you will go. Don't worry. We're here. We'll come, God willing, and we'll solve all the problems. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0272par1009	On behalf of the nationalist movement group, Mr. Sadir won't stop. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0273par1012	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 10 of the 2022 Central Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, according to our Constitution, local administrations are public legal individuals whose foundations are defined by the law to meet the common needs of the municipality and the village, and whose decision-making bodies are again elected by voters in the law. The most important function of local governments is the fulfillment of local-quality public services. We, the National Movement Party, view local governments as the most important practitioners of our national unity and integrity. From here, we can easily say that love of the land is the greatest force of service to the nation, and one of the grounds where this love is best shown is no doubt our local governments and municipalities. The National Movement Party considers local administrations, national development principles, aims and policies to be the primary shareholders of local practitioners and the spread of their country's sath. For us, local administrations and municipalities in particular are the units in the most remote corner that are in contact with citizens, aware of their needs and problems, making it possible to improve the quality of citizens' satisfaction and quality of life. The municipalities are the loyal institutions that serve our citizens from cradle to grave, who serve them on the good day and on the bad day of our citizens. But given some recent events, I think it would be helpful to express what the municipalities are not. Mr. President, it is not the farm of those who have no conscience, who have promised honor in the election, and who have lost tens of thousands of our fellow martyrs and 70 per cent disabled brothers. City halls are not exactly places where people who build themselves a world of popularity, even though they don't nail nails, can be a social media municipality. The municipalities don't share the pie-sharing spaces for this party by calling it this much quota. The municipalities are never the areas where the symbols of terrorist organizations can be painted for treason enough to run through children's parks. The municipalities are not places where the names of people who have meant our existence in history will be kept alive. The municipalities are not exactly demonstration centers that are attacked by the so-called art of our people's national and spiritual values. The municipalities are not the playgrounds of those who dream of separate money and flags, who seek autonomy. The municipalities are also not the centre of treason where separatist sympathizers, traitors who belong to terrorist organizations, are put into the ranks. The municipalities are not terrorist homes where terrorist organisations are supported and funded by the government's unity, the nation's integrity. Don't let anyone have any illusions over the municipalities they've acquired, not that there's been any scandals, not that they've been seen, not that they've been known. Our people see what is with them, and they know who is with them, and when the time comes, they will be questioned. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to explain now what the municipality is, in the statements of our president, Mr. State Bahçeli, that it means honoring the rights, serving the people, honoring the truth. City hall is a place of wisdom, morality and justice, a place of rights, a place of protection, a place of trust. The city is the first face of direct contact with our people, the first wheel of our democracy. City hall means 24 hours of open door, generosity that doesn't turn down the hand. In our view, municipalism is an area of duty based on human beings, which must be observed by national and spiritual measures. Therefore, the mayor's office is a sacred trust to us, and it is a duty of our faith to keep the trust, to keep the stain. Another name for the mayor is the city, so the mayor is the city's sure person. The mayors must mobilise all the resources and resources they have in order to raise the living standards of their citizens, to increase their prosperity around our national and spiritual values. In that sense, I'm proud to say that the National Movement Party municipalities have sincerely and continue to fight for morality and democracy in order to ensure that they don't give away the rights of an unfinished orphan. We see local governments as the first area in which our party's opinions, proposals and policies are implemented. With that understanding, as the National Movement Party, we gathered our views on local governments in what we call "Producing Urbanism" and presented them to the public. There is a whole range of answers to the social, economic and cultural needs of our citizens in the productive municipal community, which is based on governance and management together. Manufactured municipalism is a model of municipalism that co-ordinates financial, social and physical planning, for the purpose of efficient and efficient use of all activities and resources. Turkey and the Turkish nation have ancient values at the centre of productive municipalism. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are responsible for setting priorities, using the resources available within budget discipline to deliver services to citizens in the most rational and efficient way possible. The growing global economic recession of the pandemic period has left our municipalities in a difficult position, as it has had a negative impact on many sectors and areas. While additional support has been provided to municipalities due to increased expenditures and workloads, perhaps our municipalities have been the most occupied since our heroic medics, and we must therefore stand by our municipalities. Another problem in municipalities is unjust and unlawful dismissal. There have been numerous layoffs in the election municipalities, which have not been justified for any reason, with a purely arbitrary and ideological purpose. The rights of contract workers who are unfairly and arbitraryly removed from their hands should be restored and should be prevented from changing the work peace of the participatory employment system in municipalities to a state that could have a negative effect on service efficiency. Another thing we want to focus on is the rights of the mayor and members of parliament. As you all know, the most important decision-making body in the activities conducted by municipalities is city councils. We believe that the work of the mayor and the city council members and the rights to their autonomy are not proportional. We think it would be helpful to review the financial and social rights of the mayor and members of parliament, both who work in and within the municipality and who assume both legal and political responsibility. In the same way, we believe that members of the city's general assembly must improve their rights to equity. Finally, I'd like to bring a few things to the attention of our Veteran Assembly regarding our chiefs. The first link of our democracy chain, the first face of local governments in terms of public service, the first bridge between the state and the nation, has become an inevitable necessity for the improvement of the rights of our valued leaders, who are concerned about their neighborhood, their village's problems, and the allocation of funds to our assets. In addition, the process of running for mayor within a period of time -- the decision of the chief nomination and drafting ballots for our chiefs -- will also eliminate some issues during the election. As I complete my words with these thoughts and feelings, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, watching over us on their screens. I pray to God that our budget is good for our country and for our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit02spe0274par1025	Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0274par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 3rd Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. We stayed to meet their demands on behalf of the groups. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr Murat Sarısaç. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0275par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute all our peoples. Dear President and General Assembly, a week ago, we spoke of Mehmet Emin Özkan....and sick prisoners. There are approximately 1,605 prisoners, and they are left to die by this power. Again, yesterday and today, in Shakran and Diyarbakır Prisons, Abdulrezzak Shuyur and Halil Güneş have been in prison since 1993, although they have been diagnosed with lung and bone cancer for many years, unfortunately we have lost both prisoners because of these diseases. Now, every time the AKP talks about the 90's process, we've eliminated the unsolved murders. But the 90's never finished, especially not for us. Maybe between 2013 and 2015, this was just a short break. Although it was different in the 90s, in the 90s, by throwing the perpetrators into the acid wells, the unknowns were committed, and today they have changed tactics, changed methods, and these prisoners have been left to die in the same manner as those who have been arrested since then, along with those who were murdered in the 90s. So this is the continuation of that massacre, the unsolveds in the 90s. The only thing I'm going to say here is that it's not just a call to power or opposition anymore, it's just that we're facing the comrades we lost to this fascism, and I'm apologizing to our people and to them a thousand times because we can't keep them alive. Mr. President, I'm afraid we've spent a budget re-existing with economic crises, stale hammock rhetoric, and a situation in which we've become socially poor, a war budget. Yes, we call this budget the war budget, because it's not just about this year, it's a war budget that's being built as a continuation of decades of structural problems, and it's being done and the public has no budget. This is a budget that would never include a small minority, a minority of allies, a society that would never include these people. Now, we're talking about a war budget. We're talking about a war all the time. I think it's time to define this war, because historically, when we look at the origins of wars, almost all of them are economic-rooted wars. Before, wars were being fought in order to take the spoils, establish sovereignty, or protect their sovereignty. The nation was built before the state, in the sense of occupying a place or completely taking over it, but with the nation's state, of course, the nature of war has changed. At this time, it became an instrument of capital and bourgeois sovereignty. Later, in the construction process of the nation's state, particularly in the economic crisis or in the problems of not managing it, it was again resorted to the ways of war to eliminate the dissatisfactions that have arisen, to suppress the public, to suppress the dissatisfactions through pressure. Now, when you ask any normal, sane person, of course he won't accept war, he'll prefer peace. This perception has also been altered in societies, especially in modern governments. So under normal circumstances, you have the ability to accept a war that you can't allow to be accepted into any person or society. For example, if security and intelligence are in the government's monopoly, and this can be made very clear to the press, it's much more comfortable for you to accept a war that this community has never accepted, seen badly, considered harmful. How? For example, your Undersecretary of MIT gets out, fires 3-5 missiles from Syria, and the pool media can easily convince the entire community that war is useful when it makes it look like the whole world is your enemy and attacking you. Again, there are other aspects of justice war. No matter how powerful, advantageous, you are in a position that you think is your enemy, the harm of this war is not only on your enemy's side, but you are suffering great losses. Wars have many harms both human and material. For example, in times of war, you face huge economic sanctions; you suffer huge losses in terms of law, justice and democracy. Likewise, for example, in times of war, the budgets for which science, art, education should be divided into the ministries of war, and you can't express yourself in any way because there are enemies who need to be fought against you, and if you object to that, then you're the enemy. So the war has been a structural problem in this country for centuries, and it seems to continue. Congressmans, we can't consider the multiple crises this country has had for nearly a century as a crisis of inability to manage. Just as Adorno said, it is a matter of not being able to live the wrong life. You know, a hundred years ago, the strict nation, the monogamous state concept, did not form according to the hundreds of identities that live here in our geography, multiple identities and multiple beliefs. We're still suffering from those problems today, which is why there's always a war. The war, denial, assimilation policies have led many people and faith to melt away. Kurds, an autocton people, have been denied for centuries. In every sense, the Kurds paid the price and continue to pay. Because the lack of resolution of the Kurdish problem is the reason that capital has been withdrawn side by side, mob and politicians have held hands, poverty and unemployment increase, the country's surrender to international capital order, law, justice, and democracy have been ignored. Because the authorities can only cover up corruption with Kurdish hostility. So what we're going to understand from here is that there's been a policy of denial and assimilation against Kurds for centuries, but this denial and assimilation policy has not only harmed Kurds, it has damaged all the peoples living in Turkey in every sense. In the 90s, for example, the governor of the State of Emergency came out in the 90s and said: "You have to look at the unsolved murders here as a national match. There have been 17,000 unsolved murders, but these unsolved murders have not been limited to the Kurds alone, so there are values such as Ahmet Taner's Barracks, Uğur Mumcu, and we've lost our values. Again, basically, we're saying that it's lost in terms of democracy and justice -- Kurdish hostility, the war against Kurds. The results of June 7th... now, all opposition, everyone in Turkey thinks this government is going to lose, and they're melting every day, I agree. But the AKP also did something like this: it lost in June 7th. How did he regain power? By waging war on Kurds, he has regained his power; it is unclear that he will not do the same today. Again, in the same way, everyone here, including the opposition, is critical of all ministers, and when Süleyman Soylu comes out here, he says, "Süleman Soylu is also antidemocratic, and so is the law." But there is an antidemocratic, but there is one. There's a place where Suleyman can go out and act in a way that's not legal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0276par0018	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0275par0019	When Solomon Noble came out here -- even the opposition -- but he said: "Yes, it is illegal; but it is against terrorism." No, he's not fighting terrorism. Süleyman Soylu casts Kurdish villagers out of helicopters, oppresses all Kurds with security forces, plots against MPs. And here, in front of 600 of you, the result of your "amama" was almost to arrest all of us in this House, including the CHP and the PD MPs. Therefore, the solution to the Kurdish problem will not only breathe to Kurds but also to Turkey, and there is only one solution: the perspective of the Kurdish problem is from Mr Abdullah Ocalan's point of view. Once the lockdown on Mr. Abdullah Ocalan is lifted, we will know that the centuries-old mind has disappeared and that Turkey is really fighting for Turkey. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0276par0022	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Seyit Grandson. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0277par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. During budget talks, a lot of slander has been made from this bench to our municipalities, and the ruling leaders, who can't defend their own budgets, have come up here and tried to defame our municipalities. Let's say that no responsible minister has the right to fabricate a lie. (CHP) No one should try to take advantage of our elected mayors by relying on their position. We've earned no one's rights, and we don't give away the rights of our municipalities and the law. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, let's talk about the facts against slander. I'll tell you one by one what the power has done, what our municipalities are doing, by addressing all of your consciences. Let's remember, when the president of the Justice and Development Party didn't find what he hoped for in the local elections, he said these are lame ducks for our mayors. With that explanation, he lit up the signal flare of illegality. He did not content himself with this, but he disregarded the will of the nation, saying, "Do we have a 13 - 14,000 vote in Istanbul?" Then what happened? Those who didn't like 13,000 votes had to go to a group meeting and congratulate Ekrem Imamoglu twice in a row. In May 2019, the Ministry of Commerce wrote a paper, giving the parliaments the authority to appoint municipal companies, who have been mayors for years, but you were left with this initiative. February 2020, you changed the structure of the urban municipalities' transport coordination centers, and you gave the majority of the municipalities to the government. Now, that's mostly 11 times you've blocked our Istanbul Metropolitan City's request for a new taxi. Checks conducted at the Police Department have been issued to 14875 pirate taxis. It's obvious how much Istanbul needs a taxi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In March 2020, the outbreak of Covid-19 spread throughout the country, our municipalities launched relief campaigns, our people donated $15m to these accounts. So, what did you do? You confiscated donations so that the CHP's municipalities wouldn't help. Let's not do that either, it's called unconscionable. You didn't even say that. (CHP applause) You put up a wall in front of us, but we've broken down that wall, we've started new campaigns for solidarity. I'm proud to say that we've only raised $120 million in support in these campaigns so far, paid the bills of the needy, gave our children education support. In the pandemic process, you couldn't disband five masks, but we brought 5 million homes with us. (CHP clapping in rows) Here, while we're doing this, you're a government that's lost a conscience enough to seize a citizen's donation. And that was not enough, because by the president's decision, you also took away the authority of the municipalities to launch a campaign after the disasters. Here you are, a power that covets even a bowl of soup to go to a citizen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Moving on. You've raised tax revenues in response to municipal debt by 50 per cent. In this parliament, you have passed on the Turkish Environment Agency, the Tourism Incentivisation Act and many bags of legislation to you the powers and revenues of our municipalities. Here you are, a power that looks for municipal revenues to fill the empty state vault. It's not over yet, the Ministry of Environment is providing transportation assistance and cash to municipalities. We asked the minister twice with a motion to question him, and we asked him, "How much help did you give to which municipalities?" Mr. Secretary didn't answer our questions the other day, trying to get up here and discredit our municipalities, but we found out. The ministry has given 2.628 vehicles to municipalities in the last three years, I stress, 97 percent of these vehicles have been sent to the Cumhur Alliance municipalities...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0278par0036	Prohibited, forbidden!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0277par0037	...but other municipalities that run more than half the population of the country have been given only 3 per cent of the aid, even 5 vehicles as if they needed it. Mr. Erdoğan was saying that the religion of the state is justice. This is your justice. The same Ministry has also aided municipalities with $432m in cash, and our municipalities certainly haven't. We've asked the Minister many times, and we're asking him again, where did he go for 432 million liras? Now, let me explain this injustice in the verses of Necip Fazil, which Erdogan called my superior officer: 10 men, who wait for the ten stamps of Allah / one person, a stamp for nine, nine people, would not make my taxi a wolf. (Applause from CHP desks) Now, the minister of this mission attacks our municipalities who have come out once a year, who can't defend the budget, who can't defend the city of Izmir Metropolitan. Minister, never forget that your reputation is not enough to discredit us; you will not be accepted by emulating Solomon Nobleman and slandering municipalities and MPs. It is not your place or your right to defame the municipalities that have transformed 6,000 dwellings without blind support from the state. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And now, to the Turkish City Council. More than 50 per cent of the Union's budget is cut from our municipalities, but almost all of its union resources are only given to the Cumhur Alliance municipalities. Friends, I'd like to ask: What conscience would accept such injustice? For us, the association of municipalities of Turkey no longer exists. We've filed a complaint against the Union administration, and we're going to make every effort to get out of this unit. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, those who commit these injustices today will not be saved tomorrow by asking for forgiveness. I address the ruling lawmakers: If you have any conscience, do not share in these injustices. Before the local elections, there was a lot of slander. What did they say? They said, "If the help comes, the help will be cut off." I'm proud to say that in the five major cities that we've taken over in the election, we've been given the benefit of the doubt to triple the benefits. (CHEERING) What did they say? They said the staff can't pay their salary if theCHP comes. In our municipalities, more than your minimum wage is well paid. (CHEERING) What did they say? They said the terrorists would hand out the bills if they came. Remember, these people have not seen terrorists handing out bills, but they have witnessed ministers giving pictures of themselves along the way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] After the election, these slanders have been filed at least a little bit, but one of them still hasn't dropped his slanders, his accusations, unfortunately. The Interior Minister, whose only skill was to tell the lie like it was true, recently slandered from here: "There are 557 people associated with terrorism in Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality." The pool media dropped that number to 6 ▪ a day later. It's been a week, and there's been no action on 557 or 6 people. We ask you, we ask you now, Mr. Minister Süleyman Noble, you can't be accepted by lying and slandering, but that's how you'll be humiliated. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We've had forest fires, all our municipalities have started mobilization, we've sent over 300 vehicles, over a thousand personnel to the area, we've delivered dozens of truck supplies to citizens, but Erdoğan has come out and blamed us again, saying, "Where are your troops, your fire departments?" We told you then, and now we're telling you: while you were throwing tea over the bus, our municipalities were on fire. Our president sent a thank-you letter to the mayors of all parties who supported the fight, but you slandered the sweat of our municipal staff working night and day. Our president told you to set up a black winter fund. You didn't listen, but we built this fund in our municipalities, and in the last month alone, we've helped more than $160 million for more than a million families. It's been a privilege to give you a raise, to support you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Our municipalities are giving cheap bread to citizens, and while we're giving cheap bread, it's been a privilege for you to make citizens line up there. You're a thank-you to a minister who's been investigating the disinfectant our Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality bought for $3 and selling disinfectant at $175 to his own Ministry. (Applause from CHP rows) You are a government that has been silent about the $500,000 bribe at Serik City Hall, who has been investigating our Finnish City Hall, which has made a sign written for 7,000 liras. You're a government that transfers 155 fire vehicles to your own municipalities for free. You haven't made a sound of 15 million lira corruption in your Samsun Metropolitan Municipality, but you've relieved our mayor of corruption in Yalova, two years later, you haven't proven any charges, but you're not returning them.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0279par0050	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0277par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, again, we're getting reports of conspiracy against our municipalities. From here, I speak to the Home Secretary who made these threats: The sultan of the oppressors is yours; do what you can. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Canal Istanbul issue... the cost is $15 billion, $210 billion; there's some conscience in a person, dear friends, but people will say, "Stop!" Your political life won't be enough to make that betrayal. Right now, the contracts of the TOKI are being cancelled one by one, and there are no bids to bid on the tenders. Remember this: You can't, you can't, and you never will! Finally, when you're doing so much injustice to our municipalities, you forget that millions of people from our municipalities will not give you their due. In these difficult days, our municipalities will be written in history with support for the citizens, but you will be remembered for selling Ankara's parcels and for betraying Istanbul. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0280par0058	Promise demands have been met on behalf of the groups. Now, the first word on his behalf is Mr. Halil Etamamez. Here you go, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0281par0062	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 10th amendment of the budget law proposal. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. In the beginning of my words, I confess to the mercy of Maslah Maslana, who enshrined our tradition of wisdom, wisdom, love, and mercy, for the anniversary of the 748th vuslat. Dear lawmakers, our budget law proposal is the government's 20th and the presidential government's 4th budget. Our budget is focused on investment, production, employment, exports and growth at a time when global viruses and financial crises shake up the world, when economies are in trouble. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we will increase our achievements in all areas, including education, health, justice and security, from energy to agriculture. Dear lawmakers, as AK PARTY governments, we've always put the people's will above everything, we've done silent revolutions, we haven't passed through the coup d'états and guardians' mentality, we've been thinking about the future of 84 million citizens. In the nineteen years, we opened the 27,500 kilometers of divided roads, raised the number of airports from 26 to 56, and built 17 city hospitals, and presented them to our nation's service. We have fulfilled the need to become a social state by taking all our citizens into the scope of social security. We raised our number of universities to 207, our capacity for higher education to 729, and our number of sports facilities increased to 4,000, and we offered it to our young people. By bringing 5.5 billion saplings into the soil, we breathed into the future and into the world. In 19 years, we supported our farmers with $396 billion. We have launched a total of 8,800 facilities, including 613 dams, 1,475 irrigation facilities, and we are implementing facilities that presuppose savings in irrigation. We've tripled the country's economy, raised exports six times, raised defence projects' budgets from $5.5 billion to over 75 billion. We've done domestic and national projects like ANKA, Flagtar, Raider, SKY, ATAK, HURK, MILGEM, ALTAY Tank. We've increased the share of renewable energy in electricity production by 60 percent. We put the Green Development Revolution at the center of all our work. We play a leading and effective role in solving the climate crisis. THE village and the village were given sufficient and healthy drinking water. We've raised the standard of village roads. IN 2005-2021, we carried out nearly 17 billion-dollar work. The SDUAP Project and I supported the water, sewers and infrastructure projects of our municipalities. We've discovered 540 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserves, and in 2023, we're going to present them to the use of our nation. We defend our blue homeland with domestic and national systems. In the eastern Mediterranean, Libya, the Aegean, we have protected our rights to the fullest, and we will continue to protect them. Dear lawmakers have begun to make our dreams come true with our young brothers and sisters. We organize TEKNOFESTs with projects of our sons who care about their country, and support the national technology move. Dear lawmakers, we rule this paradise country with a sense of right, truth, right, development. We never accept the unsavory language used against teachers, judges, bureaucrats and civil servants when we're building, building, building our country, building the future while we're doing work and service politics with the strong will of the Cumhur Alliance. Rather than adapting to the transformation in Turkey, we do not find it true that various trade groups of those who prefer to go back to the way they used to. Our nation will never allow the understanding of ignoring what is done, preventing projects, concealing the truth, destroying what exists. We will continue to respond with our projects to those who conceal the truth with lies.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0282par0069	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0281par0070	We refer our Aybuke teacher, our Nejmuddin teacher, and many of our teachers and innocent citizens to our sainted nation of terror walkers, terrorist lovers while we fight against a rogue terrorist organization that shows that it is an enemy of education, knowledge and humanity by martyring our innocent citizens. Dear MPs, we will continue to work day and night on the way to the construction of the great and powerful Turkey. I hereby ask that our budget bring blessings to our nation, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0282par0073	The second word on his behalf, dear Saint Light. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0283par0076	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I want to talk about the problems of Şanlıurfa. When you say "Chasliurfa," you think of agriculture, wheat comes, corn comes, cotton comes, but today, when you say "Chasliurfa," you get DEDAS, unemployment comes, substance abuse comes. Because in your twenty years of power, you chose to finish the farmer, rather than finish the GAP, because you gave up the GAPP, leaving 4 million people to be left with unemployment, because you threw our young people out of work in front of the drug lords. Instead of calling it your wrong agricultural policies, I'm saying that you've deliberately and willingly finished the farmer. Today, persecution of the farmer in the southeast can only be part of a scenario. Almost every day I see the tools of the grandfather who went to cut off electricity with the TOMAs in Şanlıurfa. If we ask you, you're a farmer-friendly power, but it's really not; your goal is to oppress the farmer, to finish agriculture. You removed nearly a thousand transformers from the farmer's own pocket for irrigation in Urbana, leaving 4 million hectares of land to thirst. It's not just a transformer that you've taken out with DEDAŞ, with TOMA. You've taken out the provisions of our farm children, you've stripped Turkey's future. You couldn't even stand up to the person you gave $750 million to from the Agriculture Bank, but you put the power of the state in front of the farmer, you gave the farmer who fed Turkey cancer. I can't find a baker in Urbana. He shouts, the farmer moans under the tyranny of DEDAŞ, the industrialist can't trade anymore, but your representative says it's immoral to go and pay him the Turkish lira the state has given him. I have to ask, did you give this loan to the rejected farmer, the industrialist, the tradesman, or to a bunch of people you protect and protect? You created a system where a citizen can't even get a public service, let alone a loan. A mother in my hometown of Şanlıurfa said: "I am sending my children to school hungry. Are you going to agree with this sentence for a moment, or are they not hungry if they are eating bread?" See, again, a father in Urbana said: "Valim, I am the father of six children. For God's sake, save my hometown from the drug trouble of Şanliurfa. Our young people can't buy tobacco for $20, but they can get drugs for $10. I'll ask you now: If we had finished the GAP, if we had employed our young people, would it have fallen into the gutter? From here, I call to power: From this stand, you have been spoken many times upon the southeast, and he has entered into one ear, and he has come out of the other, but listen carefully to my words: Believe it, and he will bury you in the ark after this hour. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I wish you well on your way out of power in the first election. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0284par0086	There is no question-answer on Article 10. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 11- (1) The Defense Industry Support Fund, established by Law 7/11/1938 and established under the strategic target plan by the Turkish Armed Forces, provided that the funds and other similar and transplantable resources are provided by the Defence Industry Executive Committee, as well as the funds set up for this purpose, along with the necessary modern weapons, tools and equipment, and investments in NATO infrastructure. (2) National Defence Ministry, Security Management Systems (KGYS) projects and the sums for the purchases due to the first joke provisions provided to the Security Directorate; from the budget allocations to the Security Directorate, armored vehicles, aircraft and helicopters (IHA), flight simulator, Electronic Harp (HEWS) and City Security Management Systems (KGYS) projects; from the budgets assigned to the Security Directorate; from the budgets assigned to the General Directorate; from the budget to these budgets, to the General Manager's budget, from the budgets budgets, from the budget to the General Directorate of Health, to the Ministry of Security and from the Ministry of Security Management (KGYS) to the Ministry for Information and security; from the Ministry of Security and from the Ministry for Security; from the Ministry of Justice and from the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, from the Ministry of Justice and from the Security, to the Ministry of Justice and from the Security, to the Ministry of Justice and from the Security, to the Ministry of Turkey, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security and from the Security and from the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security and from the Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Security, to the Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Security, to the Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Security, to the Security, to the Security, to the Ministry of Security, to the Security, to the Security, to the Commission, to the Security, to the Commission, to the Ministry of Security, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to pay, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to the Commission, to (3) The amount from the Defence Industry Support Fund to the Treasury comes to the general budget, while the President is authorized to register funds for the relevant arrangements of the National Ministry of Defence budget and to transfer funds for the past years. In accordance with budget laws, the years concerned are placed into the central accounting unit of the general budgetary administration of the Defence Industry Support Fund, and the appropriate budgetary administration (B) is registered into the accounting department's account bookkeeping unit. In general budgetary administrations, he is the president of the budgetary budget, and in private budgetary administrations, he is the head of the private budgetary administration. A grant record in administrations outside the National Ministry of Defence, Gen. General Command and Coast Guard Command is made up of the investment programme of the year. Yes, the first word on the matter is for Mr. Ahmet Kamil Erozan, on behalf of the Good Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Erozan.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0285par0097	Mr. President, with your permission, after I mention some elements of the material that was just read, as I have already stated, I will proceed to the third act of foreign policy. As we were talking about what could be bought a little while ago, we were talking about helicopters and planes, and of course that means especially in terms of forest fires... I was curious -- because last year there was the same substance -- because I looked at what they wanted last year; there were helicopters, there were no planes. Oh, now, so it's dawned on us. How did it come to this? After all these woods burned down, it dawned. Oh, now, isn't that a shame? Why didn't you buy these planes last year? Meanwhile, I'm pleased to learn that the situation with the Turkish Air Agency has finally ended today. You know, the guy's been trying to quit for three months, and he finally got accepted today. He's happy, he's happy, it's different for you. And the other thing that's sad is that there's news on the market that the plane will be bought as if the planes were to be picked up at the address, and even the rescue of a foreign company was launched. So just as you've never done any work transparently, the question of how transparent these planes will be taken in the coming period remains a big question mark. Everyone knows how insecure and unreliable the statistics in Turkey are. I've told a story of Kozyrev in the past, when the Soviet Union asked the late Süleyman Demirel what was our strongest field, while Solomon Demirel turned the question in his head, Kozyrev said: "Our strongest area was the statistics." We were so strong that at first we deceived our own people, then we deceived ourselves, and then we deceived the West in the success story of a Soviet economy. Unfortunately, with your power, you have left this country not only in statistics, but in democracy, in rights, in law, in freedom of the press, in the Soviet Union. (PEOPLE CHATTERING) The Soviet Union is disbanded, so who's left? Russian. And you started competing with him, and you photographed him, too. In what photofiche, I'll tell you this: you know, the European Union has been talking about execution houses from time to time -- in the matter that they were just mentioned -- the Council of Europe, from time to time, publish statistics on rights to countries, the legal order. According to a statistic published in 2020, 357 prisoners fall to 100,000 people in Turkey. In the 1st row of Turkey, I say photofinish, 356 in Russia, there's one person in between, you've done it again. Why am I saying this? I gave an example when the Justice Department budget was being discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, and I told him about the situation in a prison, not in bunk beds, that people were lying on the floor with blankets, but that's not the point, you're not making an effort to prevent crime. There's another process called preventing a person from committing a crime, which you can't do, especially in crimes against women. You can't keep that man away from her, no matter who the culprit is, no matter what happens to her. Of course, together we face a risk that you continue to build prisons, execution houses, and you build them so fast that we find it hard to understand where you got it from. Oh, well, then we're wondering whether you're starting to build a prison here with a prisoner guarantee, like any other bridge or whatever. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Again, in this, in the matter, there's talk of drones, drones, SIHAs. We, the Good Party, welcome the success of our defense industry in the drone and the CIA industry, but what we're selling is tomatoes, not potatoes. Come on, the drone is a defense, but the drone is not a defense weapon. I'm going to give you an example: Today, we're going to America and we're going to get an F-16. We're going to get an F-35, right? Is it possible to go to America and pick up any weapons from his company and bring them here? It's not. He has a permit process. Now, there is no such permit process in Turkey. Mr. President, another son-in-law works as a marketing director of another groom's company, says, "Take it.," he says, "Sell it." What is it? Sold to Ukraine. Where's Ukraine? It's up north. Who? The country is in an internal conflict, head-on with the Russian. We sold it to the drone and sold it to the SIHA. What did the Russian say? So the last time he made a phone call to Mr. President Putin, you know, they made a statement behind him, writing his name, Bayraktar. I'll translate that sentence for you: I'll fuck your Flagstars, you're hitting us from behind. Did we sell you the S-400 for your black eye? If something happens to a Russian, you're burned, he said. This is for sale. This is not over; you seek to mend your relations with Egypt, and sell it to Ethiopia. The Egyptians immediately hit the brakes, stuck to the normalization process. It's not over, you're trying to sell it to Somalia. I wonder if it's that easy. It's not just a product of military defence industry, isn't it supposed to be assessed under this roof, what political, military consequences it will have? The same goes for purchases. When you took the S-400s, you were told to take them. It was taken, so this building had no idea. And you probably know better than I do where we end up, what red lines we're facing, not what red walls we're facing. This military defense industry is not something that can only be left to soldiers. So it's political authority... and I'm not just talking political authority, but it's a political place; at least these purchases should be brought to the relevant commission and given information. We're having another problem in our defense industry. We're talking about poverty, absence, the defense industry, unfortunately, is facing a state of brain poverty or risk. So it's the minds, the brains that have just produced high-end additive products, unfortunately, that are searching for economic reasons to move to another horizon from this country. And when we look at our foreign policy, unfortunately, there is a direct link between foreign policy and economic power. So if a country has $25,000, its income per person's foreign policy is another weight. Today, unfortunately, we're not going for 8,000, we're going for $7,500 fast. It is impossible to say that such a country is strong in foreign policy. The other day, when the Foreign Minister was here, you raised wages for HTŞ and its organization. No, he didn't say that to me. Of course, I'm a decent person, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is lying. I can't say that, but I say that the Foreign Minister doesn't have my information. Now, it's not over, our exports are increasing as Turkey. You say, you're doing something else now; you're exporting economic crises to Syria. That pay raise is his reason, but it didn't end there either, and there are bread lines in the geography that Turkey controls today, just like there are bread lines here in Turkey. Turkish lira lost value even in the Syrian lira, and it wasn't enough there; people regret that they were there to use Turkish lira. As time is limited, I'm afraid I'm going to have to skip some issues. This is the last time -- we're happy to record -- that Turkey's relations with Armenia will move to another stage... Of course, this is a difficult case. So it's not just a chain of problems that can be overcome with the appointment of a special representative. So we hope that when Biden is released after the meeting, he will not be praised at some point in the process, as they say. We don't have to serenade long enough to figure out what to do and what not to do in foreign policy. We will do the opposite in foreign policy -- which is just mistakes -- whatever power has done in the coming period. Our republic had some basic values. I'm afraid the government has pushed these values aside, and the ones we fell into... a moment ago, when I said I mentioned an Italian pit last week -- dropped them in an Italian pit, and we're struggling there. We're not. You're struggling. I'll tell you one last thing, I'm afraid I've learned today. Don't call me Libya again. Don't make me open the box. Don't make me say it. (APPLAUSE) You'll learn more from your AKP MP friends who were present at that meeting.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0286par0109	Tell me. Mr. Ambassador, tell me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0285par0110	I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0287par0112	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Cemal Cetin. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0288par0115	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 11 of the 2022 Central Budget Law Proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we are experiencing the 60th year of the European Turkic labour-force migration to Germany, which has contributed greatly to Turkey's development as talks were held on the budget of 2022. On this occasion, in the 60th year of immigration, I would like to share with you as much as I can the lives of our people in Germany. Dear lawmakers, in the 1960s, our country was struggling with a number of problems in social and economic areas for reasons such as unemployment, injustice in the distribution of income and political turmoil. In the same years, Germany was taking foreign workers from various countries to satisfy the need for workers in the process of production and economic development. After a labour force agreement signed between Turkey and Germany on October 30, 1961, which paves the way for migration, our citizens began to go to Germany in groups. Although the workers who left Istanbul sixty years ago, filling their dreams and hopes with their luggage, making money and returning to Germany, they settled there and became Germany's largest ethnic immigrant group. Most Turkish citizens who went abroad at a time when the conditions of life in Turkey were very difficult were extremely limited and have no professional experience. They lived in very difficult conditions by going to a country where they had no language, no religion, no culture. The first generation, who went to Germany as workers, was subjected to a humiliating health check to determine whether they were fit to be employed in hard work, immediately placed in labor homes, ignoring the fact that they were human and needed integration. The first Turkish workers to go to Germany did not have the opportunity to control the terms of the contract they signed because they did not know the language. Generally, they were employed under heavy conditions, outside of the contract areas they signed. Soon, however, they felt that the goal of making a lot of money and returning home was to endure hardship and to work hard. From the 1970s, Turkish workers took advantage of the family union and began bringing their families to Germany. This became one of the most important factors for the Turks to remain in Germany. In the past 60 years, the Turks living in Germany have made significant contributions to both Germany and their homeland, Turkey and their homeland, socially, culturally and economically. They lived their lives with respect to the Constitution of Germany, respect for their laws, respect for their religious beliefs and cultures, and continue to live on. But the same tolerance is denied to them. The problems of the Turks living in Germany since the early 1960s have been unresolved, and they are also dealing with new problems. Despite the fact that some of our citizens have passed on to German citizenship and have added a lot to Germany socially, culturally and economically, they are still being discriminated against, they are still seen as second-rate human beings. In particular, integration policies that have been conducted against Turks in recent years have made their living conditions worse in social, political and economic areas. A variety of discrimination-based regulations and assimilation policies have been implemented. The unemployment rate among Turks today stands above the country's average due to discrimination and is the most important problem. Another problem they face is alien hostility and anti-Islamicism. Foreign hostility continues not only in the streets, but in homes, government offices, workplaces, schools, and all aspects of life. The Turks were constantly humiliated, discriminated against, subjected to violence, so they suffered a great deal. While the sufferings of our citizens who were burned to death in their homes in Solingen and Mölln are still fresh, the NSU serial killings and murders in Hanau have been added. Children born and raised in Germany, educated, and their native language forgets Turkish, even though they speak the language of the country they live in very well. The obstacles to the teaching of the Turkish language are increased day by day. Supporting Turkish courses taught in schools have been removed, and teachers are prevented from being brought from Turkey. Turkish children are not tolerated even speaking Turkish in schoolyards. The family merger has been blocked, and the young married from Turkey face great difficulties in bringing their wives to Germany. Their wives in Turkey are asked to speak good German so that they can come to Germany. This also attracts attention as an application only for Turks. Turkeys, facing discrimination and foreign hostility, are also subjected to attacks by PKK and CHP terrorist organisations, which are nested in Germany and protected by Germany. There are constant attacks on Turkish institutions and businesses, Turkish associations, mosques, and people on the street by racists and PKK terrorist organisations. People who fled from Turkey to seek refuge in Germany are trying to create public opinion with lies and slanders that will drive the Turks and Turkey living in Germany to become outcasts of Turkish society and Turkish institutions. Turkey's extensions of people and institutions attacked on media and televisions in Germany are being encouraged by the attempt to innocentise attacks by being called close to Turkey or by slanders, such as racists. In addition, politicians and political parties use immigrants as political material, fueling existing alien hostility, as they are anxious to collect votes in the elections. In response to the contribution the Turks have made to Germany in many areas of social and cultural, particularly economically, they have some expectations from them. These expectations include legal regulations on immigration rights, measures against foreign hostility and racism, the end of discrimination on education and religion in the native language, the removal of barriers to family integration. Today, 3 million Turkish people live in Germany, about 50 percent of them become citizens or dual citizens. Despite years of discrimination, exclusion, and humiliation, violence, and attacks, they have succeeded hard. Turkish people have become an integral part of Germany in every life of society, sports, art, in every field. 915,000 Turkish-rooted immigrants own houses and properties, over 100,000 Turkish-rooted employers provide more than 800,000 jobs, and they turn over 40 billion euros a year. The number of Turkish-rooted engineers, doctors, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, teachers has increased; in every profession, they exist and their numbers grow year after year. Dear MPs, the Turks in Germany have volunteered as ambassadors between the two countries, causing increased social and cultural wealth. I believe they will achieve many more successes if Germany and the Turks claim them, and that their achievements will bring great benefits to both Germany and Turkey and humanity. On this occasion, the first generation to go to Germany and face great challenges is blessed with the memory of those who have passed away, and to those who have survived, I wish them a healthy, long life. For the sake of God, I salute you again, that our budget of 2022 was good for our country and for our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0289par0127	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Erdal Aydemir. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0130	We started a little early, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, who spoke before me, in particular the HDP oratories, have described various concepts, such as,,,,, Kurdish language,,, Kurdish folklore, and, Kurdish culture. Unfortunately, at the point of arrival, these descriptions were not understood. Therefore, I felt the obligation to make a statement on this matter, however brief. Mr. Congresslors, look, this is a pomegranate fruit to the fruit world; this is a red, hard-shelled fruit with a single red red core; its flavor is very different; its flavor is very different; its flavor is very different; its flavor is very different. Yes, friends. This is also a fruit again described as an orange in the fruit world; see, its color is orange, its shell is softer, inside slices, flavors, flavors, flavors, and flavors are very different. Look, here's an orange, a fruit world, which is defined as an orange. All right, guys, now, why are we explaining this? Look, with hard and denial, you can't force the pomegranate to make oranges, or otherwise, you can't force this orange into pomegranates.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0291par0135	We'll do it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0136	Now, these statements, particularly on Turkicism, call on parties who are political about Turkish nationalism: Friends, when Turks are in history 177 B.C., are given by communities, peoples, Chinese neighbours who live south of the Altay Mountains. Look, the Turks didn't call themselves Turkish, they didn't define them as Turks. Who made that description? It's made by the Chinese who live next door.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0292par0137	You tell oranges and pomegranates, it's not your job to talk Turkish, forget it!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0138	Look, guys, yeah, it's also called Kurds by Armenians and Fars, who are neighbors to communities, communities, communities, groups that live in places that are also described as Mesopotamia.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0292par0139	Tell me about the oranges and pomegranates.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0140	Yeah, and the geography where the Kurds lived was historically called Kurdistan. Until, look, by the thousands, the first Turkish tribes from Central Asia came as an obas of 140.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0293par0141	The Turks have been here for 5,000 years.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0142	The people, Kurds, Armenians, and Persians, who came in with 140 people, stepped on their shouts. So to deny Kurdish here is to deny Turkishness, to deny Kurdish language, to deny Turkish language.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0294par0144	Get out of here.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0145	To deny Kurdish folklore, Kurdish music, Turkish music, Turkish folklore. So let's put a stop to this.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0295par0146	The Turks have made history.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0147	Well, Mr. AKP Group, do you know what this budget is budgeted for, my friends? This budget is love budget, love. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, leader of the AKP, is the budget of Recep Tayyip Erdogan's love for Kolin Construction.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0296par0149	The Turkish budget.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0150	Look, look, how does the fruit of Recep Tayyip Erdogan's love for Kalyon Construction appear in this budget? 49 billion, 49 quadrillion liras with old money; the fruit of Recep Tayyip Erdogan's love for Kalyon Construction. Yes, not only that, Recep Tayyip Erdogan's love for Kolin Construction is worth 40 billion, 40 quadrillion liras. Well, how can you be without Genghis Construction? The fruit of his love for Genghis Construction is 33 billion, 33 quadrillion liras. The love he's heard of the Renaissance Holdings, the fruit of love, 15 quadrillion liras. Not only that; AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, head of the administration, look what he's doing. Earth, look, around the world, Limak Holdings puts $49 billion, $49 billion, first place. What love is, what love is. You go to the United Arab Emirates, where you go to Qatar and you're searched for 1 billion, 2 billion, and you beg for it first, tell Genghis Construction, Limakίa, Kolinί, Kalyonίa, the dollars that you've given to MNG, there's another love: it's a divine love, a divine love. Such love has never been seen in the world, not now, not ever. Do you know who this is? This is the love of Şemsi Tebrizi. In other words, love for Recep Tayyip Erdogan by Ethhem Sandzak. Well, isn't that the fruit of love? Of course he does. What's the name of this fruit? BMC vehicle, large vehicle, a gift from the heavy car factory to Ethem Sandzak. Do you have any objections, anything you want to say, come and say it. This is the result of divine love. Your budget is love budget, money budget, dollar budget. Friends, Congressmans, please look very carefully now. Especially the AKP, the AKP Group, what is this? It's a pot you've forgotten for years. You know what's cooking in this pot? In this pot, the soup is cooked, the soup is cooked, the food is cooked. What you've erased from your life, from your memories, is food. Look who owns this pot. Look, the owners of this pot, the ones who are now collecting bread, vegetables, and taking them home, take them.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0297par0152	Where is he?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0153	The owners of this pot are these people, these people, whose breadlines you've lined up for miles.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0297par0154	Where's that?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0298par0155	Mr. Ramadan, if you look around, you'll find them.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0156	Are we always to thank the owners of this pot, and let Recep Tayyip Erdogan be a little grateful. This 73-year-old aunt who says, "This pot is the pot that sheds tears in the rain when the owners of this pot are in the bread line; or the owner of this pot, who is human, who is ashamed of it, who has a human sense of humanity, who is ashamed, who is ashamed of it, who is ashamed of it, who is ashamed of it, who is ashamed of it -- who is able to give and heat the electric hair dryer into the hand of his child's child. Yeah, whose pot is this? Again, the pot of those who couldn't give their wives an allowance to go to the market in Samsun, and who hanged themselves as a result. Okay, guys, this pot is the pot of those who have to commit suicide because the farmer can't pay off the loan he's owed. Now, do you guys know why this pot is so sacred?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0299par0158	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0290par0159	This pot has never seen the persecution it experienced during the AKP's reign, nor has it seen any period of time. The owners of this pot are unemployed, poor, retired, doctors, nurses, teachers, farmers, 10 million unemployed, do you know what the owners of this pot are waiting for? The owners of this pot are waiting for the chest in the first election to be put in front of them. You know what they're gonna do in this crate? In it they will burn your candy, and make your candy and your candy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] My respects. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Make it worth your while.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0300par0164	Congressmans, again, I would like to remind you that the sixth joke of the 160th Article of the Civil Code forbids bringing currency, banners, and so on. Gene, with the signature of the MPs of the People's Republican People's Party, Peoples' Democratic Party, National Movement Party Group Deputys, the ruling of the Presidential Court in 2016 that the General Board cannot bring products and goods to all parties, under the decree of the Presidential Court. Here are the signatures of all the political parties that day.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0301par0165	What date is it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0300par0166	And then again, in the January 25, 2017 resolution, there is also a decision on the failure to bring any material to the General Assembly, except for a document to support the Turkish Parliament's speech on the agenda by parliament in order to maintain its reputation in the country and in the world. I'm asking all of our MPs to be more sensitive about this.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0302par0167	We're gonna do a helva, Mayor. It's nothing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0300par0168	I've been roasting your candy for years on the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0303par0169	You didn't do that when the ministers brought in the big paintings. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0300par0175	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Orhan Sarıbal. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0178	My fellow lawmakers, you have to start there, many things have been said here, but Turkey is currently starving and people in Turkey are being tested for not reaching bread. He may be trying to reduce it to poorer, poorer, and bond from there, but let's face it: If Russia, Ukraine, Romania don't give Turkey wheat right now, there won't be bread in major cities with those tails or other cheap bread stores. Again, if Romania doesn't give us sunflowers, you won't have sunflower oil on your tables. Republic history has never seen anything like it. The Republic's history has not passed such an ordeal of hunger and poverty. One of them succeeded; the AKP and the palace succeeded. (HPP and HDP clapping in rows) Because for them, bread was the capital, bread was the stock market, for them was the wealth of the breadholders. Why am I saying this? It's very clear, something very important has just been said here, and it's said that the most important right to be human is, of course, the right to live. You have no right to live if you don't support your right to free air, food and water after that for now. In Turkey right now, people have no right to eat. Know that the rich also go hungry, but you may not be able to get food, even if you have money. Why am I saying this? Here are two companies who received the tender in the 21 million tonnes of fertilizer launched by the TIGEM during your rule, and two of them were unable to deliver the goods; and TIGEM did not receive the fertilizer. So, what did you do? Because of the fertilizer that TIGEM could not buy, you closed your 8 factories in history, earned $265 million in income, but you had to pay $22 billion for importing 76 million tons of fertilizer in your own time alone. So, what did you do at the same time? You did something else. Of course, it's just been said again, so Genghis Holdings is cool. First, you gave him all of Mazidağı's phosphate resources, you banned fertilizer exports, but Genghis continues to produce phosphate, the same Genghis, what are you doing with that stock, what's that phosphate? It's not enough, you're doing your best to give him $1.8 billion from the President's welfare fund to build a fertilizer factory. It's very clear, very clear. My fellow lawmakers, Turkey is going through a very unusual process, but we have a traditional saying: "Tok doesn't understand hunger." Because you and all of us under this roof, my dear people, I'm telling you, this is where the cheapest meat of the Republic of Turkey is sold, this is where the cheapest food of the Republic of Turkey is; of course, the AKP has promised you Paradise in the next world with its salary.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0305par0181	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0182	And he keeps promising it. Thus, Turkey is now facing a serious hunger problem. Why am I saying this? Look, you spent $25.8 billion on agriculture in a budget, 25.8 billion. I'm telling you again, the bait is $100 billion a year, $800 million in the budget, and again the fertilizer, 80 billion in the farmer's budget, $1.6 billion out of the budget, $1.6 billion in the budget; diesel, 30 billion in the farmer's money a year; $3.1 billion in the budget; the seed, 20 billion in the farmer's money per year; unfortunately, the money in the budget is $400 million; the pesticide, the $10 billion in the budget is zero. So, dear friends, the money the farmer will pay in five pens is $240 billion. So, what's not on this one? I'll tell you what it's not: no electricity, no irrigation, no mechanization, no loan interest, no labor, no BUG-KUR, no storage, no SEC. In contrast, only 240 billion dollars and five pens behind all of this. Do you think farmers can produce in this country, dear friends? Do you think this country can be produced on this budget? Do you think that in this country, a structure that has given all food rights to foreign companies, foreign countries, can be produced from this order? He can't, but instead of talking about it, you supported your import lobby. How? Look, in just four pens, the money you paid during your reign in seeds, pesticides, food and fertilizer is 91.7 billion dollars, 91.7 billion dollars. What's wrong with that now? I'll tell you, seeds, pesticides, bait, fertilizer, diesel, there's nothing I've just said, but in these five pens, you have to see that you're paying very seriously. So, is there anything in this budget about the farmer's debt? I don't have any. In 2002, you borrowed 2.4 billion; 2.4. Only banks have 155 billion in October 2021 and 10 billion in Agriculture Loan Co-operative 165 billion. What about the drug debt to the dealerships? He's not here. Fertilizer debt? He's not here. Seed debt? He's not here. Electricity money? He's not here. Water money? He's not here. BUG-KUR? He's not here. With them, there are over 200 billion debts. You know, when you say: "We've raised the military fee, we've raised the other one so much." (The farmers' debt has increased 84 times, friends, it's a record; of course we're facing a government capable of breaking records.) [[!]] Dear friends, here comes the Minister, we're exporters, we've got too many. He says, all the ruling officials come and say so. I'll tell you, as of October 2002-2021, Turkey has clearly exported $133 billion in imports and $89 billion in exports. There's a total of 33 to 34 billion dollars short, but it's not easy to talk about. When you look at the products that we're doing in exports, they're all growing in this land, but unfortunately, the power has no interest in returning to such production, such as doing such a thing. In fact, the whole point is that he wanted to run the country for seven years with a power import bat. He wanted to discipline the farmer, but he did one other thing, by buying big ships for his own followers, by importing big ships -- wheat, barley, corn -- he shot two birds with a stone, and for a long time he trained the farmer, the consumer, the community. But they couldn't think, they ruled so badly, they ruled so badly that when the dollar went up 12 times, that import bat came in, and it's teaching power beautifully right now. Do you know what kind of manners it is? Think of a government, think of the government of a country, there are 780,000 square kilometers, 200 million acres of plantable farmland, and this government encourages imports. How? Dear friends, right now the Earth's Mahullar Office is taking a ton of wheat from the outside for 4,700 lira, forcing it not to be expensive, and encouraging imports by saying, "The flour sack is going to be between $184 and $200." During the AKP alone, the Earth crop office, which imports 26 billion TL, paid 15 billion from the treasury. Isn't that encouraging imports? You were the first in the history of the Republic, I congratulate you, of course. This is an important success story; it is a historical process that you can take and always use freely; we must be aware of that. My fellow congressmen, there is much to be said. Look, there's a law here, it's the law.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0188	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0189	Okay. Over and over again, we said, "Don't take 2 percent and 4 percent tax without supporting it. It's not possible. You get four percent tax on agricultural support, two percent tax. There's law, there's lawsuit, our farmers win the case, there's a quick law here. According to that law, you'll be returning taxes from the farmer for the last five years. Well, how? Guys, no. Really put your hands on your conscience. You say: By December 31, the farmers must go to the tax office and apply. There are friends, there are consciences. Did you ask him when he cut this? Did you say anything when you cut it directly from the agricultural bank? Did you get the farmer's signature at the Farm Bank?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0192	Mr. Sarıbal, your time is complete.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0193	Don't I have a minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0194	I gave it time.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0195	I'm not aware of that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0196	You used it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0197	Let me finish, this is very important, but it's up to date.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0198	You used him. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0200	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Look, please cancel this December 31st thing. No farmer can go to the tax offices and petition for our money back.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0202	Mr. Saribal, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0203	On what grounds will these people today go to the IRS if they don't know the way to the IRS? Those who don't go to the IRS will not be refunded. With what conscience, with what morality?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0204	Mr. Saribal, your time is up. Please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0307par0205	He's giving us information.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0304par0206	Please, pull this back.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0306par0208	Yes, Mr. Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0210	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. I'd like to make an assessment on behalf of our group. Yes, the AK PARTY was twenty years old, nineteen years in power. As soon as it is established, our nation's faith has been praised by the nation for expressing its history, and for 19 years the uninterrupted power has been offering the 20th budget, which is a great blessing. It is a matter of honor and pride for us to serve our nation, to answer their prayers. Really, we're happy about this. On this occasion, I call upon the blessing of our 20th budget, and for the good of our Lord God. You know, we're going through a process all over the world. His pandemic's been running uninterrupted for two years. All humanity was affected by this process; both the supply chains were broken and energy prices increased, inflation rose, and truly mankind faced a depression that it saw once a century. However, by taking part in all of our nation, our people, with the measures that we have taken, God be praised, in the effort and the effort to minimize this crisis, in the hope that we will continue to be, and in the hope that we will be. You know, we're putting together a new model. What we do is in the mind of our nation as collateral for what we do. Just as we've been through all the trouble in 19 years, we've really managed to get our nation to the coast, and hopefully we'll get through these crises and these troubles together, by the way, by increasing the power of all our nation's sectors, from farmer to farmer, from pensioner to employee, from tradesman to industry, by envelopment of the nation, by the will of God, we'll all get through this mess together, no one will have any doubt about it. Yeah, what's our new model? Our new model is a model based on production. Some call it the Chinese model, some call it the Korean model. We study the whole world, and because we are a national and domestic party, our policies are national and domestic. Thus, the model is called the model of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0309par0213	Your president told me he wasn't a national.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0214	It's a unique model of our nation. We'll all see, we'll see how things turn out. Yes, investment, production, employment, exports and growth... that's our new model, called the local and national growth model. In 2013, we parted ways with the IMF.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0309par0215	You don't need an IMF when you're around.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0216	We paid $23.5 billion and said, "You can't cook on our backs anymore."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0309par0218	You don't need an IMF when you've got a crew of five.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0219	As a result, we came and said bye-bye! To the IMF, to the custody centers. We said goodbye to the international custody centers and sent them away.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0309par0220	We call you Bye-bye.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0221	Someone pressed the button, and in May 2013, there was a travel incident. Together, some televisions that wanted to broadcast live from the outside were deployed to that place a month ago.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0310par0222	That'll be $15!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0223	But what happened? Thank God they didn't make it. Then came December 17-25, then tried to create other crises.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0311par0224	There were shoe boxes at the time.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0225	I'm just passing through because we're running out of time, some sort of chronological situation. In the end, it was July 15th.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0312par0226	Before that, there's December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0308par0227	On July 15th, foreign forces and their presence, collaborators, who really wanted to demonstrate the international coup and invasion plan, received the necessary response from our nation. This is the leadership of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Peace be upon him, God bless him. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Why? Because just like Mustafa Kemal Pasha, in the First Instruction -- mentioned here yesterday -- a reference was made to Mr. Prime Minister about Ilgaz, and I also wish that he would be listed as Minister of Çankırı -- that Ilgaz was the base of our struggle, just as he was in our First Amendment struggle. (ARK PARTI) Because Inebolu, Kastamon, Ilgaz, Çankırı, Ankara Line 1st Instational Warfare is a pathway, which is a very important one. In the same way, Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım ordered that the runway at Mürted Airport, where the planes that bombed, bombed, bombed, and bombed our entire Assembly could not function, by setting up the headquarters of our Second Initiative there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0312par0229	Tell me about December 17th, about the resets.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0313par0230	Open up, people, open up!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0314par0231	What does that have to do with anything? People are hungry, they're hungry!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0315par0232	That's the truth! You can't cover up the facts by twisting the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0313par0234	That's the porter!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0316par0235	Tell me about the tapes, about the tapes, about the 17-25.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0317par0236	Tell me about the five-alarm gang!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0318par0237	May God help you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0239	So, dear friends, with the will of God, we are fighting for full independence. Just as Mustafa Kemal Pasha, led by Mustafa Pasha, led by the political independence and established the state of the Republic of Turkey independently, we now fight our economic independence under the leadership of Recep Tayyip Erdogan; that is the truth of the matter.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0320par0241	Please don't shout!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0321par0242	That's $15. What economic independence!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0243	No matter what anyone says, those who come to take account of your height will be measured by the victory of the Cumhur Alliance in June 2023, by the will of God.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0321par0245	Out on the street, out on the street, people, open up!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0322par0246	Get the chest.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0247	Yeah, everybody's talking. Our people have formulated, they speak...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0323par0248	AK PARTY does.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0324par0249	Open, open, people open! Talk about bread. Talk about bread.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0250	They're talking... they're talking... they're talking, they're making AK PARTY, yeah, that's the point.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0324par0251	Open up, people, open up!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0252	Dear friends, in the 80-year period of the republic, many governments have come and gone. It was $36 billion in exports.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0325par0253	How much was the loan?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0324par0254	Bread... bread...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0255	Mr. Trade Minister, look, it's here. We're over 220 billion dollars, alhamdulillah.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0324par0257	How much is a sack of flour?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0258	All right, guys, 600 percent increase, six times increase.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0324par0259	It's 400 lira for a sack of flour!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0260	Yes, my dear lawmakers, my dear nation, it was 6,000 kilometers of divided road.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0324par0261	It's 400 lira for a sack of flour! You can't buy a loaf of bread!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0262	A leader who dedicated himself to his nation as Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a servant of the nation, laid out the results that we could achieve after four centuries; this is art and service politics. In 80 years, 6,000 kilometers have increased to 30,000 kilometers in nineteen years. Here's the service epic, here's the AK PARTY difference.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0324par0264	400 lira a sack, 400 lira!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0319par0265	I'd like to talk to you about a few more things, and my time is short: there's been a lot of talk about our President here, like the marketing manager of a company, like the marketing director of drones and SIHAs. This is a great injustice, slandering our President, slandering the will of the nation. We can no longer be underestimated or drawn from this tremendous service that we have done to the floor, to the point where we can no longer be able to make a needle, to the point where we can sell drones to NATO countries, SIHA, and to a different point. I hereby present my thanks to all our young engineers, especially Selçuk Bayraktar, who produce drones and SIHA.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0326par0268	Just give me five more minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0327par0269	What is SIHA Akbasoglu; is it being eaten or drunk? Our people ask you about it. Are the SIHAs being renovated?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0328par0270	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0329par0271	And we also remember Ozdemir Bayraktar Bey, who really is the veteran of this work, with mercy, gratitude, gratitude, and respect. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Only we can decide which countries to sell what weapons. Security, political, military, diplomatic, we decide independently by discussing every issue. With our national and local political stance, we will act in some places with the United States and Russia, and we will face each other on others, but you will do exactly the opposite of the services of Karabağ to Libya, the blue country to Cyprus. If you say so, you will be friends with Greece. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Then this nation will never give you power.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0330par0275	We're talking business, bread, justice.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0331par0276	Mr. Akbasoglu, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0329par0277	Sir, I'm gonna go ahead and pick up where I left off the rest of the stuff.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0332par0278	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0331par0279	We're not compiling, you know, that's the Group Vice President's deal.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0332par0280	The deal was violated.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0333par0281	No, no, I spoke on behalf of the group; no. Haven't we talked? You guys are running for the band, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0331par0282	I mean, he didn't pick on me, so I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0334par0283	No, it's like...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0335par0284	Who is cooperating with Greece?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0331par0285	Guys, give me a break.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0334par0286	There's no way a Group Vice President is gonna come out here and make a day review.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0331par0287	No, no, there's nothing wrong with that. They spoke on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. And you can talk on behalf of the PTA Party Group at the next item, so there's nothing in the way of that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0336par0288	Who is cooperating with Greece?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0334par0289	On the list we get...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0337par0290	You didn't put this here, it's not here.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0338par0291	Sir, they had a decision not to use it, and now they've decided to use it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0337par0292	He's not here.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0338par0293	I can't do anything as a Court, which, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, there's nothing I can do.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0339par0294	So...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0337par0295	Mr. President, you can't.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0339par0296	Mr. President, there's no deal under these conditions, so I'm going to consider the matter according to 60...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0340par0297	Yeah, well, you can break the deal, I don't have that problem, whatever you want, so...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0341par0298	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0339par0299	Mr. Akbasoglu was going to think about it from the top of the screen, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0341par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0342par0301	Excuse me, Mr. Akbasoglu, I'm listening to Mr. Ozkoç. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0343par0303	Sir, of course you can't do anything, you're Deputy Speaker of Parliament, I'll speak on behalf of the group's vice president of a political party. If he says so, he should have informed us earlier as to our agreement in the back.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0342par0304	True, but what can I do?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0343par0305	I hope you'll agree, I'm not saying you, I hope you'll agree. Look, we're here to give our friends a say in what they're talking about. That's what our friends are waiting for when they speak. What are we counting on? To the AKP Group's promise to us. Unfortunately, Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group, when you yell at all people here, it's not true. To be right, you have to tell the truth, there's no point in shouting unless you tell the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0342par0307	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0343par0308	...but on behalf of the CHP Group, I say that we really don't appreciate it, and there's no way we're going to talk about it anymore.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0344par0310	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0345par0311	Mr. President, I...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0343par0312	Okay? Let Mr. Muhammad continue with this.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0346par0313	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Beştaş asked for a word before you did.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0347par0314	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0346par0315	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0348par0316	Mr. President, weeks ago, there were talks on budget talks, tours and matter negotiations, correct. This program has been distributed throughout the groups, which is true, and I know that groups have reported all groups of speakers to the Laws Decisions a long time ago, by identifying their own speakers, so we've reported that, if there are very small changes, we've made a few changes two days earlier, and...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0346par0317	Mr. Beştaş, just because he was reported doesn't mean the Justice and Development Party has given up its right to speak.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0348par0318	Doesn't mean he can't change it. Of course, of course.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0349par0319	But he has to keep his promise to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0348par0321	But what I'm trying to say is, that's exactly what I'm saying, is that by reporting it, we're actually expressing a will. After all, we can all change, and at the last minute, we can change our speaker. You're right, as a Court, but there was an interview behind the bench this morning...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0350par0322	There will be an evaluation...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0348par0323	... and after all the materials are finished, we will respond to the criticisms, the taunts in the day. We said, "Ooh, we have not done the opposite so far."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0350par0324	Right.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0348par0325	But right now, with a last-minute change, I don't agree with a Group Vice President's agreement that he has to do with 11 minutes -- not to mention anything -- not to mention the relevant material, not to the budget, but to answer all the taunts or speeches, which means that I don't agree with our agreement.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0350par0326	Well, thank you, it's on the record.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0348par0327	If there's no agreement, we don't follow it, so there's no other explanation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0351par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0350par0329	If you'll excuse me, I'll make a promise to Mr. Akbasoglu first. Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0331	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0350par0333	Guys, excuse me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0334	I'd like to point out that we didn't have a eulogy, we had a truth talk, and I'd like to put it this way.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0353par0335	To you, of course.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0336	Second, there was no mention of these issues at a meeting point other than us -- unfortunately -- in your office in the morning.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0354par0337	What do you mean?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0338	It's like, look, the way it's been understood, it's come to the Presidential Court, the Presidential Court, all the groups. This does not include the speech of the AK PARTY on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0354par0339	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0340	It's like this: we've also expressed to Mr. President that we're going to make an assessment of this, that we're going to speak on behalf of our group where we need to.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0354par0341	Why didn't you tell us?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0342	We told everyone, but you weren't there, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0354par0343	No, you didn't tell us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0344	You weren't there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0354par0345	What do you mean...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0346	You weren't there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0355par0347	We haven't been told either; no, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0354par0348	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0349	No, you weren't there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0356par0350	No, no, it wasn't.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0351	You weren't there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0357par0352	So he's not talking about the meeting with you, Mr. Akbasoglu, yes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0353	Yeah. You weren't there, you weren't there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0358par0355	Mr. President, every time you call us, we meet in the back with you. It's an unrealistic statement; it's a shame, it's a shame.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0356	Mr. President, as a result, we were in your position at five to eleven in the morning.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0358par0357	You had a group meeting?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0358	No, no.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0358par0359	Then why are you saying it here?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0360	It's like, look, it's normal, it happens all the time...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0358par0361	No, you had a group meeting?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0362	No, it's always...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0359par0363	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, there's no need to argue about this.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0360par0364	Let's break it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0365	Look, I'm just saying what I'm going to say. I'm here on behalf of the group for ten minutes... See, the PTA, the MHP, the HDP and CHP used ten minutes in all 11 articles on behalf of their group.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0360par0366	It's not like we're discussing that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0367	Five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, and 11...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0361par0368	Mr. Akbasoglu was a choice of the Justice and Development Party Group not to speak on behalf of the groups and they reported it that way.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0362par0369	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0370	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0363par0371	It's your choice.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0372	As a result,
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0364par0373	Do you hear what he's saying?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0365par0374	And now you've used your choice to talk. There's nothing I can do about it as a couch.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0375	... We've also expressed that we're going to talk about this -- as the Presidential Court -- where we need to talk about it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0366par0376	He broke the deal, Mayor, it's that simple.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0352par0377	Therefore, there is no change in our attitude. I declare it. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0367par0379	There's nothing I can do here. It's on the record.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0368par0380	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0369par0381	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0367par0382	Mr. Akçay, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0368par0383	Mr. President, we don't see anything in these conversations that contradicts the agreement of groups based on group care. Just five hours ago, maybe six hours ago, the officers here brought in lists of the Court speakers. Now, there's no need to read them all by matter, and they all say Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu on behalf of the Justice Development Party Group. It's a choice of the group, a change in group speakers who want every moment...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0369par0384	Who's it to, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0370par0385	Who's it for?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0371par0386	It came to everyone, everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0372par0387	Sir, there's...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0373par0388	No, who did he come to? He didn't come to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0374par0389	He didn't come to us; no, he didn't come to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0373par0390	You're an alliance, he can come to you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0375par0391	No, sir, it has nothing to do with the alliance.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0373par0392	He didn't come to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0376par0393	He definitely didn't come to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0373par0394	He didn't come to us. Ask him.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0377par0395	No, sir, he didn't come, did he? Let's see who's dealing, fellas.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0376par0396	No, let them say he didn't come to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0378par0397	Well, then, I asked for the list of who would speak on every item, and they brought it to me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0379par0398	No, he's not here; neither are we.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0376par0399	No, he didn't come to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0380par0400	Why didn't you want it? Why didn't you want it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0381par0401	Well, can't the band change at the last minute?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0382par0402	Yes, Mr. Akçay, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0383par0404	Of course it does, but we sit down, we talk in the back, the group has decided to talk. We say, OK.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0384par0405	He can change, President, we say. He can change.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0383par0406	Are we pine cones here without saying a word?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0385par0407	No, not at all, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0383par0408	But is that okay?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0385par0409	So it's not about him, so you can change it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0386par0410	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0383par0411	Which Group Vice President has ever acted like this? We're doing what we're talking about back there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0385par0412	Yeah, well, that could be it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0383par0413	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0385par0414	So he can't talk if you don't want him to, Akbasoglu or...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0383par0415	No, he didn't come to us, we don't.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0385par0416	It's not true, I find this approach incorrect.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0387par0417	Mr. Akçay, please... Mr. Master, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0388par0419	Now, of course, the AK PARTI Group's preference to speak on behalf of the group was that he would rather not speak on behalf of the group, but there would be no speech expressed to us, so in terms of a time-saving agreement, I think it's gone pretty well so far. But look, 40 people spoke before Mr. Akbasoglu; there were no such talks here, no tensions. Mr. Akbasoglu gave the kind of speech that IMF and here and here -- which is not relevant to the issue -- that a Group Vice President shouldn't talk about. So from now on, sir, the deal goes on, or this way, this way. There's no point in saying it. I mean, if we were to talk about it, it could be reported, of course, but it would be by a congressman... look, we sat down until now, without opening our mouths, as a group vice president, so would our other friends. But to come out and do a summary of the day, which isn't relevant to the issues...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0387par0421	Here you go. It's already on the record.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0388par0423	And I'll tell you what, while I'm at it. Now, Mr. Ahmet Kamil has been taunting Erozan. For one thing, look, on 16 July 2008, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was Prime Minister and we are marketing the country. I mean, why are you so offended by his expression, like a salesman, and you say it as an unjust expression...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0389par0424	Oh, come on, of course.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0388par0425	...then you're telling Mr. Erdogan about this statement, which means get out of here; I don't want to say it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0389par0426	You're mean, you're mean, you're mean.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0388par0427	But what Mr. Kamil Erozan was trying to express there, Mr. President, is that the sale of weapons, the economy with foreign policy, especially if it's a sale of weapons, you can't think of it as independent of foreign policy, I'm going to take a bag and sell this gun to this one, I'm going to sell it to this one. You can't just say you can't sell it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0390par0428	Thank you. It's on the record.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0388par0430	So we're selling the country in his own words. There's no point in being so offended by his statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit03spe0390par0432	It's on the record. Thank you. I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0390par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The commission is in place. We stayed in talks on behalf of individuals on the 11th article. The first word is for Mr. Hussain Shanver. Here you go, Mr. Shanverdi.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0391par0013	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 11 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY's government has been aiming and struggling for 19 years to get where our nation and our state deserve, to be where it deserves to be in the world politically and economically. During our rule, we've planned and implemented all of our work, all of our projects, to this goal. Many indicators show that Turkey has continued its course by strengthening its way despite the Covid-19 epidemic, from growth rates to record breakouts in exports, from increased industrial production to turnout to workforce. In addition, we have implemented numerous investments such as hospitals, highways, bridges, dams, drinking water and irrigation facilities, organised industrial areas, techno parks, energy and defence industry projects. My constituency is in Hatay, where there is a demand boom in organised industrial areas. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We'll continue our new investments today without slowing down. As we continue to invest without slowing down, as we continue our 2023 vision, the environments that don't want Turkey to grow and become stronger have done their best to turn us away from this path, and they continue to do so. They put terror cards on the table, we didn't compromise, we blew up those cards in their hands. On the one hand, they were preaching democracy, but on the other hand, they contradicted themselves by supporting the coup. They put the coup card on the table, with the leadership and the influence of our President, and we destroyed those cards along with our nation. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] And today, on their way to 2023, they started an unprecedented economic attack with all the resources they had, creating perceptions with the global media forces, with the financial lobby. For 19 years, we've found that every attack is planned, every step is under a premeditated strategy. Can we say that what US President Biden promised for Turkey before he took office was independent of what happened today? Whether the vehicles change or the instruments change, the only goal is to overthrow the AK PARTY, to overthrow our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Because they know that Turkey without the EC PARTI is weak Turkey; Turkey without Recep Tayyip Erdogan is Turkey, not Turkey, who builds the future; Turkey, without goals, saves the day. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] These days, when we approach 2023, they increase their attack doses, their efforts to build the Turkey they dream of. But we didn't just put our head on this road, we put our whole body on it, no one could doubt it. We're going to waste all efforts to prevent our country's progress, yes. And we will bring our country to its rightful place as we aim. They said to our president, "Don't build Marmaray, don't build the third-large bridge, don't build the world's largest airport; don't do the olive branch, the Fırat Shield, Operation Peace Fountain." Now they say, "Don't do the Canal Istanbul." But they don't know that this country is no longer a country where borders are drawn, and with the AK PARTY power, its borders are now defined only by the interests of this nation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0392par0022	Way to go, bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0391par0023	No external frontier applies to us, and there will be no more. So don't let any of our citizens despair, don't let any of our people believe in us, don't let them down, because we'll ruin this game too. We will continue our journey without compromise under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0393par0026	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0391par0027	I wish that the 2022 budget would be a blessing for our country and our nation, and I salute you with respect, love, and conversation. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0393par0030	The second word on his behalf is for Mr. Zeki Hakan Sidalı. Mr. Sedal, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0394par0033	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been talking about economics for ten days, you don't want to understand or ignore it. I don't want to repeat it, but I have to: the budget has lost its reality in two months, budget revision is essential; are you going to do it or how, when? In short, when doing the revision, give up the fight against the lira that represents the power, dignity and independence of our country. Mr. Treasury and the Minister of Finance have also told me that there are no foreign forces, so let's put that story down. Make a change in your politics, work on the public economy. Kur, figure out what you want to do with interest interventions. These intermittent interventions give the lucky ones an advantage. Explain to whom the bank is selling the currency on the day of the intervention to get rid of the suspects, or you'll be passing foreign currency to certain companies at an advantage. Stop naming your weird apps, they're not models. The last thing we're going to do is go down or we're going to go out, like, I call it the national lottery model, and if it does, it's like it does. Don't accuse the dealer of corruption, don't reduce morality to the currency in the accounts; you've broken the hearts of your five contractors and BCI partners, so let's close the national economy with satire a little bit, and talk a little bit about Mersin. We strongly disagreed that you put the citrus on export leave, and you didn't listen. Years of labor, trade networks and current markets have been lost to rivals. Two and a half liras last year, and the lemon can't find a buyer for 40 cents this year. I told you before, lemons aren't just lemons; they're farming, they're employment, they're exports. We've heard today that Russia, unfortunately, has stopped importing certain products again. A month ago, I told you to support the assets from this bench and toss DFI support at least 100 dollars per ton this year. But there's nothing there. Local TV channels pay their satellite rent by dollar; they can't pay it, and now they've got a dollar increase. This is the death notice of the local press. Drop the exchange-indicted application immediately, and even take measures to support them. The number of registered vehicles in Tarsus has exceeded 100,000. A vehicle inspection station must be opened immediately. One of the export gates of the entire region, Çukurova regional airports, has been going on for as long as we can't remember. You said this was going to be our country's second-largest cargo space, but on behalf of our manufacturers and exporters, how do we get to this target without the road lines running out? The Konya-Karaman-Transport Project was going to increase exports, it was a story. We're looking at the construction of logistical centers that will contribute greatly to exports, and it's still in drag. There's no progress in the project for a railroad connection to organized industrial areas. I'm referring to Mersin. In the Mediterranean Coast Road Project, the end of the tunnel is invisible. No one knows the date for the completion of the fountain-Strike Highway. Like the Mersin-Tarsus route, the highway must be free. City hospital needs to get off the highway. The paths of the righteous, Silifke-Gülnar, Karaman-Mut-Silifke must be completed and launched immediately. There's a lot of traffic on the Mersin-Adana route. A road project from the coast to Alexanderun must be put on the agenda. It's important for the beach band project and the port and airport connection that you can't get started. Our exporters cannot find empty containers to send their goods abroad from the port of Mersin; delays in delivery increase the cost, and damage our competitiveness. A year ago, I told you to clear the way for domestic container production, and you still haven't stepped in. Our exporters have been complaining about rising prices of astronomical navl in the last year.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0395par0041	Finish your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0394par0043	I am, Mr. President. The Ministry of Commerce had set up a board on this, but there was no word from him. In the Tenth Development Plan, you told Mersin to build the main container port, and in the 11th Development Plan, you changed it to a place in the eastern Mediterranean. The Port of Mersin is currently operating at full capacity, and a significant portion of the loads are being routed to other ports of the Mediterranean, and we are losing thousands of dollars every day, and stop stalling and stalling. Because of the chasm between your rhetoric and your actions, our farmers and industrialists can't repay their efforts, they lose. You make the same commitments every budget, but you come back next year and you say the same thing again. I wish we didn't tire out the ministers who haven't changed this year, and now the infrastructure's available, so we could put last year's talks on tape. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0396par0048	Thank you, Mr. Sadalı. Talks on Article 11 have been completed. There's no question-answering process. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Treasure guaranteed opportunity and the loan limit of external debt and the commitment limit and the transactions related to debt MADDE 12- (1) In 2022, the guarantee for public financing number 28/3/2002 and the regulation of debt management 4749 is 4.5 billion U.S. dollars. (2) A 1st article (a) can be exported to 3 per cent of the initial grants specified by the first article (a). The Treasury and Finance Minister is authorized to determine the distribution of private state-owned debt bonds between public-owned banks and public-owned institutions, the terms of the bonds, the amount, interest and other conditions. (3) Under Article 8/A of Law No. 4749 in 2022, the commitment of the Treasury and Finance Ministry is 4.5 billion dollars. First word on behalf of the group, Mr. Behic Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0397par0062	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party to express my views on Article 12 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. We're here today to discuss a budget that has lost its meaning due to economic uncertainty. We're talking about a budget that even in the commission, all the data's been turned upside down. The ruling party now persists in its insistence to read its own way, to listen to warnings. And yet, it's no surprise that this picture of political understanding exposed the country. The AKP is tired, has lost dynamism, has lost its excitement and activity. It's the only kind of text that this staff can afford. Yes, as we approach the end of budget talks, we see clearly: the country's economic, social, political, cultural, cultural, security, health, and agriculture are driven to a cliff; it is the failure of workers, workers, farmers, merchants, all workers, pensioners, pensioners, women, disableds; the country's rise in culture, art, literature, and ignorance, aside from the fact that the country is at its peak. Of course, it's a pity that in the past 20 years, all the resources of the country, the wealth of the country, when there's nothing left to plunder and turn into money, there's nothing left to help the Gulf. Therefore, the budget for the 2022 budget of the AKP, a visionless, missionless, aimless budget, is in no position to contribute to our nation because the ruling owners have forgotten all parts of society in the misery of thinking of their own political ambitions. The result is poverty, inflation, unemployment and interest, hunger, despair, despair. From 2014 to 2022, friends, do you think it would be a constant domestic regression? Despite the abundance of hot money at this time, it is the greatest handicap to have resources and resources pumped into a group of courtish people and millions of people not being able to deal with their issues. While the black hole you've created swallows billions of dollars, we're all witnesses to what kind of poverty and despair this country's all wrapped up in. They describe the history, would it be repeated if there were any examples? Mehmet Akif says. The adventure of marketing the Ottomans, which began a hundred and eighty-three years ago, peaked at the Muharrem decree in 1881. Established Duyun DÜyümiye Administration has gone to collect its debts by taking directly all the Ottoman income the imperialists have. Isn't there a similar to the Entity Fund today, the debt management, the autonomous income management? This troubled situation shows the grave picture of the Turkish Republic of Turkey, which is particularly clear about economic independence, falling into AKP hands. So there's no example from history. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to point out that the Entity Fund should be open to discussion. The lack of control of the asset fund by the Court raises doubts. How do you manage the bonds of this, how do you manage the banks, how do you manage institutions like CHAKUR, how do you manage connected CITs? Doesn't the Supreme Assembly have the right to know on behalf of the Turkish nation? There's an American scholar, Walls, who says: "The crisis is like a flash of lightning, it reveals the true features of the landscape. " Here we are in a crisis, and today's landscape is completely naked. And I want to make it clear from here that if the government wants to put an end to this sad painting, it must repent and sincerely stay away from collaborative policies, serving our national interests. Friends, our MP, Mr. Hakan Sedali, spoke to Mersin in one dimension, and I would like to present some information about Mersin. Although we have expressed it many times, it is sad that Mersin, one of Turkey's most important provinces, received less support than expected during the AKP ruling period. Mersin (formerly known as "Ireel") has a history of about eight hundred years today, from Seljuklu's coastal side of the Anatolian plateau, which struck the Turkish seal on the Anatolian geography. The population growth rate in Mersin has dropped below the Turkish average, friends. This shows that Mersin is now exporting populations. According to the SEGE Index, Mersin is in the socioeconomic development ranking, unfortunately, in the third-level province group, and in the third-party group; 33 is in the province ranking, 39 is in the health and 52 is in the employment ranking; according to TİK data, he is in the 71st place among the 81 provinces. Since 2014, Mersin has been in constant decline; he has seen $16.6 billion in 2014, with the highest domestic revenue. The potential for exports and imports is too high, and Mersin is unable to use his potential because of power's indifference. There is an export balance of $1.5 billion. Yes, what can be done to Mersin? OSBs can be replicated; logistical village can be completed; city-connected roads can be made; Seka Port can be run by the state; Tourism Protection Development Region can be activated; Turkukova airport can be opened; Ceturova can be built as well; D-400, D-715 roads can be finished quickly; Yenice Logystic Center and Akkuyu Nuclear Plant can be completed; Tarsus Cotton Dam, Ercel Dam watering the Corridor Dam; Anamur Alakjuru watering the water; Akfat, Aksatıtın Bar, Açatı, and Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant can be completed as soon as possible. Also, the Grand City's Mezitli Gar Light Ray System... 337.5 million TL light rail systems can be completed. Friends, Mersin needs agricultural infrastructure investments; Mersin needs the state protection of its producers; lemons and banana producers are devastated. We've said this many times, they need attention. Treasures and public lands, forest areas are being looted, and Mersinite needs its own land. Mersin is a contributor to the state budget, friends, the sixth largest province, but he has never received the support he deserves from power. The AKP is punishing Mersin. If this goes on, Mersin will naturally punish the AKP; that's how it's known. Yes, as the 12th article that we're discussing, as the Court has just stated, this is a clause related to the external debt agreement and a $4.5 billion amount, which includes raising it to a level by the President. Bottom line: we're dealing with a waste and looting budget. We must never consent to the looting of this country's wealth, to the melting of our citizen's pennies in his pocket. So here's a picture that we're actually seeing: the AKP is on the side of the waste, on the side of the advocate. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0398par0078	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0397par0079	If there's a father who doesn't have the strength to walk down his street and come in, we're with him. When they say, "What do you do?," we are with young people who are crushed inside, who are not sleeping. We are the oppressed, the oppressed, the insecure woman; we are the workers, we are all on the side of this nation. As our president-in-chief, Mr. Coral Akşener, expressed in the economy about the AKP's stubbornness, I'm saying what a mistake it is, what an accident it is; it's simply the AKP's own choice. He's chosen to walk this dark path himself, and in the end, the AK PARTI power will pay the price. With these feelings, despite everything, I wish the budget well.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0399par0083	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Halil Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0400par0086	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 12 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute our valued viewers and the General Assembly, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Honourable MPs, because of the firm and strong stance of the Cumhur Alliance since it was founded, we see that the enemies of Turkey, too, want to break this strong stance from the inside and the outside. That is the main reason why anti-Turkey lobbyists want to deepen vulnerability in Turkey's economy and bring in an economic crisis scenario. In view of those who have met to defame the Cumhur Alliance and to wound it with political accounts, the PKK will be seen to have support from Western countries and from those Western countries in our country. In this regard, as one of the political parties that constitutes the Republic Alliance, in the coming period, it will be our main priority to contribute to further radicalisation and strengthening of the presidency's government system. Despite all efforts to block forces with hidden, hidden and evil intentions, Turkey has become the authority in its geography. In view of international developments under the roof of the Cumhur Alliance today, Turkey has continued to protect its blue homeland and its rights and interests in our heavens, it has carried out hydrocarbon searches in the Eastern Mediterranean, in search of the rights of our present and future generations, in which it has taken non-foretime search and research ships, in which it has secured the Turkish Republic, in the Black Sea, the discovery of new natural gas deposits, the discovery of drilling and testing wells, and the recent construction of pipelines in order to transport and transport the land of the continent, and thus securing the western borders of the region of the blue country in the United Nations, securing its access to the Turkish Republic, providing a key answer to Turkey's access to its non-regregregularity, the country's access to the region of Turkey, and the region of Turkey's access to the region of Turkey, and the region of the region of Turkey. On the other hand, in our borders with Iraq and Syria, it appears that the echo of the slap that we struck against the corridor of terror and even those who tried to form terrorist states is still in progress. We see that our clean-up operations following our actions continue with determination and heroism. The number of terrorists in the nation's homes represented by thousands has now become a face-to-face. It has to be known that no matter how much they provide weapons and ammunition support, our full struggle of PKK, YPG, DAEŞ, DHKP-C, or large-scale terrorist and criminal organizations will continue effectively and decisively until the last terrorist is neutralized. From here, every hero wishes our security forces strength, and I strongly express that we are always there for them. Respected lawmakers, Turkey's leap from industry to agriculture, economics to education, culture to national defence has continued in a more powerful way with the idea of the fully independent and global actor Turkey, the Cumhur Alliance. In this technological leap that changed not only the course of Turkish foreign policy, but also the outcome of our region and its vast environment, our drones and SIHA in particular played a major role and gave the world its name. Turkey, with its national technology move, has narrowed its external dependence on our defence industry in particular, and has met with the Turkish Armed Forces and the needs of all our security units by 80 per cent, with domestic and national possibilities. In this scope, developments such as our domestic production of drones and SIHAs, the national ship project MILGAM, ATAK and EKEY helicopter projects, the production of Machine and Chemical Industries, domestic and national weapons, the project of electric vehicles, the TOGG, the production of batteries with lithium ion technology continue to be dazzled. Behind all of these beautiful developments, the trust and strong support of our beloved nation's Republic alliance is essentially huge. In this regard, as the Cumhur Alliance, we will continue by God's will to show the world the power of Turkey's stable national policies based on Ankara. Dear lawmakers, we have not forgotten the assessment and plans of the United States President Biden (United States) on Turkey before he took office. Those who rely on Biden's promises, the so-called apostles of democracy who are waiting for hope, should listen and listen well: Turkey will always remain a democratic, secular, social law state; it will never be a headless, unmanageable, broken state. The Cumhur Alliance, which is aware of its plans for crisis and turmoil over Turkey, will never, ever give the subcontractors of this dirty alliance a chance. On the way to 2023, we need to know that the 2023 election is not just an election year, but, as we all know, the 100th anniversary of our republic. Our leader, Mr. State Gardener, stated from the beginning of the 1990s that the first turn to their destination was 2023, 2053, and 2071 was 2023. The horizon, established by our strong representative leader in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will draw today, and after the country's country of Turkey, the superpower will be a strong step towards Turkey's country. We're ready to take that step, and we're determined. We invite the Turkish nation to Turkey's great march, in action from the principle of the Prophet. As it was a hundred years ago today, for Turkey, which has categorically rejected its sense of historical manda and protection and thereby has not been guided by any country, we have solved the problem of terror at its root, completed its national defence move, and will continue to support Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has raised the groundbreaking prosperity level in education, technology and science, in the future with confidence and confidence. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Honourable MPs, we're not thinking about future elections, we're thinking about future generations. We only have strong Turkey in mind. We call it the Cumhur Alliance, and we believe that Turkey has visionary hope. On this occasion, the National Movement Party wishes the central management budget of 2022 to bring blessings to our nation and our country, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0401par0095	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Semra Nice. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0402par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute our precious people watching us on their screens and all the prisoners locked up in prisons. We too are resisting the colonial system, which is only conditioned for its own existence; its policies of oppression, persecution and torture. He said that because they were sick and were not evacuated yesterday, Abdulrezzak Shuyurun was released from the prison, and today, unfortunately, the funeral of Halil Sun has been released from prison. Rights violations in prisons continue to take lives. From here, we offer our condolences to the families, relatives, loved ones, and all our people who lost their lives. We promise them that we will continue until they win their resistance to this colonial system. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Yes, we were in the medical workers' statement today. For a living wage to reflect the pension of health workers who have been ignored, I also salute the cease-and-desist strike they've made today for human work and rest. Today, I'm going to talk to you briefly about how power is flying the economy through trustees and the crisis. In the past weeks, a helicopter track was built by Kayium in Diyarbakır Silvan in order to visit the home of an MKYK member after his visit to Batman, and the cost was paid to Diyarbakır people, where 1 out of 4 people were unemployed. But the President couldn't visit the family because his schedule wasn't up. So the helipad was built on a possibility. Do you have any idea how many families you might have had? Although if you were thinking about the public that much, you would start a small investigation into the corruption of trustees reflected in the Court's reports. According to the Court reports of 2020, the irregularities of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality are taking place. There's no way we can get all of them from here. So we're just going to talk about a few of them. The municipality's relocations have been assigned to foundations and associations. So you can guess which foundations and associations are only 2.667 from the 2.847 estate. If it's 180 levied with public taxes, it's unknown where it is. Again, mayoral workers who have been objecting to all corruption over the years have been unlawfully removed from their work with the KHKs because they are not from the AKP, while supporters from outside the province receive 3-4 salaries each month with the same irregularities. There's not a single procedure that's been done, even though these disgraces have been reflected in the press. Now, the Court reports also say that the municipality has been created with an illegal record of past wages. To whom did these extra wages have been written? As the people of Diyarbakir struggle with unemployment, poverty, the generosity of the trustee towards his own followers, frankly, fills the eye. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we don't see the same generosity for workers, workers, women, citizens. For months as the HDP Women's Assembly, we visited women who worked in the streets, in fields, in factories, who produced, talked, worked with them. Do you know why I'm going to talk about women in particular? Because the poverty of women is the shame of this country; no matter how hard they work, their labor has never been seen, nor has it ever been as hard as a man's labor. If you want to see what is the extent of women's poverty in Turkey today, go to a market after the markets are gathered and see women who are not sold there, who collect from under the counter, who are rotten, marketers, who can't buy diapers for their children, who wash and use old sheets at home. We've seen it, we've met women in 18 provinces, we've had conversations with each one of them. At four o'clock in the morning, we saw young women in Urbana and Mardin to pick pickle cucumbers, with their hands bruised in the heat of 45 degrees. I wanted to be a doctor, but I had to come to this field because my mother had diabetes and my father had heart disease. We saw young women who said, "Hope has been stolen." We've seen women who have to give away 15 liras of their 60 lira to their brokers. We've seen women who've been wronged, forced out of their jobs, expelled. Almost six to nine months of the year, we've seen seasonal farm workers who have to work in tents where a bath falls to 18 people, without electricity, without electricity, without humanity. When I was 55 years old, we saw women working for 30 TL for 11 hours, saying, "I have not built a tent, I have no water, I have come, and I have fallen in front of this bag of grapes. We've seen coaching women who can't even find a place to pitch a tent, who can't produce with the crossbow bans imposed on them because of ongoing security policies. Dear MPs, we're flying power, we're flying one by one. We know he's flying, he's not, but it's our advice, so he'll come down from time to time and see what's going on with these people. I don't know when you were last in the market. I'm a guy who does my shopping in the neighborhood markets. Tomatoes are now cheaper than markets for $7, peppers are $10, apples are $9, potatoes are $5, so a family of two can buy at least $200 a month, $800 a month. There's something flying, yes, but not economics, unfortunately, prices. Let's go to the store. Bulgur's weight is $15 a pound, lentils are $14, winters are essential, dry beans are $22, the cheapest shampoo is $20, basic hygiene products are Ped $30, and toilet paper is the last-day raise champion. Yeah, there's something flying, but it's not the economy, it's the prices. Of course, as these prices go up, there's something else that competes with toilet paper and flies; euros and dollars. Yeah, outside powers, right? They're jealous of us, dollars and euros are competing with us. You know, you're right about this: the price doesn't go up to our speed and the euros don't. In October alone, chicken increased by 64 per cent, sunflower by 60 per cent, lentil by 41 per cent, milk and yogurt by 35 per cent, and chickpea by 34 per cent. There's something flying, yes, not economics, prices. Look, the price of flour has increased 400 percent in three years. The price of the bread, which was $2 last year, is now up to $3.5, and new prices are being discussed. That's how people wait in hundreds of yards of queues at the People's Bread Bars to buy cheaper bread. This photo is your shame mug shot, not the economy's war of salvation, but the war you've opened to the public. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Of course, as if there are no increases in all these prices, there's an institution like the TİK, which makes it his job to store data, not to share data as if it's not a citizen's market, grocery store, not to see it. Because the TÜİK has become the information center of power, its inflation rate has increased by 21 per cent compared to last year's November, but the Inflation Research Group, founded by competent economists, did you know what the TÜİK said about this data? It's not true. He said that inflation increased 58.6 percent compared to last year's November. Again, TÜİK showed inflation increased by 3.5 years in November compared to the previous month, but the research group also called this a lie, saying that the inflation of November increased 9.9 compared to October. We're flying, we're flying, yes, but we're flying beautifully, but TİK is flying low because it shows little data. (Growls, applause) But with these numbers, neither space nor we are flying to the end of the black hole. If this budget passes, you should see the flight next year. As of 2022, taxes, penalties, tuitions will increase by 36.2%. At the moment, 822 liras for a Class B driver's license will be paid 1.116 lira in 2022. The payment for a passport issued from three to ten years is $1.008 to $1.478; we're flying really well! Our plane ticket has already been published in the Official Gazette, and may it be a blessing. And of course, there are people who are high on powdered sugar that the coins go to, and we're really curious to know how you're going to find a way to launder it. It's powdered sugar. Although, you'll find a way; it's your job to build a road. Dear lawmakers, we've flown the ruling economy, we've flown it. He says this flight will have a hard landing. And this is the power that chose the landing site as the moon. He destroyed this geography, and sold the mountain, and the stone, and the land, and came to the moon. We didn't want to be in the place of the moon, and this time he's going to lose his balance. So why don't you take those of you who gave you the idea of flying in the economy, even the economics book that you wrote, fly, but don't land yeast on the moon, get lost in space, so that these people can get rid of you. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We've really flown this thing. We've flown the stories, the economy. Stop believing what they're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0403par0116	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0402par0117	We really would have flown this plane now. We've flown the stories, the economy. Let's put aside the words. Our people are mocking us now. They're rioting. But don't worry, our people have already cut off your one-way flight ticket. In the first election, you'll get your ticket, and we'll call you after you................................................................................
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0403par0119	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Muharrem Man. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0404par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we must always speak loud and clear on this stand, and we must speak the truth, and I want to make it very clear that today, unfortunately, the Presidential government system and the palace government have sunk the country. Yeah, that's the truth, you ruined the country. With the most severe economic depression in history, you have left society to face with great unemployment, deep poverty, inflation. How could you not be? Look, the Central Bank will decide on interest tomorrow; today Mr. Seyidullah Nebati, the brother of the Treasury and Finance Minister, explains that tomorrow the Central Bank must pass, but my guess is that they will reduce interest by one point. Well, I'm afraid you've created a painting like this. The brother of the Treasury and Finance Minister, who said so, is likely to have a decision made by the Central Bank tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm afraid the budget we discussed today has no meaning. Because when the palace submitted the executive budget to the Parliament, the dollar was $9, so it's up to $15 today, and you're probably prepping the additional budget, by the way. How did we get here? The problem is the valuable lawmakers in the system. Look, I'm going to make a reminder from 2014. On May 12, 2014, what did Hero Bulut, who is today the economist of the palace, say? If every citizen's presence is to be at least three times as high, the presidential system must be the first must. The citizen's presence has not increased, but really no one knows how many times the assets of those who run Turkey have increased because politics has become a means of enrichment, political morality has, unfortunately, collapsed. You've already moved on to this one-man system in 2014. During the period of the State of Emergency, you took the opportunity and passed the country legally in April 2017, and unfortunately with this system, Turkey is driven to a cliff like a truck with 83 million brakes exploded. Dear lawmakers, as these words are spoken, one Bulgarian leva was $1.00 while the presidential system was being beautified, and today one Bulgarian leva is $8.8. Look at what you've done with the country. Nobody gets paid by dollars, but everything a citizen gets is indexed to dollars, everything. Do you know how much the minimum wage is in the poor African continent, in the financial community, in Tanzania? $200 is an average of $400 in poor African countries, in Mali, in Tanzania, in the Turkish Republics of Central Asia. How much is Turkey today? As of now, $190, maybe $150 tomorrow. You raise the minimum wage, but first fight the real danger of inflation, the cost of life, because that's the real danger. You're dealing with interest, people's buying power has melted. What was saying Mr. Erdogan, Mr. President, what was your commitment to the nation: that the national income per person will be $25,000 per person in 2023. This was your commitment, not your commitment, not your rhetoric. What happened? Where did we come from? Because it's the system. Even our Central Bank, the Central Bank, unfortunately you've brought it to the point of bankruptcy, and there's something very painful -- the ones who are ruining the economy today, the ones responsible for the heavy economic crisis, the ones who created this economic picture with their own flaws, unfortunately, what are they saying in the halls of the palace today? ▪ The State of Emergency can be declared due to heavy economic depression, so prepare yourself. • Why? Does the Constitution authorise this? You're gonna screw it up yourself, then you're gonna declare it a state of affairs. Why don't you think about resigning and think about the State of Emergency? You're in charge, you screwed up the economy. When you said: "I am responsible for this economy." E, then resign, resign, the country will go to the elections or the Parliament will vote. The State of Emergency or the State of Emergency or the Choice? Which one's in favor of the citizen, which one? Look, it's stated here that mothers and fathers are attempting to steal baby food in the markets. Isn't that a sad picture? To buy bread for $1.25, pensioners wait in line for miles to buy bread. People are crying, crying; this is the truth of Turkey. There are students in schools, in classrooms who faint because of hunger. Who's responsible for this painting, external forces? Stories for the grown-ups, facts for the little ones, isn't that nice? Great, now the State of Emergency. Yeah, we don't need the State of Emergency, we need democracy, we need law, we need freedom. We need trust and political stability, not the State of Emergency. If this is said consciously, it is ignorance, ignorance, and betrayal of Turkey. Instead of thinking about the State of Emergency, come, bring the ark, and fear not the people. This system also brought down the democratic state of law, the presidential government system. Students are still in prison, academics, journalists, politicians in prison, two students studying in Boğaziçide are still in prison. Why? They've been acting. You can't even stand young people anymore, you've even made young people terrorists. Our Istanbul Mayor -- you lost Istanbul, what a grudge and revenge -- has been sentenced to a total of ten years in prison from five separate cases, waiting in the Supreme Court. That's not enough, but four ongoing investigations today, three criminal cases, three lawsuits, and $1,400,000. Yeah, what fear is that? You've lost Istanbul, and you know what will happen in the first election, Mr. President told me. Only the precious lawmakers, without justice, the mind does not consult the conscience, compassion stays away from the mind, far away.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0405par0128	Tell me about the 20,000 workers you put at the door at Istanbul City Hall.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0404par0129	Look, it's 1998, your President Erdogan -- the head of Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor -- was sentenced to prison for incitement to hatred and hostility, the Supreme Court approved it, didn't it? Then the American consul visited him, and he and the American consul were critical of the Turkish judiciary's decision. We criticized it; it's not true. Then it's my judgment. I'm with my government, it's okay. He didn't say. He also held a press conference with the American consul. He applied to the European Court of Human Rights three times, three times. Now, what does he say today? I don't know the decision of the ECHR, I don't know the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0405par0130	Political decision...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0404par0131	You may not like the Constitutional Court's decision, but you can't say you don't. "I don't know" means I don't know the legal state. When you don't know the legal state, look at it like this; see the state of the dollar, the state of the country. We were talking about $10 a dollar, and now we wish we had $10. What you've done to the country, I'm afraid. Now, what did Erdogan say in your election declarations before? ▪ We are making reforms based on universal law, the decisions of the ECHR. Our road map is the European standard. I guess now it's the African league, Central Asian league. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me tell you something very sincere, the word of the Nobel Peace Prize winner, Elie Wiesel, is a beautiful word. There may be times when we do not have the power to prevent injustice, but there must never be a time when we cannot object to injustice. At least object, you can't prevent injustice, at least object, but you can't, because there is a truth, like everyone else, you're under the guardianship of the palace. We're facing heavy custody. And a lesson from history: Solon, who made the Constitution and laws of the city of Athens; you know, a statesman and a poet. He leaves Athens to be no tyrant, goes to Egypt, goes to Cyprus, then comes to Anatolia, then builds a city in Sicily. He's moving the Athens people and his countrymen to this city. Next thing you know, time goes by, the guy who runs the city is a tyrant, a dictator. He calls to the Athensites, saying: "If you are suffering a great deal today, do not blame it on your gods. Accept the mistake you made. You gave some of them such great power that you allowed them to wear the yoke of absolute obedience upon your neck, and you fell for the sweet words of a man who lied to you, and ignored their wickedness.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0406par0134	Mr. Kilicdaroglu describes him.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0404par0135	These words, spoken 2,500 years ago, have come to mind for some reason today. We had to say it from here. It's a good lesson in history. Dear lawmakers, the system is bankrupt, and you are bankrupt, and the palace's government is bankrupt. Never forget that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0407par0138	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0404par0139	Dear lawmakers, we need a new system. We need strong rules, strong institutions, strong staff. If you leave power to one person, the result is obvious. Citizen bleeds, blood, because of you, because you've still imposed and supported this freaking system. We need a new system, but no one has to worry, no one has to be desperate. We're going to change this one-man system and this unfair order in the first election.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0408par0140	In your dreams.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0404par0141	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0409par0143	Yes, word requests have been met on behalf of the groups. Now, the first word on his behalf is Mr. Hülya Nargis. Mr. Nargis, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0410par0146	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our esteemed ministers, I have taken my word on the 12th article of the Central Management Budget Law of 2022. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screens. We are now a country that has a power over global issues, not just regionals, following a broad and interactive foreign policy in a multidimensional geography filled with serious tests. We apply effective diplomacy to protect our national interests, to ensure our nation's peace, security, and prosperity. We make our country strong on the field and on the table with entrepreneurial and humanitarian foreign policy. With our 253 diplomatic missions, we're all over the world. The depth of our ancient civilization and its ability to communicate at the same time as different civilizations are giving us a very different horizon in foreign policy. Thus, Turkish diplomacy became one of the powerful actors in the search for solutions to global tensions. Members of parliament, all the economic areas needed during the continuation of the devastating effects of the outbreak have been supported, and the total support for the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic has reached 718 billion euros. This number corresponds to 14 per cent of the illegitimate domestic product. The Turkovac vaccine, developed within our Ercices University, has also reached the production stage. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the pandemic process, agricultural support is being maintained, while the income tax has been lifted from the supports, and cuts over the past five years will be returned. The income of 835,000 simple tax-taxed tradesmen has been exempted from taxes. The interest rates of loans used by shopkeepers and artists have been reduced from 47 per cent to 9.5 per cent. With 1.8 per cent growth in the pandemic process, we became one of the two countries that could grow in the world along with the G20 countries. In the first quarter of 2021, we produced 7.2% and 21.7% growth in the second quarter. In 2021, we complete with a total of 10 percent growth. As a country, we've achieved record levels in export revenues, and we've managed to increase our exports to over 210 billion dollars. We have increased human strength in defense and security, and as a result of investments in the development of defence industry, we have been able to produce and export a significant portion of critical weapons systems. As a result, domestic and national production has reached 80 per cent, while domestic engine mass production has also begun. We're in the top three countries in the world in the production of drones. We're among the top 10 countries that can drill deep seas. Members of lawmakers, we stand by our citizens with our holistic and fair social services models and social assistance programmes for the protection and strengthening of individuals, family and social values. Our Ministry of Family and Social Services continues its supply-oriented work through 375 social services centres. Respected lawmakers, our Ministry of Tourism continues to work in many ways to transform our country's tourism potential into an economic power, which is almost an open-air museum in each corner. As we look at the late November data, the number of tourists is estimated to increase by 40 to 60 per cent in Europe, with a rise of 83 per cent in Turkey and 29m tourists. The income is also expected to increase by 100 per cent, and 24 billion dollars are expected. For 20 years, our people have trusted us and supported us, and we have tried to be worthy of that trust. In this country, there is a problem of opposition, not power, because the opposition has a policy on lying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0411par0156	Look at him lie, even this minute...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0412par0157	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0410par0158	It's not constructive, it's destructive politics, but it has to be known that common sense will prevail again as before, and I wish the budget of 2022 would be a blessing for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0412par0160	Second word for the individuals, Mr. Yunus Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0413par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Of course, we're discussing budgets in a very comprehensive economic crisis. Again, in this environment, there's been a significant change in economics, a change in Ministerial Affairs. The Minister's statement has been published in the press these days. He says, Mr. Secretary: I say to them: You get paid, what do you lose the most? You'll be crushed under inflation, but I'll lose my entire existence. Now, when I heard that explanation, I wasn't sure first, so I thought, "I don't think a Minister said something like that." I thought, again, I thought, there was a mistake, I checked it out, and I saw the Minister say that. My dear friends, this is really embarrassing. There's a minister who doesn't know what pain our citizens are facing. Well, shame on you! [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Dear friends, look, how can it be considered the same thing when a wealthy minister loses his presence and a mother loses a father's job, his salary? What if a mother loses a father's salary, she can't pay her rent?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0414par0168	Yeah, he didn't mention personal presence. Yunus Emre...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0413par0169	If a parent loses his salary, he can't buy medicine for his sick mother, take his fevered baby to a doctor, not a notebook, not a pencil for his child. But how can a minister go out in the middle and compare his presence, his wealth, a mother's salary, a father's salary, a pensioner's salary? My dear friends, I mean, think about what that parent is doing with his salary. Is Spain going on vacation, for God's sake? He's fighting for his life. Yeah, how can a minister compare that to his own fortune? I mean, I want to ask you, who's got the state in this country? How can the person we're entrusting the government's safe be able to say that? Our nation has a prayer, and they say, "God forbid the state should die. You've made the state this way, shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0414par0171	Yeah, well, you got this guy off the road, too.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0413par0172	And then Mr. Secretary explains the economic model, and look, I want your attention, Mr. Minister's economic model: I'd be upset if I didn't. Look, the Minister of Economy's economic model: I'd be upset if I didn't. Here's your view: we're going to reduce the central bank interest, the dollar is going to go up dry; when the dollar goes up dry, the economy will recover, until it goes up to $14-15. Friends, don't work on your hands, give up the 15 liras, make it 50 liras, make it 100 liras, make it a thousand liras, make it 5,000 liras. Let the people come to $100 to take the trucks from Turkey and the goods to their homeland. Ya, here, in Poland, just yesterday, a farmer says: "Ya, in my hometown, the acres of the field are ten thousand liras, and the sack of fertilizer are 15,000 liras! You made it this way, you made it this way. My dear friends, but what is it? The minister would be upset, and if he didn't, he'd be upset. Yeah, I'd like to ask you, what's this obsession? That's what we're hearing from the Minister of Economics, and we don't hear from a ganarian brother in Velodrome, and he's talking about getting the Minister of Economy. Mr. President, of course, is in the same mind; he's a stickler. Every three months, every six months, he changes the president of the Central Bank, the minister changes it, he doesn't get it at all. My dear friends, we're dealing with an economic management, a government of Turkey that's interested in building. Now, for example, let me give you an example of what you're missing. In your time, five times in the last five years, the president of the Central Bank has changed. Yeah, 5 presidents in 30 years, 5 presidents in the last five years. Before I came, I looked at the central bank of Germany -- a bank of six years -- in sixty-three years. American Federal Reserve -- that system that's a hundred and ten years old -- has been replaced by 16 presidents. What's the matter with you, why do you change so many presidents in five years and what happens when you change it? When you first changed the dollar, it was at a price of $2.8; in your 2nd amendment, it jumped to 5.6, followed by Naci Ağbal, and the dollar was dry 8.5. He stayed four months; he dropped it for $7.2, of course, he was targeted for you, so you threw him out. After that, Shahap Kavacıoğlu broke all the records, and in nine months, $7 is $114. This is the result of the system you call flying the country. But the Minister still talks about giving us a hard time. Yeah, well, you've already got it right, you've made the country look like this. What are you gonna hold on to?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0415par0177	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0413par0178	I am, Mr. President. My dear friends, poverty, unemployment, the cost of living, the creditors, they're hurting the citizen. Our money's been made, our citizens are ruined, dear friends. For one thing, my advice to you is to get out of this 6-alarm curiosity, quantitative lottery curiosity. Seek the policies proposed by serious economists in the world. And of course, you've removed Turkey from democracy in the first place, you've created a single man's regime in Turkey, the basis of the economic problems we face is this change, dear friends, Turkey's withdrawal from democracy. Because Turkey is away from democracy, people who have nothing to do with the economy in this way, who have nothing to do with professional life or political life, come to the top of Turkey's economy as a super minister, and Turkey has this sad view. And the solution they're offering, I'd be sorry if I didn't. Mr. President, thank you again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0416par0182	Talks on Article 12 have been completed. No question process, no answer process. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Other provisions concerning income and expenses ADADDE 13- (1) 22/2/2005 loans to the first article (f) of Article 51 of the State Special Administration Law (f) dated 3/7/2005 and the first joke (f) of Article 5393 of the City Code 5393 (f) shall be accounted for under the account of the interest of the state private administrations and municipalities which require advanced technology and large-sized infrastructure investments and projects adopted by the President (d) of Article 51 (d) and Article 5393 of the First Article 51 of the Law (d). However, loans to finance projects supported by its private administrations, municipalities and companies with more than 50 per cent of its capital are not required by companies supported by the European Union within the framework of pre-accession fiscal co-operation, by multilateral investment and development banks and loans directly from foreign state institutions or through the County Bank Anonim Corporation and loans from the County Bank Anonim Corporation for jobs under SDUAP. (2) The Treasury and Finance Minister, the Treasury and Finance Minister, who are responsible for the State accounts of the Bank's political risk, and the Bank's operational profits, which correspond to the Treasury's collections, and all of its outstanding reserve statements, or some of its outstanding benchmarks, rather than the Bank's political risk, are entitled to record them into the budget, according to the nature of the Bank's transactions. (3) The institutional revenues specified in the legislation of the Law No. 5018 and the general budget of those covered before 2006 are collected as general budget revenues. The first word on Article 13 is for Mr. Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0417par0193	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from Mr. Secretary, Mr. President of the Commission, the great Turkish nation; my party on Article 13 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you all. Democracy is a system of governance revealed by the human mind. Modern, universal democracy has been achieved through lessons from mistakes and the experience of centuries. The principles of democracy have been developed through long experiences, by resolving shortcomings. One of the most important principles of democracy is that the presidency is neutral and partyless. In advanced democracies, this situation is considered a firm principle. The neutral head of state has been strengthened by absolute irresponsibility in modern constitutions. The reason for this is to ensure that the head of state can act objectively and effectively in conflict between the government and parliament or political parties. The presidency is the most important political office according to our Constitution; the presidency is the largest of all Turkish nations. The president should be a hugger, not a segregator. It's natural for people to turn to different parties in democracy, but the President can't put his weight on the side of one of these parties and discredit the others. Unfortunately, today, in our country, the president of a political party sits in the office of the president, always bringing his own party forward, insulting other parties. The head of state, who needs to integrate the people, is disseminating the people. For these reasons, the public does not like this practice. Thus, all polls have negative results on the system, and Turkish democracy is experiencing a major conflict. We have beautiful proverbs, and one of them does not lift this weight, this scale. The 13th article, which we are discussing, aims to include the amount of debt for projects adopted by the President in municipal private administrations and municipalities, which require advanced technology and large amount of financial resources, to calculate the debt limit, including interest of those administrations. The desire and expectation of our citizens from the President is that the projects presented to his approval are not based on the party emblems, but on the quality and nature of the project. Otherwise, all our citizens in that area are victims, causing the citizen's relationship with the state to weaken. For example, the fact that the demand to borrow 300 new buses to the mayor of Istanbul has so far not only been accepted by citizens who voted for one political party, but all seven to 70 people living in Istanbul have been victimised. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, under the leadership of our President, Mr. Coral Akshener Ma'am, we have seen the motions that we have submitted to the Plan and Budget Commission bring rejection politics into effect. What did the Cumhur Alliance reject? If you say: "We offered the budget an additional $7 billion 250 million to implement the promise of an additional 3,600 indicators, which was rejected. We have offered $45 billion additional budgets for our citizens of YIT, and the Cumhur Alliance has been rejected by votes. For our COSGEB budgets, we offered additional $10 billion; the Cumhur Alliance was rejected by votes. According to the terms of the minimum wage -- which changed a lot today -- we offered the budget an additional $30 billion to make it at least $4,000; the Cumhur Alliance was rejected by votes. We offered an additional $28 billion $200 million to increase agricultural support payments, which was rejected. We offered our 1 million students an additional $8 billion 500 million for a $1,000 grant a month; the Cumhur Alliance was rejected by votes. We offered the budget additional $6 billion 250 million for the appointment of 50,000 teachers, which unfortunately was rejected by the Cumhur Alliance. We've offered $50 million for additional RD incentives for high-tech production and $3 billion for other incentives; the Cumhur Alliance has been rejected by votes. We have offered an additional $800m for 10 new fire extinguishers; the Cumhur Alliance has been rejected by votes. We have offered additional $10 billion to the budget for the cost of 2 million,600,000 babies' diapers and food, which is unacceptable. We offered the budget an additional $20 billion for the monthly salary of our disabled citizens; the Cumhur Alliance was rejected by votes. In order to end women's poverty, we offered $10 billion additional to the budget, which was not accepted. We offered additional $5 billion $500 million to the budget to increase support for martyr families, veterans, and relatives; it was rejected. In winter, we offered additional $5 billion in the budget to cover the heating costs of 2 million families throughout the winter; the Cumhur Alliance was rejected by vote. We offered an additional $350m to the budget for the martyr families and veterans to become hosts with TOKI; the Cumhur Alliance was rejected by vote. We offered the budget an additional $25 billion to remedy what the tradesmen and artists experienced in the pandemic; the Cumhur Alliance was rejected by vote. We offered additional $5 billion to the budget for the appointment of 50,000 of our health workers, which unfortunately was rejected by the Cumhur Alliance's votes. You rejected them, and the Turkish nation will reject you in the first election. You refuse, the president's word is our word, we're ready with our projects and staff. We solve these problems, these problems, and let the great Turkish nation trust us, rest assured, the staff of the HRP is waiting duty and duty to resolve them. Mr. President, as you all know, the esteemed lawmakers have either given up some of the bread or had to plant three bags of fertilizer when they were supposed to dump 10 bags of fertilizer because the farmer was so expensive to plant in the fall. In the spring, these fields will be sown with urethra, and new plantations will still need DAP fertilizer. Today, the DAP today exceeds 15,000 liras of fertilizer, 14 thousand liras of fertilizer, and a thousand liras of diesel. If the government cannot find a solution to this fertilizer problem and fuel, I regret to say that Turkey expects poverty and poverty. The policy grant that Mr. President has announced to our citizens over and over as good news has never been paid. Again -- from this Parliament -- there will be a refund for taxes on the support of the farmers. Unfortunately, it has not been paid until now. So your promises to the water don't fill your bellies, says the citizen. The hole in the pocket, the hole in the pocket; the empty pot does not boil. And you know what it says about your citizen economic policy again? It's like a foreign song, we listen, but we don't understand what they're saying. The possibility of an AK PARTY, which has been unresolved for the past 20 years, has now disappeared. No one's ever tied their hands until today. Why have they not healed our sorrows, and why have they not healed our wounds? That doesn't make any sense at this time.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0418par0199	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0417par0200	From now on, your commitments, your commitments, your declarations that the Turkish economy will improve, are not much in return for the citizens. Hopefully, in the first election, we'll have the confidence of our citizens and the confidence of the good Party, which has given the Turkish nation confidence so far, to solve these problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0418par0203	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Abdurrahman is the President. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0419par0206	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on Article 13 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, and I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. Before I begin my words, Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu, the beloved brother of Kalyoncu, who passed away yesterday, Ismail Hakk Kalyoncu, God's mercy and my condolences to the Kalyoncu family, especially our brother Hasan. Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu was supposed to have this conversation today. Since he was not among us to fulfill his last assignment to his brother, we were appointed to address the General Assembly instead of him. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today is the tenth day of our 2022 budget talks, which began on December 6th. We've come to this day without ruining the glory of our great House, and I hope we'll complete the remaining negotiations in this exhausting budget marathon, even though there are occasional strains from fatigue. Dear President, dear lawmakers, as our President, Mr. State Gardener, has pointed out, we present examples of constructive and guiding opposition as the National Movement Party. We see and show both the services, the efforts, and the shortcomings. We're just conducting a policy that presents solutions to these problems by predicting future problems without a vicious cycle around current problems. A viable and sustainable environmental policy will be the most important legacy for us today, for tomorrow's future generations. In our nationalism, environmentalism is one of the main axes. The environment is the face of humanity, the calling for civility. The environment is also a homeland. Respect for the environment is the first condition of a peaceful and happy life. With that understanding, we as the MHP have proposed solutions in many areas, including measures against ecosystem changes, in the expansion of closed and pressurized systems for watering plants, in the underlying dams, rainwater harvest and climate change. And I want to say here that many of these suggestions have been implemented. For example, good work continues to prevent partitioning the natural environment through ecological passages on highways. That's how our creatures survived being wiped out on the highways. In addition, it has been a crucial step towards the future of our country to make it necessary to store rainwater in new construction sites of a certain size. These suggestions will help minimize the impact of climate change and similar global disasters, such as Covid-19, as well as measures to prevent future problems for our country. Dear lawmakers, investments made by local governments must be planned by keeping an eye on the green. For the best example, we can also give you the Korkeli Sýppark Project, which was carried out on 457 acres by our municipality of Korkeli in just a hundred and two days. It is very important for investments to be forwarded to low-emission technological applications, both open to digitalization, innovation, and against climate change effects. In order to make our cities resistant to increasing environmental disasters, municipalities must fulfill their responsibilities. In response to climate change, municipalities should prioritize infrastructure investments, sewers and rainwater systems should separate from each other, separate solid waste from the source in order to maximum recycle waste, move to regular storage in waste storage areas. In urban donuts, parks and green areas, smart irrigation techniques and restored water should be used. The fact that the roofs of buildings, signs and antennas are resistant to violent weather has now become urgent because many of our citizens have either been injured or lost their lives because of it. Turkey's Green Development Revolution, published by the presidency, and Turkey's 2053 vision of fighting climate change was presented in a comprehensive and healthy frame. As an agricultural engineer, I would like to point out that the first threat of global warming will be water sources, agriculture and livestock sectors. Moving from here, a green economic-based restructuring model in the presidential vision document is promising, green new order. In order to implement the green economy, the private sector must lay its hands on the stone along with government and local governments. It is also important that the Metropolitan Law and municipal Laws be regulated and sanctioned. Mr. President, good lawmakers, climate change took place in one day, and it's not a surprise. At the coming point, we can't just close our eyes and let it get to a place where we can't get past the problems. These problems are the work of a production wheel that contaminates the soil, air and water of developed industrial countries, but all human beings live together. The responsibility of the fight is largely on the back of developed countries. Because the activities of these countries are still polluting. Sneaky attempts are going on, trying to put the problems of the environmental greed of production on the shoulders of the countries outside them, as well as the Green Covenant texts. The Green Covenant should be considered the responsibility of the developed countries for the financial costs of green economy and environmentally friendly production and the transfer of free technology. I would also like to say here that we have found our country's attitude and arguments at the conferences of parties correct and that the Paris Agreement must first be implemented by pollutant countries. Because whoever soils the most will pay the price. As the Republic of Turkey, you are aware that our share of carbon emissions and our contribution to historical responsibility are neglectable on a global scale. What's important to us from this point on is what the measures we're going to take against change are going to be. What's more important than the reduction of emissions -- our country's disasters, droughts -- are efforts to reduce the impact of changes in the ecosystem, invasive species, pathogens on water resources and agriculture. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we Turks consider man a part of nature, not a part of nature. Earth and water are blessed creatures. It hasn't been contaminated. It's been recorded since the stones that have to be preserved. In the Ash Tigin Books, the blue sky at the top was described as the creation of man in between when the ground was created, with no rain on the bottom. Nature itself is alive and is the source of life. Turkish people also think that land, water, plants, and animals have spirit. With that understanding, one must live in harmony with everything that exists in the universe. This approach will prevent global warming and allow the soiled world to breathe. With such thoughts, the financial budget must be budgeted, as well as our environment. The cost column of the environmental budget must be viewed as the destruction of our future and must be dealt with to restore the natural balance. It is necessary for municipalities to minimize the number of missing fugitives under water management, focus on practices such as urban heat islands to balance with green fields, rain harvest, treatment facilities and infrastructure measures. I want to rephrase the importance of government officials' plans for water management on the country's scale, their steps in protecting and developing our water resources. Even if you know that the Apocalypse is coming tomorrow, plant your plant today. I wish to complete my words with the rivet, and to bless the budget of the year 2022, and to salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0420par0219	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Habip is missing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0421par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and our peoples. Once again, we send greetings to all our political comrades trapped in prison. At the same time, I salute the physicians and health workers who are fighting for their rights once again. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers have already melted 50 per cent of the currency from the budget, the Plan and Budget Commission to the General Board; the TL is melting more and more every day. Look, even a Nahchivan is $8.3, and they can come up with 100 meanings and buy bags at Iğdır. But when you look at the state our people are in, they're in the line of bread. Look, you know what the Nahchivans say? Our stamp here is gilded. We love it. We'll come, we'll take what we want, and that's what the AKP's doing to the public, I'm afraid. Dear lawmakers, hundreds of thousands of people can't bring bread to their homes, they can't find work, but the ISKUR administrations have turned into AKP torpedo centres. For that reason, we need to change the names of the ISKUR administrations to the "ka torpedo centers." Again, there used to be the AKP's partner, his life partner, his brother,..... go, get a reference from.., take a job as a civil servant............ the AKP used to say........ Now we've got the flash of Å, the imitation TUGVA. The AKP says, "Go, put the money in TUGVA; come, you'll get it." Unfortunately, it says. So, once again, we call on our young people here: the young, the torpedo AKP is leaving; the People's Democratic Party, which will provide equality, justice, is coming to blows. Hundreds of thousands of people were out of business with the KHKs, AKP President came out, and said: "Let them eat tree bark." Unfortunately, what we have come to today is the point where the whole country is forced to eat bark. In that respect, let not those who are expelled under the decree of the law wonder; they shall all return to work, and they shall all be justified. Corruptions became public during the AKP period. The Department of Youth and Sports County in Iğdır is bidding for 20 million dollars, the grandstand's tender. Five companies are being called in. There is no earthquake, no disaster, no fire, no war, but there is a tender for 21/b. Four companies are called AKP executives' companies, one is the AKP's brother's company. Guess who's getting the contract? Four companies are giving thanks, and the company owned by the AKP County Mayor's brother is pocketing 20 million dollars in tenders. Talan is scattered all over the country, but the most brazen of all is our municipalities, where the will of the people has been stolen, where the trustees have seized it. Look, the trustee in Iğdır can rent an Iğdır animal market to a AKP business person for 25 years, we don't even know how much. In the tenders, the officers wanted doctors to go around asking for reports so they wouldn't sign irregularities because they know very well that signing the AKP's irregularities could cause them not to see the light of day tomorrow. They know that from that point of view, those who wish to pass the tender by bargaining today will negotiate tomorrow to become a confessor. The colonial governors, these trustees... you're looking at the trustee at Iğdır. He's building a $70,000 flag post for the City Security Directorate, covering the 57,000 square-metre tender wall in the province of the Gendarme Command from the sources of the City of Iğdır. It's his father's property. He's the governor of the colony. He gives what he wants. But I swear to you, we, the HDP, will answer for all these irregularities one by one, and they will not think that they will escape. [[Applause from HDP rows]] These colonial governors are doing everything they can to make these cities look colonized, occupied. You're looking at search points with high concrete blocks, armored vehicles, long-barreled weapons at the entrance of cities; almost every city, every town, every town, even villages, they'll build houses in front of them if they can. Why? Because they want to make a colonial logic look like an invasion. These trustees, these colonial governors, who have done all the irregularities, all the illegalities they can to make this invasion look, unfortunately, they can do everything they can. When we ask the AKP, they turn and say, "Our brother, he will do all kinds of violence, he will run colonial law against Kurdish, he will rule against enemy law, he will say, "We are brothers or brothers, we are not fleshless." For some reason, Kurds are always shredded and cut. I'm sorry, gentlemen, the AKP is a Kurdish enemy, the AKP is an enemy of Kurdish language. In that sense, we say once again: Kurds want to be equal citizens, not brothers; Kurds want to be equal citizens, not flesh and nails. Again, you see, these colonial governors can do anything they want. They can ask for armored vehicles to tour the cities every ten minutes. These armored vehicles can crush people, killing dozens of people, children, women. These armored vehicles can kill you, even if you sit at home, where it's seen as a colony; they can penetrate the wall and kill the two children there. We know very well that way. We're brothers, we're meatless. The bullshit is no longer something we can eat. In Siirt, Cemil Tasketsen said: "The Kurds are being wronged. This is Kurdistan, where you are, in history. He said, the house of AKP's colonial governors was raided at dawn, taken into custody at dawn, and we were all tried to be feared to avoid these concepts, but we all know very well -- so many times in this parliament -- the name of that land is Kurdistan; your president said, as well as the Prime Minister of the period said. Look, you can't get out of these areas where the AKP's colonial governors are persecuted and bullied, even if you leave the cities. The Dedeoglu family from Kars emigrated and came to Ionya, but the whole family was massacred fascistally because Kurds had a colonial understanding of Kurdish itself, not just geography. Deniz Poyraz was brutally murdered only because he was found in the town hall of a party defending the rights of Kurds. If you ask the AKP why this massacre wasn't stopped, they'll say, "We're brothers, we're meatless." But everyone knows it's bullshit, it's metaphoric bullshit, and the AKP is a Kurdish enemy. In that sense, we want to make it clear once again that the Kurds want to be equal citizens, not brothers.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0422par0238	You're the enemy, you're the enemy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0423par0239	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0421par0240	We Kurds want to be seen as equal citizens in the country we built together in 1923, not in a place where our streams, our plains, our cities are colonized.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0422par0241	Let's fight the PKK together. Say it, say it, and we'll stand up together, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0421par0242	Let's just say that as Peoples' Democratic Party, we will create a common life where Kurdish, Turkish, Azerbaijan, Çerkek, Terekeme, Alevi, Sunni, everyone is considered equal, and we will surely succeed. And with the words of Yilmaz South, I want to finish my words: We will win, we will win, we will win! (...) [[x]] I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0424par0246	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Veli Ağbaba. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0425par0249	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is the picture that I just put in front of the podium, the picture of Turkey, the picture of Turkey; on the one hand it's flashy, and on the other it's misery. Dear MPs, we are going to make Turkey a world giant. Those who say, "We will be servants of this nation." Those who say, unfortunately, "We are leaders of the world." Those who say, "We are leaders of the world." Unfortunately, Turkey is on the fast track to make its workers slaves of the world. They advertise to the world that we are a cheap labor force paradise. They boast of our laborer's sweat, that they will make our workers work for the cheapest sweat in the world, that they will work like slaves for food. Look, let's compare, dear friends: With today's pitch, a minimum wage worker in Turkey receives only 88 cents and only 88 cents for an hour's work. In the past, examples were given to show that workers were enslaved; a worker in China worked for a dollar. It was said that China used to be condemned; why was Chinese goods cheap? In China, labor was cheap. But at the end of the 19 years, where we came from, our worker could eat less than Chinese workers and earn less than Chinese workers. Dear friends, let's look at Germany, which is jealous of us. Germany pays a minimum wage $11 for an hour's work, so it's 12 times ours. He's giving $12.5 to an English worker, 14 times ours. So let me put it in terms that you understand. Hans in Germany has 12 times the sweat of Hasan in Turkey. Mary's sweat in England is 14 times Mary's sweat. That's the order you're bragging about. (Applause) You've turned the Turkish worker into a slave. You turned the Turkish worker into a slave to the world. Who turned it? The most national and domestic. Dear friends, I'll tell you something else, something worse. In the past, there were people who worked in markets, who worked with arms and back power, even they were unemployed, and even the porters were unemployed. And even more painfully, we still have about 10 million well-defined unemployed people looking for work under these circumstances. Why? Because there are tens of thousands of migrant workers who will work half of those conditions unsecured. Dear friends, we've seen Turkey's situation in minimum wage terms, and let's look at it in terms of pensioners. Dear friends, look at this painting. One of the lowest pensions in Turkey is 1,500, 19,200 in Germany, 16,700 in the Netherlands, 14.112 in Greece, that's the status of the pensioner. The pensioner's condition is worse than the pensioner in Greece, which is bankrupt. Dear friends, let me show you another picture. Let me show you another picture. This is the retired from Germany, and this is the retired from Turkey; on the one hand, the laughing, the crawling. (CHP) This is the order you've brought in, which is what you've been retiring in at the end of the 19 years. You will always face this truth. You read stories here, you lecture, but the facts that we live in Turkey are not what you say they are. I'd like to share another painful situation with you: Dear friends, the situation of young people in Turkey is miserable. According to the data of the TÜİK (TİK), one of every 3 youths is unemployed, according to the data we have seen on the street. According to reports, 74% of these people say they can only work in exchange for roads and food. Dear friends, as we all know, Turkey is the most beautiful country in the world. Now, the question to ask is, why do we have the eyes of foreign forces on us, and why do our young people have eyes on other countries? We need to see him. See, the children of Akbasoglu, who live in Turkey, probably, are looking abroad for the future of the AKP people, the CHP people, the CHP people. Out of every 100 young people, 76 would like to live abroad. Leaving the land where his mother's father was born, he seeks bread in foreign lands. Who did this? At the end of 19 years, the AKP ruled. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, every time Recep Tayyip Erdogan takes the stand, have three children." he says. Those who trusted Recep Tayyip Erdogan and had three children are now on the road. Look, let's throw it out, three names, one Rabia, one Mirach, one Talha. Now, Miraç and Talha are trying to go abroad; unfortunately, our children's future is not in our country, but abroad. What do the boys want? He doesn't want to experience dorm problems, he doesn't want to be arrested because he's kicked out of college, he doesn't want to work for food when he's done, he doesn't want to be interviewed, he doesn't want to get high on a written test; he says young people want to get jobs without their AKP/TK uncles. Now, you're using it from time to time, I'll tell you, the biggest problem of Turkey's beka is looking abroad for our young people's future. Once again, 76 of every 100 young people are looking abroad for their future. Dear friends, look, let me give you another example from the developed countries of our business; look, this is a painting of our trade. Advanced countries have made an average of 11.7 per cent grants, developing countries 5.67, underdeveloped countries 3.20, Turkey's rate of 3.51, unfortunately. Look, in order to understand better, let's compare the Guatemala 3.6, India 4.07, Colombia 4.62, Georgia 7,12, as a direct income support for its tradesman, Turkey 3.51; unfortunately, Turkey is under even the African countries. I'm afraid you're forcing the Turkish tradesman to run a ball in the amateur cluster while the tradesmen play in the big leagues. Another thing, dear friends, is another thing that the tradesman has hanged: we have sunk with namus. Look, see this picture for example. This photo is the summation of the tradesman. The tradesman is crushed by three-letter markets, on the other hand by your policies. The shopkeeper says: "Should I pay the $1,055 lira BUG-KUR bonus, pay the electricity, pay the gas, or pay the rent? The shop is about to go down." I'm warning you from here: if this continues, unfortunately, our tradesman will sink. The shopkeeper says: "We didn't steal like anyone else, we didn't get paid in 3-5 places, we didn't get paid in luxury, we paid for this country for 40 years, we've now come to this country, we need food package. " [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, what have we seen in this Turkey because of you? We saw bread on the rack, stale bread tails, blood on the Red to buy oil, we saw people giving blood to buy oil; we saw bread tails in the rain for cheap bread, reduced oil tails; we saw cheap gas tails. In this country, there are markets in Turkey -- perhaps you haven't heard, your salt is dry -- selling secondhand goods. It's not a used car -- you think it's a used car -- it sells used jackets, sells used pants, sells used shoes. (CHEERING) Shame, dear friends, on those who put these people in this position! And I say to those who condemn my last word to the markets of our pensioner, our laborer, and our poorer: Alas, shame, shame, sin! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, if only we had only Turkish lira lost, if only we had Turkish lira translated into stamps, only our minimum wage lost, not just the pensioner's salary, not the minimum wage lost. Dear friends, in this country, morality is lost, morality is lost, shame is lost.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0426par0269	That's right, you don't have it!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0425par0270	Look, I'm going to give a few examples to those who make drug stashes in the country: there are drugs in the City Department of Family and Social Services that are supposed to protect our children, the vehicle of the Director of Family and Social Services serves drugs. Another example was found at the AKP headquarters, then the wealthy Kurdistanr... what's his name? He was caught taking powder, no sound.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0427par0272	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0425par0273	The head of the Central District has passed out. He says I didn't drink. Dear friends, I'm not a salesman, I'm a drinker. They're both dealers and smokers, I swear. Cocaine has become your national drink.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0428par0275	Tell me about Ceren Sun.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0425par0276	Dear friends, let me tell you something else: look, if anyone else had lived through what we've been through in the last year, they would have been a little embarrassed, a little blushing. Look, there's mafia, there's mob protection, sir, there's 10 million euros, there's Zindashti, Aliye Long, Aliye Long, there's prostitution, there's service, there's editor-in-chief. Look, dear friends, the passport, the passport that's become someone's pass, the pass of human traffickers. But what? It's all there, what's up? Mr. Akbasoglu, as you were defending me, I'm telling you: no morals, no shame, nothing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0429par0279	Your time is up, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0425par0280	I don't know if you're a little embarrassed because you just defended it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0429par0281	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0284	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. We're discussing the final item, and I'm here to review it on behalf of our group. This budget is a multinational budget, the budget of 84 million people, our nation; the budget of our young, our women, our children, our old uncles, our aunts, our farmers, our workers, our employees, our employees, our tradesmen, our industrialists, our industry -- 84 million people -- from the very end of our industry.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0431par0288	You screwed it all up, all of it!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0289	And with Allah's permission, there's hope in this budget, there's a future in this budget, there's an increase in purchasing power.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0431par0291	By Allah's leave, you have sunk them all!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0292	We'll start at minimum wage, I hope.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0432par0293	How much will it be?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0294	We'll start by making our underpaid brothers happy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0432par0295	How much will it be?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0296	After that, we will surely consider the 3600 additional indicators in broad spectrum.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0433par0297	In 2071, you will discuss it in 2071!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0298	Hopefully, we'll get to the bottom of the terms of the contractors. By improving the situation of the pensioners, we will make our assessments of our brothers and sisters of the YIT, by God's permission.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0434par0299	What are you going to do?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0300	We're going to increase the buying power by relaxing all parts of society. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I have a word from this place to our fellow farmers: O brother of the farmer, the lord of this nation, with callous hands!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0434par0304	What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? Akbasoglu, I told you, when I was here...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0435par0305	Congressmans, please, excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0306	Don't leave a spot we haven't planted or planted, but by God's leave, this state will not let you down, it will give you its support, it will give you its full support, it will demonstrate its power over inflation, it will support it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0436par0308	He can't get diesel for his tractors. How are you going to stop it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0309	My dear, dear brothers and sisters, of course, said: "The head of the administration must be neutral. " There have been non-real assessments of the government system of the presidency. I'd like to point out that in 2017, after the Constitutional Commission and the General Assembly, our nation was brought before our nation, and with a vote of 53 per cent, our nation approved the new government system, and this system has been in service for three years.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0437par0311	Diyarbakir was also selected with 60 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0438par0312	Where's Seljuk Spear? 63%...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0313	The Parliament has put the government's system on the shelf. The system that is now in effect is the presidential government system. There is no prime minister in this system, I will become prime minister. Those who say, "They must first change this system as a result, either with the votes of 400 MPs or by taking it to a referendum; this constitution is the commander.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0437par0315	Isn't it the Kurds' vote, Mr. Akbasoglu?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0316	After all, why did we switch from the parliamentary system to the presidential government system? Because the two-headed government wasted time in Turkey by taking two forward steps back. In this government system, all the coups, the big economic crises, the four-digit inflations, the four-digit overnight repo interest...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0437par0317	It's close, it's close, and you're running into hyperinflation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0318	Now they're trying to siphon the old system, saying it's healed and reinforced, and they're trying to make it look like it's new. But you really want to replace national will with custody focus.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0437par0319	We're back to square one!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0439par0320	You lost national will in Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0321	You want to open doors to custody centers.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0440par0323	You're the king of custody.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0324	All six of the AK PARTY and the DP, except for the Cumhur Alliance, are not the same party...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0441par0325	You lost national will in Mardin.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0430par0326	... They say the patched-up bundle alliance has come together, we'll move on to the reinforced or healed parliamentary system.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0442par0327	Mr. Akbasoglu, where do you want custody of the palace?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0443par0328	You're the guardian!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0444par0329	Mr. Akbasoglu, your party is a freak of democracy... The new custody Qatar, Qatar. You gave the country away!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0445par0331	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0332	See, as the local system, you know in municipalities, we're choosing the mayor in a separate crate and the council members in a separate crate.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0447par0333	Isn't Diyarbakır City City a municipality?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0334	As a result, in the government's administration, we thought the president was...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0448par0336	Congressmans, a little quiet, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0337	... Parliament elects MPs directly to the nation in a separate crate.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0449par0338	Who chose Diyarbakir, the Spearman?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0339	So, in the presidential government system, the government elects a direct nation for legislation and governance, the roof that constitutes the judiciary, and the Council of Judges Prosecutors, the President and the Parliament elected by the nation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0449par0340	Who chose Selçuk Lance?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0450par0342	Congressmans, a little quiet.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0343	This is the word of the sovereign nation without conditions. The word and the authority of the nation are used by its members. This is the constitutional way of expressing the word. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We're all for democracy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0449par0344	Shame, shame! Don't play democracy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0450par0345	Congressmans, quiet...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0346	We're on the side of what people say. (CHP and HDP rows) I'm asking you now: Isn't the Prime Minister the leader of the Parliamentary system the party? Isn't he the president and prime minister of a party? Who are you swallowing? Your main goal is to get the power of the nation to elect the president directly from the nation, that's your goal; get out here and tell them. Who will choose the president in the system you recommended?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0450par0348	Congressmans, a little quiet...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0349	Aren't you going to bring in the Prime Minister through a transfer from within Parliament?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0451par0350	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0351	So, you're in complete deception and deception.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0452par0352	Congressmans, a little quiet...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0353	We have a lot to say, but let me put it this way, our new economic model...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0453par0354	Shoplifting, looting, corruption!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0355	...1) Investment 2) Production 3) Employment 4) Export 5) Growment.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0454par0356	You're investing in a five-alarm gang, you're investing in a five-alarm gang!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0357	That's it. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We'll give the speculators and manipulators the answers by taking the necessary measures to offend those who offend our nation at this point.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0455par0358	Akbasoglu, does the head of the new system know, did you make it up?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0456par0359	Mr. Agha, there is no question.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0446par0360	Let me tell you: Who is the enemy of the Kurds?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0455par0361	Akbasoglu!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0457par0362	AKP!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0458par0363	You've appointed trustees to the mayors, it's you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0459par0364	Kurds are enemies of the PKK, those who cannot call PKK a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0460par0366	Mirror, mirror, mirror! Look at you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0459par0367	Kurds are enemies of the Armenian genocide. They are the ones who decide from the top decision-making bodies. Everyone should know that there is no prisoner in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0461par0368	Get out of here! You don't even believe what you're saying!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0459par0369	As a result of an independent and impartial trial, there are prisoners and prisoners.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0461par0370	Courts of the congregation, now your court.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0459par0371	Those who rent their minds to the imperialists may make different statements to the governor of this country.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0461par0372	5,000 judges, tell me about the prosecutor.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0459par0373	They may, unfortunately, be those who don't feel the ownership of this state and this nation. (APPLAUSE) 84 million of our people are equal citizens; Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, Persian, Alevi, Sunni; Hanefi, Shafii; separatists who try to divide our nation will lick their palms with God's permission. For those of you who want to know, our young, our children are on this land, alhamdulillah. We're in love with this nation, we're in love with our country. If you squeeze the ground that's going to gush out of the sky, doubt it! And let Huda take all that I have, Don't let me be the only one in the world from my country.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0462par0378	He read it wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0459par0379	Like the 57th Regiment, we tie our machetes to our knees, never leaving this country to the servants of any imperialist or imperialist. [Applause from the AK PARTY; CHP, HDP, and GOOD Party rankings; noise from the order of the Party, اBravoا voices, applause!]
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0463par0380	Bravo! Bravo.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0459par0382	Congratulations, it feels really good to be applauded by the opposition.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0463par0383	Bravo! Way to go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0464par0385	They're on their way, they're on their way. [HPP, HDP, and RHP Party rankings ▪Bravobooks, applauses!]
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0465par0387	Yes, Mr. Ağbaba, you said Akbasoglu, you have no rights. [HPP, HDP, and RHP Party rankings ▪Bravoا voices, applause (!)
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0466par0388	Bravo, Akbasoglu, good for you, bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0465par0389	And I'll tell you, Mr. Agha, we don't answer to you, we answer to your father-in-laws, we answer to your father-in-law! [HPP, HDP, and RHP Party rankings ▪Bravoا voices, applause (!)
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0467par0391	Let this be the cover of the night.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0468par0392	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0465par0393	Dear and beloved MPs, by the way, Mr. Kilicdaroglu's National Alliance (National Alliance), may it be better and better.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0469par0394	God bless you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0465par0395	Although Urbana said -- friends said here -- there's no electricity, etcetera. He brought up the electricity issue to the farmer, friends talking about the CHP group. If you give us the City of Urfa there, we'll give you the electricity for free.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0470par0397	We'll give it to you. It's a bitch who won't give it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0465par0398	So, Adana, Hatay, Antalya, give it to me for free, brother, who's holding your hand? Yes, but Nurettin Canikli proved here that there were 700 million liras of corruption in Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0471par0400	Mr. Akbasoglu, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0465par0401	It doesn't take away the fact that you took out tens of thousands of workers when you promised honor. First, start the halalization by getting these workers back. [Applause from AK PARTY, CHP, HDP, and GOOD PARTY rankings ▪Bravoا voices, applauses (!)
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0471par0402	Vocabulary demands have been met on behalf of the groups. Now...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0472par0403	Mr. President, according to 60...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0473par0404	Mr. President, there can be no bullying in the speech he applauds.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0474par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0475par0406	Guys, we're already giving it to you after we pick on you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0476par0407	No, sir, he called her by her name, and then he started picking on her.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0477par0408	There's no such thing as a deputy, and there's no such thing as an oxymoron.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0478par0409	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0479par0410	No, don't we finish talking on behalf of individuals and pick on each other?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0480par0411	Is that all right, sir?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0481par0412	Yeah, he liked it, he clapped!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0482par0413	Mr. President, can you promise me the speech they applaud?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0481par0414	Yeah, that's considered hypocritical.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0483par0415	I'll finish the speeches on behalf of the individuals.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0484par0416	There's no deal left!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0485par0417	What kind of deal is that, Mayor?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0486par0418	He gave his name, named after him as a father.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0487par0419	Isn't that his last name?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0488par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0489par0422	Mr. Aghababa, this is perceived as hypocrisy, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0490par0423	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0489par0424	That's what happens, it's perceived as hypocrisy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0491par0425	Mr. President teased me with my name.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0492par0426	That's what I understood, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0493par0427	Mr. President, this is what Mr. Akbasoglu said, and I said, Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0494par0429	What did he say? I don't know what he said to you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0493par0430	And since he called me by name, I said, "Mr. Agha, we answer to your aghas." We didn't say anything.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0495par0432	He clapped his hands and...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0493par0433	We didn't answer him, we answered their father!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0496par0435	But you wait a minute or two, and I'll make a promise to Ms. Merkel first, to Mr. Beshtaş.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0497par0436	He's clapping and objecting.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0498par0437	Well, they applauded themselves, why do they answer the speech they admire? There's no such thing as hypocrisy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0496par0438	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0499par0439	Mr. President, thank you. I'll tell you what, we'll stick to our word and then we'll do it. The whole of Turkey has seen this antidemocratic and inequality of Akbasoglu's approach to his own group, and he's talking for 20 minutes, and without giving it to any member of the group, he's taking ten minutes and ten minutes at the last minute and he's giving a rally speech here, and let's just say we've noted that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0500par0441	Show talk.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0499par0442	We've received some very sad news, and I've been promised to share it. Dear Yücel Sayman, a man of law, a man of human rights, a lawyer we all love, a lawyer we care about very much, unfortunately we've lost, a man who truly dedicates his life to fighting in the rule of human rights and law. First, I would like to extend my condolences and patience to your loved ones, family, students, and the world of the academy, the legal community.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0501par0444	Finish what you're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0499par0445	I'd like to say goodbye to our dear Yücel Sayman, our brother Yücel, who is one of our professional masters. And this is a call from the villagers to me, in response to Akbasoglu's show: There has been no electricity in Turkey, in the village of Kuşkonak of Şırnak, in the village of Dağyeli for three months; there has been no electricity in Turkey for a month. That's the AKP Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0501par0447	It's on the record. Mr. Agha, take the stand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've got two minutes before the bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0502par0451	Tell me about the terrorists, the terrors.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0503par0452	Mr. President, he asked about my ancestors, my Aghas. My aghas, the Kuvaimillimists, my aghas, Ataturk, my aghas, those who fought against imperialism. (HPP's applause) My aghas are not the ones who collaborated with the enemy in the Battle of Salvation, Mr. Akbasoglu. Now another thing says, "Give me the lucky one, and in six months it's the last one that doesn't give Sannliurfa free electricity." How do we give it to him? We'll make sunfields, empty fields, stone fields, wrestling fields.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0504par0455	You have 215 municipalities.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0503par0456	Acbasoglu, find a field in Bursa, and let's do it; and let's give him free electricity. Give me the seaman, and let us give to Denizli. We'll give free electricity to whomever you want in Turkey. Wherever there's a field, we won't cross buildings like you, we'll build a field of sun. It is our honor to give the electricity free to the poor Urbana, whose electricity you have cut off.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0505par0458	Why don't you give it to me in Izmir?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0503par0459	Akbasoglu says: "There's hope in this budget, there's a future in this budget, there's an increase in purchasing power, there's growth. For God's sake, put your hands on your conscience. Who's growing up?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0506par0460	You can't put solar energy on farm land, so come find out. Mr. Agha, come find out, you've hit it off again.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0503par0461	Qatar, a village in the Ottoman era, is growing. Qatar, he has one order. You know, the falcon that was born, the Benjamin Franklin-looking Qatar Emiri, he came, and there was no one left he didn't take, no one left. Qatar used to be a small village of Ottomans, and now you've given away Turkey's deed, the deed. You have another partner, your new partner, the United Arab Emirates, the perpetrator of July 15th, the financier. I wonder who made it up to you. Who made you peace with the United Arab Emirates, could it be someone in this photograph?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0507par0462	Who is it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0503par0463	Look. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Nebati.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0508par0467	A number of taunts were made to my person and group at the point of attracting Qatar.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0509par0469	If you'll excuse me, Congressmans, Mr. Group Vice Presidents. If he keeps picking on me, I'll take a break from the merger, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0508par0470	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0509par0471	Don't make fun of me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0510par0472	I'll go out after that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0509par0473	If he messes with you...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0511par0474	Will 215 municipalities be electrified, Mr. Agha?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0512par0475	We will.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0509par0476	Mr. Akbasoglu, please don't pick on me. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0513par0478	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. We're not selling the country to anyone, we're not selling your land to anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0514par0480	Mr. President, I'm here to inform you that the Port of Antalya has been turned over for 19 years...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0513par0481	And we don't hesitate to sacrifice our lives for a millimetre, and there's no way we can hesitate at this point.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0515par0482	The malls in Istanbul are already Qatars.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0514par0483	You're selling ports, Mayor, ports.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0513par0484	Mustafa Kemal Paşa is my character, as he set out to fight for economic salvation, and so are we, by God's leave, to demonstrate our future and future struggle.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0515par0485	New buffalo, Qatar, United Arab Emirates. Billions of dollars and you're like a cat, like a cat.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0513par0486	And we will achieve the highest success, by God's will, with our nation united by the nation's government, and by increasing our nation's acquisition power...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0515par0487	What are we gonna do? We'll take it, we'll give it to Qatar, we'll give it to the United Arab Emirates...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0513par0488	...the rich nation, the rich individual, the strong and the great Turkey and the strong and the great Turkey's leadership will also give humanity a new righteous and merciful global order. That's our horizon, that's our purpose, that's our work. I've got a lot of images, pictures, not showing them, you know.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0515par0490	Show me, show me, Akbasoglu!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0516par0491	Show me, show me!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0513par0492	As a result, I'm expressing this.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0517par0493	You sold the Port of Antalya to the Qatars, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0513par0494	By God's leave, as it has been for nineteen years in June 2023, the people will give you the answer, hopefully, with the victory of the AK Party and the MHP, the Cumhur Alliance.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0518par0496	Then get the chest.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0517par0497	You're selling the Port of Antalya to the Qatars, Mr. President. They sell the Port of Antalya to the Qatars for nineteen more years and twenty-five years. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0519par0503	Yes, I'll meet your demands on behalf of the individuals. The first word is for Mr. Yusuf Ziya Yilmaz. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0520par0507	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you and our beloved nation. After this heated discussion, I'm going to try to raise my voice a little bit, in case I've made a personal commitment to the Transport Ministry budget, and what I'm going to say on my own behalf, maybe a little bit of a pace. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, I need to tell you about the historical development of our Transport Ministry budget for 2022 on land roads services. During the Ottoman Empire and the republic's governments, our country was not yours to go to. By the philosophy of Ottoman Governor of Sivas Halil Rıfat Pasha, it was their intention to provide our country with a network of roads, railroads, seaways and air, and they did their best in the circumstances of that day. In the beginning, these efforts to connect the settlements became an obligation for development, economic growth, the well-being of human communities, commercial, social and cultural development, but were possible only by access to roads and by control of areas around this road. My dear friends, the most important factor on the price of goods in the market is transportation costs. Competition in the domestic market or outside market is only possible with the low cost of logistics and transport; it is possible with the transportation infrastructure that reduces transportation costs. Today, thanks to the İzmir Highway, a loaded truck coming out of Balıkesir will reach logistics in four hours, or ports in the Bayyard, and at 75 per cent cheaper than ten years ago, it will reach the port of goods and services, which increases its contribution to the country's economy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0521par0511	How much does it cost? How much is it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0520par0512	My dear friends, at the end of World War II, they also forced the development of motor vehicles, fast and comfortable transportation, and the road industry required. After the war, in 1950, one of the primary goals of the multi-party era was improving road infrastructure to improve transportation infrastructure, which is essential to development. At the time, the ruling Democratic Party took some loans from the United States, such as EXIMBANK loans, Marshall loans, and, in fact, brought our country to a road network between 1950 and 1960 -- perhaps not in today's standards -- but in good faith. May God be pleased with them and their dwelling will be paradise. Today, the number of motor vehicles found 25 million was around 2 million in the 1980s. However, the average car accident of 7,000 mortals per year was also a burden on our country's economy for time and business losses on the roads that had not yet been divided. After 1980, our country's economy opened up and expanded its free market conditions, its need for transportation; the auto-finance solution to building highways and making new roads for transit fees along these routes was not considered, but due to political instability and economic crises, the highway move was not brought to the desired level. In those years, let's take the highway, develop the state roads and other divided roads along with the auto finances that they obtained. There was thought, but in time, instability and economic crises really struck that goal. In the coming days, developed economies have succeeded in building high-level roads with increasing number of vehicles, while developing countries have continued to seek resources to improve road infrastructure and standards. In fact, in 1990, a world road convention in Madrid was about how to provide the resources needed to build the roads that would be needed by the automotive industry. For the first time, the construction-business and public-private cooperation solution that was discussed there became a model that was used in all developing and developed countries 30 years ago, in all the following years. It is also widely used in the world today.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0522par0517	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0520par0518	During the time the transport budget was discussed, the speakers of opposition parties were not always opposed to these modern infrastructure services, but we are actually opposed to supplying and using the model of financing that was used. He said, whereas the countries that have been developing and trying to improve all the infrastructure in the world for 30 years have been trying to improve it. Dear MPs -- I don't know if we all remember -- there were portals that had become a fearful dream of land routes; Ziganas, Horseshalls, Kuskunkers, Kuskunkers, Oildontutans, Bearduktutans, near Ankara, even the people of our country, who were in the transportation service, had a fearful dream. These legendary mountain passes have passed through tunnels and viaducts, and in 20 years our tunnel length has grown from 50 kilometers to 590 kilometers, and our viaduct length has reached 700 kilometers. Dear friends, since we came to power in 2002...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0523par0522	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz, you've reached the end of your deadline.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0520par0523	Can I have my last word?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0523par0524	I'll open it for your last sentence, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0520par0525	I give thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has instructed us to make all these services. I give thanks to Mr. Buli Yıldırım, who has been crowning these instructions since 2002, and to all the Minister of Transport who followed him, and to my brothers, the general manager of the Department of Highways and all the people who work on every level. I sincerely wish our budget of 2022 would bring blessings to our country.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0523par0528	The second word on his behalf is for Mr. Ibrahim Halil Oral. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0531	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the 12th Amendment of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Honourable lawmakers, I want to talk to you about how power, with people's money, is where people are from, where they're from, where they're from. I also want to tell you what a wave of destruction and migration created by the Bitlis Creek Overrecovery Project. Before the budget talks, I was horrified by what I heard when I called my local tradespeople and asked about the latest situation. A brother of mine said that only 65 families left and migrated to Nazilli district of Aydın. Those who migrated to Istanbul, Antalya, and Manisa have no account. Why did these people migrate from the land where they were born, where they grew up? Because the shops, where they've made a living for generations, have been destroyed, and no alternative has been offered to them. Some of our tradesmen said they opened a shop on the Rahva side, but they couldn't do the job, so they had to close it. In short, it's Bitlis' economy, not the shops, that are destroyed by the local rehabilitation. Dear lawmakers, Bitlis, who emigrated yesterday with the closure of tobacco factories, became an immigrant city today, with the destruction of the stream environment. According to the data of TÜİKίn -- the statistical institution that did not upset Bey -- Bitlis has emigrated more than almost every year since 2002. Again, according to TÜİK data, Bitlis was among our poorest, lowest-income cities, along with Hakkari, Van and Mush. In 1999, we were representing our city with four members of parliament, including myself, and today Bitlis is represented by 3 MPs, which will fall to 2 MPs. In short, Bitlis is behind in every field. Bitlis is like a living city. Alas, isn't it a sin in this beautiful city? We will uncover historical tissue, we will reform Dere. It is the EK PARTY's government that ransacks a region that has passed over a thousand years of commercial history without consultation, without offering alternatives, as if it were smuggling goods from a fire. It was the AK PARTY power that took out the Bitlis trade and shop. Unfortunately, the AK PARTI was the one who broke the windows of the tradesman who opposed destruction, cut off his shops, power, and gas. Against this destruction, Bitlisi became Lady Meral Akşener, who walked street by street and street by tradespeople. From this bench, on behalf of my Bitlis people, I'd like to thank our president, who's taken an interest in the destruction of Dere Top from beginning to end. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Congressmans, Bitlisians are never opposed to the reform of the creek. But they were against the unplanned, unscheduled method of destruction and destruction, but the power didn't hear Bitlisli's voice. And now they want us to talk about the new problems that are going to be created by the suspended tobacco law for six months. In our economic circumstances, this law is nothing more than to say to the tobacconist, "Don't sow." I'm afraid Bitlis tobacco, the world-famous quality, is at an end. The Bitlis tobacco man, whose factory was taken from him, crushed by international cigarette cartels, is looking for a way out. The Bitlis want their factories and shops back before the nation's garden and park. The Bitlis want to flourish in their cities without migrating.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0525par0536	Yeah, why don't you see for yourself the organized industry they're building? When was the last time you went to Bitlis?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0537	I'm Mr. President, I've been there before you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0525par0538	You don't believe it yourself.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0539	I've been there before you, and I've traveled Bitlis six times, street by street, street by street by street, with all sincerity.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0540	What you say on this stand is all wrong, and I condemn you, and I really condemn you. I condemn you, what you say on this stand is a lie and a false shame!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0541	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0542	Don't cheat on this nation, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't really suit you. Come on, Bitlis, come be a congressman, run for office.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0543	I went to the Bitlis trades. I'll go with Bitlis, and I'm ready.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0544	It's a shame, I don't like you, for the first time, I don't.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0545	I give you my word in public.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0546	Shame, shame! Come to Bitlis next time. Come to Bitlis.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0547	I'm ready to go to Bitlis with you, tomorrow...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0527par0549	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0550	Shame on you, don't do this! It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0551	Our tradesmen and businessmen complain that there is no tax and administrative court in particular. I demand a tax and a administrative court to cover Bitlis and Mush on behalf of the Bitlis.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0552	Who are you speaking for?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0553	I demand on behalf of the Bitlis, you don't represent the Bitlis, brother.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0554	Who are you speaking for? Does that look good on you?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0555	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, every member of parliament that comes up here is a member of the entire nation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0556	They won't let you in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0557	I am the son of Bitlis' land.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0558	By God, Bitlis, they won't take you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0559	Dear Congressman, I'm going to go and see who they didn't buy Bitlis for.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0560	They won't take you, they won't take you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0561	I'll be with you...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0562	They won't take you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0563	My dear brother, here, let's go together, if you can afford it, let's go together.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0526par0565	Yeah, I'm there, they won't pick you up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0566	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as much as they may speak, I will speak from here on behalf of the Bitlis, and I will speak for the Bitlis, my friends. In short, the Bitlis have a lot on their plate, we have a lot on our plate.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0528par0568	Your time is up, Mr. Oral, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0524par0569	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0528par0570	I gave you an extension.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0529par0571	But it's too cut off, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0530par0572	Sir, you're not looking at Ankara.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0531par0573	Next time, get ready. They won't take you next time, Bitlis.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0532par0574	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0533par0575	We're not against the project, we're against the Ranta. So I'd like to show Mr. Benevolent Businessman Ahmet Eren Bey. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ahmet Eren Bey on behalf of the Bitlis people for their contribution to the university and their support for the education of the city.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0534par0576	You're sending a message?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0533par0577	And I want to bring up one thing because I promised the road workers: we want you to listen to the cries of staffed scale difference workers working on the highways, and we want to correct the price situation. I pay my respects with these thoughts.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0535par0579	Thank you, Mr. Oral. Congressmans, the talks on Article 13 have been completed.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0536par0581	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point to get him on the record.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0537par0582	Did he pick on you, or what?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0535par0583	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0538par0584	Mr. Cemal, if you please, I say in peace: Let us go together to Bitlis.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0539par0585	I don't think it suits you. I don't think it suits you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0538par0586	No, let's go to Bitlis together.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0540par0587	Mr. Oral, would you excuse me? Mr. Oral, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0541par0589	Talk about Ankara.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0542par0590	He's there every week.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0543par0591	Look, Ankara is waiting for you, about Ankara. He's a friend of the Ankara MP.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0541par0592	Why don't you go to Ankara and see if you're going to Bitlis?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0544par0593	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0545par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I really didn't mean to interrupt something like this, but here's the thing: I've been to Bitlis three times. There is a once-in-a-lifetime challenge in Bitlis, where 740 workplaces have been destroyed, where people have indeed suffered a great deal of loss. I'm not going to go into detail, but we went to the Bitlis, we slept with the Bitlis. And the Bitlis tradesmen are very complaining about it, and the people there are very complaining. Now, before I know it, I'd like to say that I don't find Mr. Halil Ibrahim to be very handsome.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0544par0596	But everyone's talking to each other, Mr. Master, don't.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0545par0597	Secondly, Mr. Halil İbrahim, he can't tell you himself. How many times have you been there, can you go there?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0544par0598	He's from Bitlis.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0546par0599	They support the PKK." There they ate the brush, and there they ate the brush.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0545par0600	Halil İbrahim has gone six times, he is from Bitlis, and believe me, there is great love for Halil İbrahim Bey in Bitlis.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0546par0601	You support the PKK." They ate the brush there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0545par0602	I hope and wish that the AK PARTY MPs could walk the streets of Bitlis. We've traveled the streets of Bitlis. We haven't seen an AK PARTY MP or an organization. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0547par0605	Thank you, Master.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0548par0606	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0549par0607	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0547par0608	Congressmans, the speeches are complete.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0548par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0549par0610	Mr. President, the Minister has misled the House, given false information. Everything you say is wrong. Bitlis didn't give real information about it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0547par0611	I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0550par0612	What did he give you wrong information? Let's have our Bitlis Congressman talk.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0547par0613	I promise you for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0551par0615	Mr. President, I don't understand why you're acting like this to our orator friend Bitlis, who just spoke, but he's an Ankara MP, but he's probably trying to pick something up somewhere. In Bitlis, as I said before, there were places of business that were built over the stream. We've seen Kastamon, and we've built 700 businesses on the orders of Mr. President not to do the same. That's where we did it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0552par0617	No, no. There's no such thing. They're all closing down their businesses.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0551par0618	And then we did all of these things at the top of their list of jobs, and we gave them their money.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0552par0619	No.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0551par0620	There's a group, a group that makes you talk, a group that makes you say the words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0552par0621	No, it's not like that at all. You're making completely unrealistic statements.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0551par0622	With the permission of Allah...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0553par0624	Mr. Tamar, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0552par0625	No, it's not like that at all.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0554par0626	Our Bitlis Deputy...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0553par0627	Thank you, Mr. Tamar.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0552par0628	You're making completely unrealistic statements. You're making completely unrealistic statements.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0553par0629	Friends, but today, are we talking about the budget, or are we talking about Bitlis? I mean, come on. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0555par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, they've victimized the poor people there with the porter's speeches. You can't turn this off. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0556par0633	Yeah, do you have a nail in there? For God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0555par0634	Don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't... don't...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0556par0635	Is there something you're doing in there? Is there anything else you're doing besides mixing people up? Do I have to talk to him? Don't do this.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0555par0636	You destroyed all the people's homes, talking about nails. Give it up, give it up! You've victimized people and left people perperious on this winter's day.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0557par0637	Yeah, well, you screwed people up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0555par0638	Don't talk about it, come on!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0557par0639	Shut the fuck up!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0555par0640	You dirty man!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0557par0641	You're rude!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0555par0642	What's going on with you?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0558par0643	Mr. Bagpipe, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0557par0644	You're the dirty one! You're dirty, you're dirty! The subcontractor of the Kurdistan Workers' Party
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0558par0645	Mr. Centipede, Mr. Bagpipe...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0559par0646	Now... you stand up to the people they've killed like this...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0557par0647	What have you done so far? Dirty!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0560par0648	Mr. President, he can't say "unsavory."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0559par0649	I don't know what you're doing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0557par0650	You want him to insult us?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0561par0651	Let him finish one word.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0562par0652	He has to take it back, there's no such thing as dirty.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0563par0653	The Bitlis will weigh him anyway.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0561par0654	Let him finish.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0563par0655	The Bitlis will weigh it, you'll see it in the next election.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0564par0656	He can't say that. He can't say that.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0565par0657	Why can't he say that? He invites you to behave, what is it?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0564par0658	An invitation to manners... a dirty insult? It's an insult.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0565par0659	You don't talk. Say what you said.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0566par0660	Yeah...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0567par0661	Mr. President, Mr. Taşar, Mr. Ibrahim Orala, you're trying to grab something there. He has made a serious accusation and taunting.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0565par0662	Let him listen, I don't know if he's been talking for an hour. Let him speak on the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0568par0663	Am I gonna ask you if I'm gonna talk?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0664	It doesn't matter. He said, "You're not going anywhere, so you're not going to Bitlis."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0570par0665	No, no.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0666	That doesn't count as teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0571par0667	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0668	If we're looking for bullying, there's a dirty man screaming. Normally, I'd have to do a criminal procedure, exercise discipline.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0669	Mr. President, that's different.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0670	Please, Mr. Master, I beg you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0671	No, Mr. President, you're trying to grab something.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0672	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0673	That's an ugly expression.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0674	Of course, everyone tries to grab something out of politics, try to get into position, try to get stronger.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0675	No, that's not how you say it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0676	That's not an insult.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0677	Guys, that's not how you say it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0569par0678	Please, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0679	▪ What does it mean to grab something? That's an ugly expression.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0573par0680	Go!
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0681	We don't see that coming.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0574par0682	Please, Mr. Master, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0572par0683	No, at least not to a friend from...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0575par0684	Go on.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0574par0685	Mr. Master, look, there's no point in prolonging this. In a normally closed order, you asked for a word, I promised you as Deputy Director of the Group, you carried on through Bitlis. Come on, I'm asking you! I mean, there's no point in doing that at the end of 12 hours of work. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0576par0687	Mr. President, are we going to make our commitments now or after the questions?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0575par0688	Go, go, go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0574par0689	I'll promise you later, my dear, at last. In my opinion, let's even vote and let the MPs go in peace. Then, we'll do it alone.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0576par0691	No, we'll take it now.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0574par0692	I mean, there's nothing to it, okay. I'll make a promise to the Deputy Directors of the Group, but not now.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0577par0693	If you have a job, don't be acting. If you're in a hurry, don't come.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0576par0694	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0577par0695	Did we force you to be a deputy?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0578par0696	Dear friends, the conversation is complete. No questions, no answers. Now, I'm going to promise 15 of our MPs in order to assess their location, ask questions.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0579par0699	Mr. President, if our agreement this morning is still in effect, it's been violated.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0578par0700	It's valid.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0579par0701	After all the talks are over, we'll do the evaluation before the question.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0578par0702	Question-answer included, my dear.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0580par0703	After the question-answer... after the question-answer...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0578par0704	Okay, I'm not voting. I'll do the QA and then I'll get your evaluations.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0581par0705	What do you mean, evaluation?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0578par0706	Yeah, it's not a question process. Here, I promise the MPs now.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0582par0707	Mr. President, vote for our Group Presidents, and then...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0583par0708	Mr. President, we support you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0578par0709	Here you go, Mr. Chepni.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0584par0710	Thank you, Mayor. When will you sign the International Convention on Reconstruction of Work and Living Conditions of Tourism Employees, adopted by the International Labour Organization in 1991? Do you have a study of financial support for artists who have suffered from suicides in the pandemic process? When will you stop killing animals under the name Hunt tourism? For the second time in a year, the waste depot of the iron enrichment plant collapsed in the disaster of the famine. Even after three days, Minister Kurum is silent. We ask: Why did you exempt the facility from the CED process?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0585par0713	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0586par0714	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the 2022-year budget of our President of Religious Affairs to be good for our President, for our country and for our nation. The Ministry of Religious Affairs was founded to carry out the affairs of religion, religion of Islam, worship and morality, to enlighten our people with the right religious knowledge, to rule the places of worship. I congratulate the members of our presidency who work at every level, whose constant primary duty is to deliver the light message of our religion to our people. On this occasion, our late Imran Sword Hodja, who served for many years in the Dianet organization with his knowledge, wisdom and humility, and established the heart of all of us, who had recently met Rahmetirahman, says, "May heaven be the place of our dead Imran Sword teacher."
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0587par0717	Mr. Nice... Ms. Semra? No.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0588par0719	Yes, it was to be given to me, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0587par0720	Sir?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0588par0721	It was changed, Kemalbay.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0589par0722	It will be given to Kemalbay.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0587par0723	There's no Mr. Nice. There's nothing reported to us here. Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0590par0725	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been announced that all subcontractors in the public will be hired as subcontractors, but still tens of thousands of workers work as subcontractors. The subcontractors working in municipalities were taken to the municipal company, limited their rights. Thousands of workers in Public Economics are still subcontractors. On the highways, 14,000 workers remained in subcontractors and 17,000 in PTT. The airlines, railroads, agriculture and forest, subcontractors in national education were ignored. The 70 per cent service contract was applied as discrimination and punishment for subcontractors. Is there work to give all workers a staff right? The privatisation workers who moved from 4/C to 4/B have failed to have full 4/B rights, created 4/C within 4/B. 4/B Privatisation workers must have full 4/B rights. Is there a study to address injustice and victimization? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0591par0729	Mr. Omar Ocalan...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0592par0730	Mr. President, my question is to the Ministry of Culture. The point is: In the 21st century, Kurdish people suffer from cultural genocide envy. See, there's a name change in digs in many places. See, in the excavations of Ergani Çayön, the name of the region is Koteberçem; the name of Bebeklitepe is Xirapreshk, Girê Miraza. At the same time, Hasankeyf has a history of 12,000 years. Unfortunately, the history of the people of the region has not been considered, and we say that the Kurdish people are jealous of a cultural genocide. It's worth considering. By changing names, you cannot change the history of Kurdish people or the history of the people of the region with assimilation policies. You got to avoid these cheap things, don't worry about the technical stuff. If the name of the region is Kurdish, the Kurdish name remains.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0591par0732	Mr. Levent Karahocagil...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0593par0733	Thank you, Mr. President. In the last 18 years, the forest presence in the world has decreased, while our country has become one of the few countries to increase its presence in the forest. As part of the 5,000 Earnings Forest Project in 5,000 Villages, 17 million income-producing species have been met with sapling soil in 5,390 villages so far. Turkey is ranked number one in Europe and sixth in the world. Our goal is to get 7 billion plants to meet the soil by the end of 2023. In 64 cities, 7 million hectares, 265 on our plains, we have protected by the Council of Ministers and the President's decrees. By the end of 2021, 2 million and 15,000 will be planted in our Amasya, and 252 million in all Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0591par0735	Mr. Kemal Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0594par0736	Thank you, Mr. President. Arsemia, on the road to Mount Nimrut in Kahta district, has a two,500-year-old history in Arsemia's tourist area, which is currently under the name "restoration" and is under construction with concrete and iron. Does the Ministry of Culture know anything about this? The same study included the Cendere Bridge. Another question: What is the reason that Turkey is not part of the Universal Declaration of Language Rights in Barcelona, the capital of Catalonia, in 1996? Is there any study in this direction? Because language rights are a subject that has been violated in Turkey and has been speculated on and even committed criminally. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0595par0740	Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0596par0741	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the President if he can give an order for Hatay. I also ask the ministers: Our citizens who have built their homes in Hatay for decades on treasure land are victims; although they have paid their dues, they can't get the deed; it's a pity, it's a sin. I'm calling to the ministers: when will you give me the deed? They just want the deed. And will the highway be completed or not? What about the Hassa Tunnel? We're also looking for support from the AK PARTY Hatay MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0597par0744	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0598par0745	The value of our money goes down, the dollar goes up, every day goes up. The unresolved interest reduction has turned the economy upside down. The narrow and fixed income thinks in black and black: "How should we make a living?" Bread is $3.00, bagels are $3.5. The people are growing tails to buy cheap bread from bread. Trader, farmer, employee, unemployed, unassigned, retired, disabled, unhappy. Do you at least plan to arrange for pensioners in this troubled process? Do you plan on taxing all fees as high as minimum wage? Do you intend to restore the extortional rights of pensioners? Do you plan to hang on to 70 per cent of the service contract and employ subcontractors? As AKP, do you intend to go to an emergency election, which is a public vote because you have lost the ability to solve problems? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0597par0747	Mr. Mehmet Ali Çelebi...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0599par0748	Thank you, Mr. President. We know that a partial improvement to doctors and dentists is required by the Treasury and Finance Ministry to extend to other health workers, and we find it positive. Our vets also receive their wages from the health care class. In the middle of this, it's an injustice to accept only members of the Ministry of Health as a health worker. We call it the Homeland Party. It should include our nurses, all of our medical staff, and our vets, which is fair. I say this matter must come to the agenda of the General Assembly, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0597par0750	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0600par0751	Thank you, Mr. President. The economic understanding of the presidential government system based on production and exports, the hard-working personality of our Minister of Commerce, Mr. Mush, has also been reflected in our ministry, and our country has signed the export records of the republic's history. However, this is not an issue for nut exports. I'd like to ask our Ministry how many billion dollars do you expect from the export of nuts in 2021? What are the causes of the decline in the recent years in our revenues from nut exports? Does our Ministry have a study to make nut exports as last property, not as crustaceans and inner nuts? Is our ministry investigating and monitoring foreign companies and domestic cooperation companies involved in speculative activities in nut exports?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0597par0753	Mr. Hussein Avni Aksoy? No. Dear Ali Muhittin Stoneborn...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0601par0755	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious lawmakers are able to identify citizens in 81 districts who need social assistance and use appropriate services, education, guidance and counselling services for families, along with the Family Social Support Programme, which is set up to provide faster access to public services, especially social services and social services. As part of the ASDEP programme, staff was recruited under the presidential PKK 696 and 4/D employee status. ASDEP staff members of the 4/D employee status are doing the same job as a 4/D employee status in order to ensure that rights losses don't increase and that business peace can be achieved.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0597par0758	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0602par0759	Thank you, Mr. President. Kayseri Metropolitan Municipality has removed the parliamentary seat, which has been in the City Council for thirty-three years, just so the members of the National Alliance can't speak. Is this your idea of advanced democracy, is this your idea of heart municipalism? No one can silence our councilmen who have been elected by the votes of the nation, who have taken their power from the nation. Even without the bench, the members of the party, who have earned the appreciation of the citizen in Kayseri, address the problems of the citizens and follow them to the end of their problems. Mr. Mayor, I advise you to keep your promises during the election instead of removing the people's bench, go to market, listen to the citizens, work out the problems of the citizens, create services. The AKP Mayor says that as the first and only city without a bench in his House, he has passed on to history, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0597par0761	Mr. Haci Özkan... Mr. Hussein Star...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0603par0763	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask the Minister of Transport a few questions through you. Highway work between Aydın and Denizli has begun. The company that took this job, unfortunately, puts the citizen in a difficult position in publicisation. He comes at night, no price, without locating the citizen, cutting down his olives and fig trees. They occupy their present space immediately, without paying a cent for the state of BuHürkent, Kuyucak, Nazilli, and the citizens in that area. It's about this. We ask Mr. Secretary that the commission should do so, but the company has given its own price of around 20,000, 30,000, 50,000, to the land, to the turn of the land, to the turn of the road. The villagers won't accept it, and all the villagers are in trouble. I'll have the D.O.D. of the Highways down there as soon as possible.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0604par0767	Mr. Kemalbay Pekyügü...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0605par0768	Thank you. Nurses, physicians, maids, technicians, all health workers are asking for their rights, not applause. I salute the health workers' strike today. I'm inviting the House to do its duty in full. Why is the suspected death of Burak Ogrash, who was found dead in 2011 while interning at the Hotel Rixos, not illuminated? What kind of audit is being made regarding the violence-related, gender-equality, insulting publications? How many organizations have been punished if there is an audit? How many SMEs have been closed in Turkey in the last two years, and why?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0606par0773	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0607par0774	We participated in the actions of health workers during the day, and we are in Greev. I want to say that thousands of health workers have participated in this action with the password all over Turkey; we support their actions. On the other hand, I'd like to ask how many ancient cities there are in Turkey, how much of them are digging. Turkey, however, is an archaeologically important area, but unfortunately, it cannot find its rightful place in the world. How do they feel about that? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0606par0776	Thank you. Congressmans, I will now meet the demands of our Group Vice Presidents, and then I will make a promise to Mr. Secretary. Guys, as soon as I technically vote, I have to shut down the General Assembly's work, I have to get Mr. Group Vice President to talk. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, today, while we're making these talks, Turkey's external debt has increased by 190 billion dollars, so we started at 14.40, now 14.80. Now, on the one hand, our friends have always said that for the first time in the budget, you know, these budget figures have been announced in the medium-term program. When explained, dear friends, it was $224 billion, which is now $118 billion, so nearly half of it melted; $106 billion was gone. Now I understand why Mr. Akbasoglu talks so hot, why he shouts so loud, and not aesthetic at all, when I think of him, crime to suppress. He doesn't want to talk about it, there's an AK PARTY Deputy President acting out of guilt. So he must be screaming that people's screams don't get heard, our crimes don't get out, and his friends probably appreciate that there's no other logical explanation. And now, on the other hand, tomorrow at the Industrial Commission, there will be an offer of law on these ports, Mr. President. It's a law proposal that now the ports, which have been rented under forty-nine years, sir, will all be raised to forty-nine years. Of course, this is a new archeologist, a new heist, and I'm telling you very clearly, because there's not going to be a tender here, just outside a consulting firm, there's going to be a price assessment, and there's going to be something done on it. However, we made these tenders at the time; it should have been done with open bids when the period of twenty years, thirty years, was over. If any of your friends object to this -- İsmet Bey, it seems to object -- I'll remind a person who's done this in the past about this, and I'll tell the same business owner who's going on like this, what a big robbery, what a haul. I don't think he wants to be heard either, Mr. Akbasoglu, he's screaming and screaming. Now, actually, I was going to talk about something else, but he gave me so much material... that you call it the national budget, so tell me, Mr. Akbasoglu, what is the nationality of the budget? So if a budget is a national budget, that budget should not melt once. Look, I'm a man who's been following the budget as deputy chief of staff, general manager, deputy chief of staff, MP, Deputy Director of the Group. This is the first time we've had half of a budget that melts before it leaves the House. So you have to think about it. How do we run this country? You have to think about it: with this shouting, calling, carrying on, sir, we're talking about budgets here, there's no way to solve these things by bringing up other issues constantly on the other side. So the national budget is a melting budget? Is that your idea of nationalism? Or to increase support for these, for which there are no YITs, there are no 3600, there are no farmers, there are no tradesmen.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0785	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0786	Let's raise it right now. There's no way we can increase it because -- you know -- we can't make a spending-enhancing proposal in the General Assembly. Oh, here's where it comes down to, what we're talking about right now, we don't care about budgets, we don't care about Parliament at all. Although we do not have funds, we spend money in any way we want. An antidemocratic understanding must come to us. Now, sir, production, employment, investment. What were you thinking for 20 years, so what were you thinking for 20 years? So that means that it's swollen inside you, that you're in such a state of explosive state, that there's a build-up of energy. Mr. Erdogan, on the evening of November 22nd, we haven't had any results in these policies in nine years. None of you would have talked about it, and now everyone is talking about it. Production, employment, investment, that's Turkey's import paradise. Who made it an import paradise? Who imported hay in this country, my friends, in whose time? I mean, what if it's that bad? So you're going to make this country an import paradise, and you're going to eat the money that came during that time.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0789	Finish your words, I'll open them for the last time.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0790	My reserves are up. You're going to show off. Now, the money's out, the reserve's out, you've melted everything, the debt's piling up. I was going to get out of Nasrettin Hoxha's shop when the money didn't come anymore. Okay, so now, we're producing, employment, investment. Friends, no one's objecting to it, why haven't you done it until now? Kim, how will you do it? We've been calling it production, employment, investment. For years, we've been calling it production, employment, investment. In this ambiguity, Mr. President, who invests and who manufactures? Yeah, well, we're doing a lot of math here, so the account's changing until I tell you the score. Who can do business on this, and who can trade on that? How can someone do the math where there's no price, give them the goods, do the work? Don't you ever talk to exporters, talk to importers? There's no money, anyway. So production, employment, investment. What you call it has no actual lining. Now, sir, he says, Mr. Akbasoglu, we've said it many times, we're tired of repeating ourselves, we're still called IMF, IMF. In the history of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0793	Five minutes are up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0794	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0795	I'm just opening your last sentence for you to collect.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0796	I'll tell you what, Mr. President. It's not in your administration, but it happens that we talk for five minutes, and then it goes on for eight, nine, ten minutes. You're not gonna give it to the other friends, so I can stop here.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0797	I opened it for six minutes, so finish it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0798	Okay, but I mean, it's really happening, and we're more victims than we are.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0799	No, I'll leave in six minutes, tops.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0800	Now, the IMF is called the IMF, okay? The IMF is the longest-running political party in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the AK PARTY, and the AK PARTY governments, friends. Well, it's a crime bust, isn't it? Didn't you use resources in the IMF? The debt of the IMF was paid. Wasn't the debt of this country paid? You paid the IMF's debt, you paid it as a loan from the World Bank, you paid it in debt from London, you paid it in debt from Tokyo, so if the public's debt was reduced, when you paid the IMF's debt, I'll say: It was a really good job. The public's debt has been doubled to three, to five, so you're getting paid elsewhere, you're paying off the other side's debt, so don't pursue such cheap politics! It's a sign of exhaustion. Don't be like that, for God's sake. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The War of Salvation... and the day before, I wrote the book.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0804	Thank you. It's full in six minutes, I won't promise anyone for more than six minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0805	Just one more minute, give the guys seven minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0806	I don't want to give my friends seven minutes. Look, it's been 12 hours, all the MPs are tired, Master.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0807	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0808	Use it yourself in one of the items tomorrow, talk about it for ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0809	No, no, we gave them away to our friends, we're not an antidemocratic party. No problem, but when he came to Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0810	Six minutes there.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0811	Six minutes, no problem.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0812	I won't promise anyone more than six minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0608par0813	We've always been victims.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0814	Mr. Akçay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0610par0815	Mr. President, I'm going to do something else. To you other speakers, please...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0609par0816	Okay. Mr. Beştaş, please. You've been maxed out for six minutes, so it won't be seven minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0611par0819	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, to be honest, it's the tenth day of budget negotiations. We've heard a lot of praises, slogans, rallying talks, and there was not one thing in the speech of the ruling group in particular, there was no truth. They drew a picture of life outside, a language of propaganda and concealment without any connection to what was said here. In fact, both the works of this language and the actions of this government have failed. There's something else going bankrupt. Yeah, like head-on diplomacy went out of business, too. You may recall that Erdogan's meetings with Putin and Biden had not even been taken by the Foreign Minister and the bureaucrats. The records of these talks, for example, will not even be seen by the following governments. Headline diplomacy is also failing. Again, no criticism, no problem detection, no objective responses, no satisfactory response, and unfortunately we have faced aggression, baseless allegations, and accusations. Yes, we've explained the public's problems, but the ruling group -- two days left -- has made it very clear that they will not understand, understand, or accept, even if they do. The other one, of course, was our criticism of Mr. Akbasoglu. Please don't let any MP say we're here because of you. In the morning, we didn't take any promises so that only the MPs could finish early, so that the MPs could go early, so that they could rest, but they talked for 20 minutes on two items, even though they didn't report it themselves. The reason for this extension is not because of us, but because of the ruling group, which I want to emphasize. Akbasoglu said some really strange, tragic, tragic things about the Kurdish issue, the Kurds don't like you, he said. Ask a Kurd who he likes. Please look at the street interviews, who the Kurds love are in a position to decide. At least don't say that on their behalf, and let the people make their own decisions. Finally, these health workers have made statements all over Turkey that we are on strike today, and their basic slogan is: we want what's rightfully ours. You know, a package has been discussed here, 8 articles, we've approved them, too. All parties agree very little, we agree there, but then those clauses are recommitted to the Commission, and as the ruling group claims, they will not come back to Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0612par0825	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0611par0826	How many minutes has it been, Mayor?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0612par0827	Your three minutes are up.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0611par0828	Okay, I've got plenty of time. Now, as we discussed that package, we insisted that the arrangements made for doctors should also be made to all health workers, and that a fair and equal approach in this matter is also very important in terms of professional peace and business peace. But, unfortunately, the materials that were brought in for doctors now have been withdrawn, and health workers everywhere in Turkey are standing, saying, "We're on the ground," and things have gotten worse. Paramedics have not been granted their rights, and health has also increased violence, and, frankly, as the People's Democratic Party, we want to make it clear that this democratic response, this strike decision is justified, and that all parties in parliament should listen to the voice of their health workers, their workers.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0612par0831	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0611par0832	Right now, there are no treatments in hospitals except in emergency rooms, all doctors, nurses, labs, technicians on strike; let's hear their voice, we all need paramedics. I'll give you six minutes, Mr. President. Let me put it this way: Our last day here will be the end of the day; indeed, the public expects something other than here, the real situation, the real problems, and the solution. The budget's already cut short enough before it's over. So the ruling group can no longer hide these facts, objectively that these conditions need to be analyzed and...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0612par0835	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0611par0836	...there's a picture that we need to find ways and methods with common sense in order to somehow overcome Turkey's economic crisis. So I won't answer Mr. Akbasoglu's words, he said a lot of things, and I don't want his long speeches to be honest again because we want it to be over tomorrow, so...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0612par0837	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0613par0838	He speaks like poetry, like poetry.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0611par0839	I mean, I'm not a substitute for a rally speech here; I'm here to sort things out, to argue, to produce something mutual, to be honest. I mean, of course, we have to listen to him, just as he listens to us. Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0614par0841	Mr. Beştaş, I don't mean to extend the deadline or start a new discussion. What we talked about in the agreement that we had in the morning was questions and answers, and the words that our Group Vice Presidents would take based on 60, and how to do the bullying. However, we have no right to interfere or interfere with any party's speech on behalf of its own group and the speaker there as neither you nor the Presidential Court. Normally, when they arrived in the morning, perhaps not on the first list at first, but when they first arrived, Mr. Akbasoglu's name was announced to the Presidential Court as the speaker for all the articles, but then they withdrew those rights in 6 articles, and each time they told him they would not speak. So, for him, I'd like to point out that I don't think it's right to consider this an abuse of a speech on behalf of the group.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0611par0842	Anyway, I won't answer.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0614par0843	Mr. Ozkoch, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0615par0844	First of all, Mr. President, let me say that I disagree with you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0614par0845	That's the opinion of the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0615par0846	If you'll excuse me, I'll explain.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0614par0847	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0616par0848	I mean, I was gonna answer if I wasn't done.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0615par0849	Now, in the AKP Group, is there no one in the Justice and Development Party Group to talk to but Akbasoglu, and all of them have ten minutes? I mean, I don't think this is a deal...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0617par0851	You're gonna decide?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0615par0852	If you listen, you'll find out. Listen for a minute. It's about us, this group...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0618par0854	Congressmans, do not interfere, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0615par0855	The AKP Group will not speak, and we will withdraw the question-answer motions, and we will speak at the end, not at every point. We have decided that Mr. Akbasoglu will not comply with this decision, and from now on we will not comply with the decisions. At least as long as I am Deputy Director of the Group, I will not sign any agreement, no gentleman's agreement, in any group with Mr. Akbasoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, mind you, you go up there, you talk for 20 minutes, you talk for 20 minutes, you just answer this: What do you want from Turkey? He's calling his own president! Look, our external debt was $446 billion, so it's 6.6 trillion today. Turkey's foreign debt increased by 2.9 trillion liras in three and a half months at a rate of courtship; this is because of this economy. If I say this with the old money -- I don't know if I'll ever get back to my mouth -- in three and a half months, we've sunk into a debt of $2 million and $9 billion, just because of this policy. I'm asking you to pay interest, friends, what do we owe the interest barons in England? Because of this policy alone, the annual interest on this loan was 13 to 14 billion dollars; the interest we will pay next year was $19 billion when the budget was offered to parliament, and today it is $193 billion. Friends, $90 billion is just an increase in debt from the moment the budget is presented to Parliament. Now, in this budget we're talking about, 246 billion dollars in interest for the state's internal and external debt, that's $8 billion, which we're going to pay in dollars. When this budget was prepared, the figure was 70 billion liras, now 118 billion liras. Never mind the porters, really.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0619par0861	Complete your words, Mr. Ozkoch. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0615par0863	I'm not saying these numbers, you're saying these numbers. With your information, we've increased our debt of quadrillion liras. So we ask, friend, let a servant of God come out, and let him answer; what do you want from this land, why do you borrow it, why do you drive the people of this country into poverty and misery, and why should a person answer without envy?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0619par0865	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0867	Mr. President, thank you. Talks on both the budget and on the institutions and on the clauses were held by our fellow lawmakers on the stand. However, I believe our friends from the other political party were unfair to the AK PARTY Group and to our Group Vice President as well as to your methods. See, the fifth joke of Article 60 of the Civil Code explains how to make speeches on the articles. Again, in the fourth article of Article 81 of the Civil Code, twenty minutes on the whole, and half on the matter. He expressed his statement in talks on behalf of the groups. Under Article 49 of the Civil Code, the budget is discussed under the special agenda. This is an assessment of some of the laws and the budget alone. Political party groups have the right to say, according to the Civil Charter 60 and 81, but their talks against and against lawmakers are not subject to a political party group. The MPs -- Laws and Decisions know him very well -- on that day, at the invitation of the President, they will have their names written down at nine or ten o'clock. They're given the right to speak in favor and against any member of law enforcement. So, you can identify people who speak for and against each other, but lawmakers can change each other's rights by petition, but political parties can always use their rights on matter. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Mr. Akbasoglu made his assessment of the criticisms made in 2 articles, according to the Civil Code. And today, look, the Republican People's Party has spoken on behalf of the group for 90 minutes on 9 articles we're talking about, the party has spoken for 90 minutes, the HDP has spoken for 90 minutes, our Deputy Group President has spoken for 20 minutes...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0621par0870	No one's objecting to him.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0622par0871	Do it for 90 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0872	Sir, we can do it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0622par0873	Do it, but let's talk about it in advance.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0874	Look, dear friends... look, no... are we going to use it in your group...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0623par0875	Mr. Mustafa, didn't we talk about this inside? We talked about it inside.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0622par0876	Now we will act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0877	Now, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, I'd like to thank you for our gentlemanly agreement.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0623par0878	We don't say it's against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0622par0879	We will act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0880	The entire political party, the Deputy Directors of the Group, have agreed to comply with our gentlemanly agreement, and I thank them, but it's not in this text that we're not going to talk about on behalf of the group. It's just...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0623par0881	No, you said it, you said it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0622par0882	Yeah, you said it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0883	No, in the name of the group...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0622par0884	Yeah, you said it, no.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0885	Look, no...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0622par0886	Well, there's no one coming to us.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0624par0887	You said it, Mustafa Bey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0888	Look, while Mr. Dervisoglu was in there, we talked, and I said, "The ruling parties don't usually give speeches to MPs on behalf of the group because...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0625par0890	Go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0891	...if necessary, the Deputy Directors of the Group will take the stand, respond to the talks made before him, or else I'd like to say that I'm being bullied... we have a lot of former deputies here from the Republican People's Party, and we have more friends than any other political party. So if you want a word, to be able to answer a taunt, it can only be based on the 69th article, but now that it's traditional, it's established, it's written law, it's unfortunately put into practice, we're saying in the context of this agreement: five minutes, four plus one...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0626par0892	We'll act according to the Civil Code, brother.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0893	Not according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0626par0894	Now we're gonna do it. That's what we're gonna do.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0895	You've already got the whole group talking.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0626par0896	Okay, so from now on, we'll act according to the Civil Code, no deal. Okay, big brother, like you said...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0897	Now, thank you, thank you, I'll leave it to your discretion, however you do it, it's up to you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0626par0899	Like you said, we'll do as you say.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0627par0900	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0620par0901	Mr. President, I'm completing it. Now, look, if it bothers opposition parties to exercise the right of the ruling party here, as a democratic-loving MP, I'm saying that as a parliamentary speaker, it's to take away our rights. Not getting us to talk, not getting the ruling party to talk, shouldn't be the opposition's will. We always say that you should do all your talks -- let power be long -- but please let our friend sit here and be allowed to speak from the stand, not by violating the Civil Code, but by using his right to speak from his place. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0628par0905	Mr. Akçay, will you speak?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0629par0906	No.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0628par0907	No, all right. Mr. Commission, I'll make you a promise first.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0630par0909	Mr. President, thank you. There has been no direct question for our Commission today. Mr. Secretary will answer questions to our government. I thank you, Court, to all of our contributors. I wish you the best of the things that have been accepted today.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0631par0913	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0914	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I thank you, too. We've had a day of debates, sometimes bumpy, sometimes high blood pressure, this kind of debate, that's the usual thing about budget traditions. Now, dear friends, of course, I'm trying to get answers to certain questions, the ones who can, not all of them related to my Ministry. So I'm going to take some of them from the relevant ministries and give them to you. I'm going to share some of the answers I've had with you. Now, we have some questions about these employees, some questions about the staff. There are some studies about them, some of them related to those employed as temporary staff under this privatisation, I believe Mr. Solomon Girgin asked that question. These employees are being given the same financial rights as contracted personnel, regardless of any exceptions placed in these contract personnel positions. The additional payment rates that contracted personnel are already taking advantage of in this scope will be paid by an increase of 10 points starting in 2022. The whole question may not have been answered, but we'll get it from the transcripts, so we'll try to give you an answer. Mr. Omar had a question from the HDP Group. Again, there was a part about the employees, part about the work the Ministry of Culture did. Now, dear friends, there's an expression here: "Cultural genocide." We can't accept that. So we can't be involved in something like this in any part of Turkey, or in our historical cultural heritage, where our citizens live, all of which we're tasked with protecting, all of which are our values, making Turkey Turkey our own wealth. So anyone can express their opinion under this roof. Our human relations may differ from our view of Turkey's issues, but we are all citizens of the Republic of Turkey. There may be criticism here, there may be less investment coming in, there may be demands for accelerated work, there may be problems, there may be criticism, but here we do not accept criticism of a systematic cultural genocide against the government or related institutions. It is our duty to bring them back to humanity and to bring them back to life. After all, Mardin is a very historic city, and Hasankeyf is a historic city in the region, where Gobeklitepe in Şanlıurfa has taken human history further back. Dear friends, therefore, this government has revealed this again. If he'd acted in such a way with a cultural genocide, he wouldn't have been able to fund these studies and expose them.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0633par0919	He finds a German scientist! The German scientist finds Gobeklitepe, did you find Mr. Mush?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0920	Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0634par0921	Go ahead, Minister, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0922	Mr. Congressman, in the end, it's being carried out by the government to finally get them here, to get those studies granted, to give them these permits.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0635par0923	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0924	No one can take a pickaxe in their own hands and dig within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, so the permits are granted to them by this state again. So, if it's won, it's given to Turkey; hopefully, you'll win the rest. [HIP rows of voices, applause, applause] Dear friends, Adıyaman Arsemia is in the tourism area, about the matter Mr Kemal Nightingale said... I'll talk to our Ministry of Culture about it, and if there's a study to destroy assets there, I'll definitely intervene, and I'll talk to our Minister of Culture about it right away; I haven't had a chance. A 1996 Language Rights Conference was mentioned, whereas 1996 is far behind, we need to look at it. As of now, I can't tell you anything about the attitude and attitude of Turkey there, but there are many, many different languages in Turkey, they can be spoken, but our official language -- you all know -- is Turkish, so it's a right from the Constitution.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0636par0927	No one has any objection to the official language.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0928	In this respect, our official language is Turkish, but it's all about the ability to speak other languages, and I can express it to you freely. There's a question Serkan Topal asked about Hatay, about the treasures. You know these, many problems in different parts of Turkey have been solved. Each region has its own sensibilities. Every region has its own issues to deal with. If you've noticed while I was here, I made a phone call, so I called the general manager on this. There's a study they're running, but I can't figure out how close to a solution right now.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0637par0930	It's just about the houses...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0931	There's a demand, but it concerns several institutions, not just national real estate, Serkan Bey, but there's more than one organization involved in that area.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0637par0932	Mr. Secretary, our deputies know that our citizens are really victims.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0933	So, while we were in Parliament, for example, in Adana, in other regions, we solved a lot of things here in Parliament, we solved a lot of these issues with the Parliament, and even the other groups supported them. But there's something different about this place, I understand, it's still working, but I don't know how long it'll take. This is Belen-Antalia Road...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0637par0935	Antioch...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0936	Belen-Antaya Road, I'll ask our Minister of Transport about it. This Hassa Tunnel issue is on the government's agenda. So, we want to open it because it has a dimension like this: Alexanderun needs to expand industrial areas, there's no space, there's a port there. There's a serious area in the back of that tunnel where the industry can develop, and it leads to Gaziantep and Maras. This tunnel is a critical tunnel. The Ministry of Labor is following this tunnel, and so are our deputies. When I went to the area, some of the interested ones also expressed themselves. We're going to open it, we're going to force it.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0637par0938	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0638par0939	Let's open it, Minister, we want it. Minister, let's open the tunnel.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0940	We'll open it, we'll open the tunnel.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0638par0941	Let's open it, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0942	Now, there are some questions Mr. Omar Fethi Gürer has asked, about the taxes of minimum wagemen, about exceptions... there's a study about him, and I'll send it to you from friends I can provide technical work. Your question about early elections... It can be taken in two ways, you know, either Parliament gets 400 votes or it takes the President directly. Our president's opinion on this and the government's opinion is clear, the election will take place in 2023. Therefore, since this alternative is closed, Parliament must make a decision. This is the approach of the AK PARTY and MHP Groups. Thus, the election will take place 19 months later in June 2023. There are some comments, dear friends, that I pass on our MPs because they have comments. Mr. Umit had a question. Our expectation of exports is that the number can be changed by the price of nuts, by the price of commodity, and I don't want to give you an exact number. It's about his fall... Of course, out of Turkey, new manufacturers are coming in, new manufacturers are participating. In Turkey -- especially these beings -- the Army and Giresun are so rich in this sense that Sakarya, Samsun and Düzce are now on the road to becoming a serious producer here. So since the past history of Turkey's concern for the issue here...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0639par0946	Mr. Secretary, there's a lot of that in Urbana.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0947	Dear friends, there are nuts in these areas. Urbane is separate, Urbana is nuts, Urban is Pistachios... Now, so Turkey doesn't get the economic revenue it deserves from here, unfortunately, at the end of the day, we have to get it. This is about the speculation of foreign companies... It doesn't matter if it's local or foreign. If there's anything that doesn't agree with the supply demand, as the Trade Ministry, it's on our agenda. Turkey is a free market economy, we can't get involved in who's selling for what, but if there's a situation that can't be explained by the balance of supply demand, and if it's speculative, it's within our purview. Then we can intervene regardless of whether it's local or foreign. I'm also going to talk to our Minister of Transport about what Hüseyin Bey said; there is a demand for the citizens' land to be nationalized in connection with the involvement of the highways. There was a question asked by Mr. Sepil Pek Göpegü Hanım, a question related to the tradesmen in Turkey. Now, as of December 2, 2021 in Turkey, the total number of active companies and business businesses is 1,817,156. From March 11, 2020 to December 2, 2021, 226,724 companies or businesses were opened, 78,949 closed. When we look at the tradeshop registered in the Chamber of Business and Artists, there is 365,533 records in 2020, 99,588 releases, closes; when we look at the January-October period of 2021, 233,451 registrations, 79,372. You asked me a question about a young man who died here in a hotel. Of course, I don't know what state's attorney's office or what stage this is at, but I'm going to talk to the Justice Department, and I'm going to see if they have any research, whether or not the prosecution was involved, whether it was negligent, whether it was a murder, if it was an accident, or if it was an accident, and I'm thinking it could come out of there as a result of the investigation. Dear friends, I would like to share a few more information with you here: Now, these interest expenditures, of course, are very controversial; this is on Turkey's regular agenda. And I see these arguments in the budget talks here. Of course, no country and no government, no parliament wants to spend more interest, always looking for ways to bring them down. When the EC PARTI came to power, their national income rate was around 14.4 per cent, dropped to 2.7 per cent by 2017-2021, dear friends. These, of course, are proportionally... now, when you measure in quantity, you have the size of your economy, so it's measured by proportions in economics. Compared to tax revenues, 85.7 is now down to 17 percent. Another issue, dear friends: The share of these interest expenditures is 43 percent when we come to power, while 13.7 per cent is currently envisioned in the budget budget for 2022. Dear friends, here's the other thing: this debt has been mentioned. Of course, since IMF's agreements with countries did not produce very pleasant results, we, as government, did not continue after 2008, and we ended it. Now, when you look at debt burdens, according to the data of the IMF budget table, there is a 36.6 per cent debt burden in Turkey in 2021, and the average of developing economies is 64 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0640par0956	Those who are developing...
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0957	64.3% of developing economies; 36.6% of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0640par0958	No, sir, the number is wrong. Sixty-four percent of developing economies... no way, wrong, wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0641par0959	Mr. Secretary, they didn't make it very clear.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0960	Dear friends, look at the average of developed economies, the gross debt stockpile, dear friends, gross debt stock -- these are IMF data -- I'm asking you to average 121.6 percent -- 64.3% of developing economies; this is the data of the IMF. IMF's Financial View Report, October 2021; anyone who wishes can look from here, and I'll share the rates with you. When you look at the EU-defined ratio, 38.4% are the public debt of Turkey; these are the data shared by international statistical institutions. Here you'll appreciate that there's a huge rise in global inflation, especially during the pandemic period in the world, and there's a rise in the price of liquidity in the market, so there's a serious rise in global inflation, and Turkey is affected by that. So no government, no MP likes high inflation, no high inflation, and neither do we, but part of that -- as I've just expressed -- comes from global commodity prices. There's inflation in the world, a little bit low in some of these countries, but it's the government's job to control this inflation. So what I'm saying is that both the steps the Central Bank will take and the government will take will be taken within 2022, as well as the steps necessary for the stability of this price and the control of inflation.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0642par0961	Finish your words, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0632par0962	You have listened to me patiently, thank you to the General Assembly, and pay my respects. I'll send you the others.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0642par0965	Congressmans, talks on Article 13 have been completed.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0643par0967	Mr. President, we want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0642par0968	Sir?
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0643par0969	By using our rights from the Civil Code, by looking at the written rules.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0644par0970	It's the first time that's ever happened, not in the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0643par0971	You broke it, Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0644par0972	It was never in the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit04spe0645par0973	Yes, lawmakers, there has been a request for a roll call before the 13th Amendment vote, and I will carry out that procedure. Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Durkan, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Topal, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Kayan, Mr. Altaca Kayşoglu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Erdan Kılıç, Mr. Girgin, Mr. Süllu, Mr. Islam, Mr. Antmen, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yavuzyazýlm. Congressmans, I'll give you five minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-15sit05spe0645par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Y O L A M A There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the 13th draft of the 2022-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. The MPs who gave the compass, please don't let them out of the room. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Sustained. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the programme, 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal (OPT) was not voted on, and 2020 Central Administration's Final Account Law Proposal was held on Thursday (December 16, 2021) at 11 p.m. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
