tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Dear MPs, before we go to our budget talks, I ask for the condolences and patience of all members of the armed forces in the northern Iraqi area of Talon Yıldırım and of our heroic soldiers who were killed in Idlib. Our heroic martyrs are Marine Sergeant Ali Yellow, Marine Specialist Sergeant Idris Aksöz, Marine Specialist Sergeant Doğanay Steel and Infantry Special Sergeant Emre Ceylan. May the souls of our sons be in heaven and in heaven. In and out, we are with them to the end, God bless our heroes who put their lives on the line for the unity and unity of our country.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0002par0006	Bravo, Mr. President, God bless you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0001par0007	Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2022 and the Central Management Computation Act for 2020. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the fourth round today. In the fourth round, I read public administrations with budgets and precise accounts: Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, General Directorate of Forestry, State Water Affairs General Directorate, Turkey Institute of Water; Ministry of Justice, Supreme Court, Prosecutors' Institutions of Criminal Executions, and the Association of Jurisprudences, Turkey Justice Academy of Judges and Prosecutors' Board, Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution; Ministry of Personal Data Protection; Ministry of Defense. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Supreme Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 EPISODE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, it is agreed that the talks on the tour will be committed to the political party groups and to express their opinion on the 62nd amendment of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes as a question, ten minutes as an answer, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the fourth round, I run the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group: İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu, Adana MP Muharrem Varlı, Malatya MP Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu, Kurıkkale MP Halil Özturk, Tokat MP Yücel Bulut, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bkent Karataş, Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak, Bursa MP Mustafa Hidayet Wahapoğlu. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Mersin MP Ridvan Turan, İstanbul MP Oya Ersoy, İstanbul MP Züleyha Gülım, Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç, Diyarbakır MP Remziye Tosun, Kosun MP Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu, Mersin MP Fatma Kurtan, Bingöl MP Erdal Aydemir, Adana MP Tulay Hatığ. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Antalya MP Cavit Arı, Adana MP Ayhan Güzybek, Antalya MP Aydın Özer, Edirne MP Okan Gaytancıoğlu, Mersin MP Cengiz Gökçel, Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer, Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere, Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakverdi, Antalya MP Rafet Zeybek, Çorum MP Sava Kasse, İstanbul MP Turan Aydoğan, İstanbul MP Xenel Emre, Artvin MP Uğur Bay Bayututan, Çanakkale MP Özgür Cüllakkale MP Ahmet Kün. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Adana MP Abdullah Bekırılı MP Salim İbrahim Aydın, Antalya MP İbrahim Aydın, Karaman MP Selman Oğuzhan Eser, Güzhane MP Cihan Pektaş, Afyonkarahisar MP Ali Özkaya, Tokat MP Mustafa Arslan, Giresun MP Sabri Özturk, Balıkesir MP Afyonkarahisar MP İbrahim Yurduniseven, Bursa MP Vildan Yılmaz Gürel, Çurum MP Oğuzhan Kaya, Kahramaraş MP Habiş MP Habe Habiş, Saliz, Saliz Yağçı MP. On behalf of the party group: Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli, Konya MP Fahrettin Yoshush, Antalya MP Hasan Subaş, Antalya MP Feridun Bahshi, Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel, Kayseri MP Dursun Atash. On behalf of the individuals, İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Çelebi. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Bekir Pakdemirli, Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gul, National Defence Minister Hulusi Akar. Against you, İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem. Now, let's begin the talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0003par0065	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Department, State Water Affairs General Directorate and Turkey's Water Institute, and I salute the General Assembly. Today is December 10th, World Human Rights Day. On December 10, 2016, 46 of our police members were killed and 243 people were injured in the traitorous attack carried out by the PKK terror organization in Beşiktaş district. In the 5th year of the World Day of Human Rights, I curse this attack again and remember all our martyrs with respect and mercy. Even in our daily lives, climate change, which we all experience, makes the effects feel more and more powerful. It is not enough to address climate change simply in terms of emissions reduction. The important thing is to get through the country's harmonisation process and take precautions. Climate change is a matter for all ministries, including the National Ministry of Defence, and it is mandatory for all ministries to organise and co-ordinate the heads of climate change agencies. Each ministry must report and include the overall plan, predicting the effects of its field in these units. In this scope, the law on water law and climate change must be well planned. In the near future, decisions made in haste and regulations of the general administration, which have been implemented without further examination, will be able to add to major problems. Congressmans, the integration of the state's organisation into climate change is an important starting point. For society to adapt to agriculture, urbanization, economics, and in all dimensions, global warming and climate change, the state must pioneer both mental and practice. There are many areas where climate change will be a problem. In terms of agriculture, the seasons and seasonal transitions we're used to are now changing. Standard and predictable weather events and the rain regime have begun to change and these changes have become unpredictable until they reach balance. The irregularities in the heat and rain regime will have a negative impact and intense stress on the development of organisms. Although forecasts and planning for years to come have been largely achieved in the past, it is now unpredictable. This causes loss of recluse in agricultural products. The uncertain changes in the climate in the transition period lead to a lack of fruitism, absorption in agriculture and harvest time. In the future, there will be problems with the food plants used in livestock. Grain stores need to be increased, filled and prepared for possible situations. Today, our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, our Department of Earth crop, has done and done what is necessary. It is also necessary to increase and develop cold air tanks, with the importance of the cold chain. The products that will soon be corrupted must be kept for long periods of time. Building warehouses to meet the country's food needs should also be assessed in terms of national security. It is also important for agricultural products to take the necessary measures in greenhousery, to solidify greenhouses that are established under loptidae conditions and are not based on weather events. Dry agriculture must be weighed in areas where drought can feel intense. In areas such as the cognac closed basin, watery agriculture must be abandoned and alternative products must be activated before underground water runs out. In areas where drought and temperatures rise, water transfer between basins will not be enough to solve the problem. On the other hand, in terms of food safety and supply, the international and national supply chain must also be monitored and alternatives are planned. Precious lawmakers must be put on the agenda, especially in terms of areas facing droughts and areas where climate change will be intense, in terms of gathering villages together, continuing production and preventing internal migrations. In the case of migration, migrations from climate change must also be considered and planned. This must be addressed not only in terms of external migration but also in terms of internal migration. Resistant agricultural cities that the National Movement Party has kept on the agenda since 1969 may be the key to reducing the effects of climate change. Many problems will be solved by our people and farmers as the city moves to the village through resistant agricultural cities. Resistant agricultural cities will have structures that contain water savings, manufacturers, machine parks, contracted agriculture, while disaster-resistant infrastructure will be planned, intelligent urban property. Reuses of water from treatment facilities, streets, parks, planned green cities, where education, health care, security and transport problems have been resolved, which have been sorted out in the source as part of zero waste. Since an animal rights-sensitive, natural-compatible structure will be displayed in agricultural cities, the welfare of our human beings will be created, as well as the loss of labor in agriculture and the balance of ecosystems. Therefore, resistant agricultural cities must be implemented immediately. Dear lawmakers, right now water and agriculture must be treated as a matter of national security, and they both need detailed planning according to new conditions. In terms of water management, waste management and harmonisation, the first thing to be done is to eliminate the disputes and confusion between ministries and general administrations. The environment, water, forest, and climate change should be brought together administratively, and the fight against global climate change that poses a national security problem must be planned around these sensibilities. All of our water polluting resources are needed to be eradicated immediately, focused on how our forest and plant existence will be protected against changes, and in this context, environmental issues will be discussed. Cities are considered ecologically cultural deserts and are areas that block their transition. The plans of cities are also important for global climate change. As it is known, cities are consumption centres for both water and agricultural areas and their products. Therefore, the planning of green areas, water savings, and use of water are vital. Because of this, urbanism and environmental issues are separated, and if we face the effects of climate change, risks can be reduced for our country. Problems in plant production, animal production and water products will affect all areas, including the national security of our country, and fundamentally the economy. The biggest effects will be the challenges of food transportation and internal migration. In both cases, there will be many social problems in the country. These are problems that can happen not only in our country, but all over the world. We see clearly that today's setbacks in the supply chain in England have caused major problems. From this time on, countries that can manage agriculture and water well and have no problems in these areas will be the most powerful countries in the world and the next power. Turkey has the capable human capacity to predict risks ahead of it. With the measures to be developed, the prosperity of the nation can be increased and ensured continuity. Our people deserve it. Precious friends, the Turkish Council's name has been changed to the Turkish State Organization, with the decision taken at the Summit of State Presidents on 12 November 2021, on the 30th anniversary of the independence of Turkish states. I sincerely congratulate you on this important step. However, the problems of agriculture, animalism and climate change need to be sought and searched for effective and permanent co-operation within the Union of the Turkish States. If our world's future is to shape food shortages and climate change problems, the Turkish world's co-operation with solutions to these problems will increase our common power as we overcome problems. In product design studies, water management studies and supply process, the fact that we are a large nation that together produces and is satisfied will also serve to develop common consciousness in the Turkish world. We have to do Turan in agriculture. In closing my remarks, I would like to remind the great Turkish nation that both our Veteran Assembly and the government owe money to the great Turkish nation to act in all areas with healthy insights to adapt to climate change. I salute the General Assembly with the best wishes of the new budget to our nation and our state.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0004par0082	Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0005par0085	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. I salute you all. When it's called the Department of Agriculture, it's also the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and you can't ignore State Water Affairs. I've told you a few times about the State Waterworks here, and I want to repeat it again, especially since the fields in Çukurova have been watered by what we call watering, we need to get the base drains finished quickly and the base water flowing to normal current drainages in order to keep the fields dry. If this is done, the barrenness of the fields will be prevented at once. Again, Seven-Eyes Dam has been built, finished; some of the irrigation systems have been built, but most of the important things haven't been done, so there are now only 20,000 acres of land that can be watered. In order for 730,000 acres of land to be watered, their irrigation systems, their networks need to be completed, so that we can water the land there, and we can contribute to our farmers and our country's economy. Again, these transport drainages, which we call the rivers, the carrier drainages that carry water to the rivers, need to be cleaned often, because when water flows out of the fields, there are involuntary deposits of soil there, and because it prevents the flow of water, it contributes to a very serious meaning, and also prevents the flow of water. And for that, those drainage ducts need to be cleaned up a lot. There's not much to say about meteorology. Meteorology has been doing its job really well in recent years. Before that, it helps our farmers, our people living in our country, to plant crops with early warnings, both warnings of rain and drought, or to best determine the time when they will throw fertilizer; and we thank the authorities. This year, there have been serious problems with the citrus, in our region and elsewhere. In particular, our lemon producers suffered serious losses, which we believe the Ministry of Agriculture will take into account and contribute to our farmers as soon as possible. Our farmers have this expectation because lemon exports haven't been done enough, and since there's a little bit of production in the domestic market, lemon has damaged our people in most places, and we need to contribute to our narcissist manufacturers. Wheat -- we always say -- is a really strategic product. So we've seen through this pandemic process that the food industry is more important than anything else. People can't use their cars when they're locked in their homes, or they can't use what we call luxury tools, but they have to eat and drink, and that's what we call bread, cake, and wheat that comes to people in all kinds of ways, is an important strategic product. Turkey's current need for wheat is 22-23 million tons. Last year's production -- I'm guessing -- was about 18 million tons, so we had to import about 4 million tons of wheat from the outside. We have to get our farmer to plant the wheat, and we need to increase his support, and that's what our farmers expect from the Minister and the Department of Agriculture officials, because the price of fertilizer has increased dramatically depending on the dollar; you certainly see this, and we see it where we travel. So, in order for us to plant wheat for our farmer and increase wheat production for our people, to satisfy the lack of wheat in the food industry, to prevent imports, I think we need to support the wheat, to increase its support, and I want to tell Mr. Secretary, and I want to tell the Ministry officials the expectations of our farmers. Again, about corn... we made a production last year in corn that could satisfy our country's needs, which we already have land, air, water available, thank God. Now that our farmer has learned corn, he sows it, sows it, and harvests it. Thankfully, at last year's prices, our farmer won, but this year's dollar-enhancing fertilizer prices have risen dramatically, and corn prices have now risen to a certain level that depends on him. Our hope is that our farmer can maintain both the premium support, the price of corn, and protect those prices, so that it doesn't harm our farmer. Our farmer's expectations are what our farmer wants from our Ministry because corn is an important product, a product that contributes substantially to both the food industry and the oil industry and the glucose industry. So when we produce the corn, we'll be contributing a lot to the need for raw oil, we'll be contributing a lot to the bait industry, and our farmer will be making money from it. As I just said, we've all seen and seen together that food is the most important thing in the pandemic process, so it will encourage food. We have to support crops like wheat and corn, and we have to add them to the farmer so he can produce farmers, and because he makes money, we have to encourage them to produce more. The prices were good last year, thank God our farmer made money on cotton. But as I said again, since fertilizer prices are so serious, we need to protect and encourage our farmer to maintain those prices next year. I'd like to point out that our farmers still have expectations in cotton bonus benefits. When we increase cotton bonus support, the cotton fields will expand, and more will be planted. So Turkey needs to produce 3.5 million tons of log. When we produce this 3.5 million logs, we'll actually produce both raw oil, the crude oil that we buy from the outside, we'll actually contribute to the raw oil, and we'll contribute to the raw oil, which is what's left of the raw oil, and then we'll contribute to the nutrients that are left over from the raw oil. So both our farmer will win, our country will win, the bait industry will win, and we will seriously block raw oil imports. The most important export entries in Turkey are already in textiles. So last week, at our meeting at Adana, our industrialists -- very good at selling retail products -- said they're doing serious exports these days. E, the raw material of the textile is cotton, so we are able to produce cotton, thank God, our land, our water, our air is available. Our farmer knows cotton, he can sew a team. So, when you add the cotton to our farmer and produce 3.5 million tons of wood, as I said, we're going to be in serious danger of importing raw oil, we're going to be in the way of foreign currency output, and we're going to be developing the raw materials of textile industry. So cotton is also a product that provides employment. That's why you have to encourage and plant cotton. I'm here to tell the Minister and the authorities what our farmers expect in this matter. Dear friends, here, now, of course, last year our farmer, as I said, has made significant profit in corn prices, wheat prices, so it's not right to deny it. So I'm a farmer, a team, a thorn, a brother who sells, but at this year's prices... right now, the price of wheat is going to be around 5,000 liras, maybe 6,000 liras, corn prices are going to go towards maybe 5,000 lira, cotton prices, kilograms, I'm saying with old money, like 15,000 liras. We have to protect these prices. If we don't protect these prices, we open up imports, we crush the farmer under gas and fertilizer prices, we stop our farmer from producing them, which we have to do to encourage our farmer. Of course, when I want them as a farmer... the price of flour is going to go up because the price of wheat is going up, sir, the yield prices will go up, the price of pasta will go up. And from here, we shouldn't be doing any provocation politics. We need to go to our people and tell them about it. So, as farmers, if I want the price of wheat for 5,000 liras and 6,000 liras... we need to tell our people the height of the price of pasta, we need to tell our people why the price of oil is going up. So, if we speak the truth, not the politics of provocation, if we want the truth, if we demand the truth, I believe our farmer will win, and our country will win. (MHP) I believe the government will protect both minimum-payers, pensioners, and very small-income people with no salary through subsidiary, governorship. We need to protect them, too. These people are our people, as a result. I guess we all see how hard it is to get by on minimum wage. We live in society, and when we travel, our people tell us that. I mean, we need to set up the minimum wage and pension here so that our people don't get hurt. I mean, like I said, if I want to win, I have to think about the person in front of me, which is the most affected by our narrow-income people. Therefore, I believe these problems will be solved if government officials protect both our small-income people, the pensioner and the minimum wage, in a serious sense. Again, last year, our farmer was satisfied with corn fees, wheat fees, cotton fees. Hopefully, this year, we'll protect these prices due to the price increase in mazotta, the increase in dollars, the increase in the price of fertilizer.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0006par0097	I hope so.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0005par0098	And when we protect these prices, our farmer will be pleased, but it's still the government's job to protect the small-income because it's going to be reflected in flour prices, pasta prices, bulger prices, and so on, and so on. I salute you all with this feeling, this thought.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0007par0101	Malatya MP Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0008par0103	Mr. President, Mr. Commission, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the budget of our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in 2022. At the beginning of the screens and in our hearts' geography, I salute all our citizens with the most heartfelt of feelings. In the past month, by the direction of our wise leader, our president, we have spread to Anatolia as a group of National Movement Party members to visit the province of Anatolia. During that time, I was in Malatya, Elazig, Siirt, Bitlis, Mush, Tatvan, Van, Urbana, and Adıyaman. In these counties, we met with our farmers, our villagers, our NGOs. We've drawn up a report here, especially from our manufacturers, with our experts at the Ministry of Agriculture -- but since this report is long, I have to fit it into ten minutes -- but after my speech, I'm going to deliver that report to our Minister of Agriculture -- our farmers have common problems in common, because the cost of input is high, and all of these cities that I've visited have a common product in the world, including the production of tobacco, and the production of tobacco, and the international production of the company, and the production of the company. Adıyaman, Malatya, Siirt, Bitlis and Mush are a common source of income in the provinces of Bitlis and Mush. This product, which does not produce large spaces, is not processed in factories, and has access to low-income consumers again, is described as "frequent tobacco" when it is not registered, such as most traditional agricultural products. In fact, these tobacco manufacturers, which were produced locally but were not taxed, do not actually do any smuggling activity. As a result of the regulations for registering and taxing this production, the production is taxed by 40 per cent of the produced co-operative and coiled tobacco, plus an 18 per cent VAT, which is taxed on the market. However, during these legal arrangements, the local manufacturer and companies selling international tobacco products were assessed at the same status. At the coming point, all tobacco produced in factories, only in a small region, was considered to be smoked tobacco. Although some documents, prices reductions have been brought to the manufacturers who produce and co-opportatively on the local scale with the latest legal regulations, taxes have been held in the same way as industrial production, or factory production, and no distribution networks for local production and no sales methods have been determined, so the local product has not been regulated. In this case, even if the manufacturers are cooperative, they will not be able to compete with the distribution, marketing and logistics network of large companies. Although the law was postponed until December 31st, 2021, I personally saw that the manufacturers were unable to operate the process of co-opturing, producing and marketing. With the current legal status, it has been predicted that this cannot be done. It is vital that the issue be evaluated immediately and especially the idea of boutique sales and postponement by the end of December 31, 2023 with all the provisions of the law. It is recommended that the land tax be registered in the fields and organise the boutique sales system for tobacco produced only here. In this way, manufacturers will be able to sell or tax the traditionally produced product by co-operative or family managers or corporations in the retail partners allowed by the tobacco and alcohol market regulators, as well as by recording production. Otherwise, about 35,000 families and 250,000 people who face major income problems, small family operating or trading in marginal agricultural areas will suffer a great loss. We've also made reports here with experts on the solution proposals we received from our farmer. The following is: A new arrangement should be considered that this kind of production is a cultural value, not just an economic activity, but a social arrangement for people living in the marginal area that is oversized. The production of industrial tobacco and tobacco products and traditional, local and small-scale helix production should be arranged separately, without rivals. Tobacco plant producers, registering our farmers: The registration of adıyaman, Malatya, Bitlis, Mush, and Siirt tobacco manufacturers, just like in tea and nuts, must be provided with tobacco producers and allowed to produce documents. It is recommended that local tobacco producer permissions be issued for each producer and forest managers to determine which districts are being produced in the cities mentioned for the expansion of production sites, and not be given new documents on the following date. It is known that the processing of smoked tobacco is being used by hand and by hand only by moisturizing or softening or by small machines, without mixing domestic tobacco in the framework of the methods set in factories, without adding any additional additives, without fermentation, without alcohol treatment. Those who perform this process are both traders and managers, doing it on a small scale and year-on-year basis. They are considered small business owners and traffickers, and they need to be recorded and registered in a simple way, and they need to be able to buy direct products and produce only domestic products. In the natural flow of life, those who produce tobacco are considered farmers, while those who buy it and operate it and put it on sale are considered smugglers. Therefore, it is recommended that these individuals be identified as partners by agriculture and forest and trade district managers and registered as domestic tobacco dealers and butchers. They should only be allowed to operate in the cities of Adıyaman, Malatya, Bitlis, Mush, Siirt, which are allowed to produce domestic tobacco. These permits or documents should not be placed in any way for rent or sale, trade. Editing the boutique sales procedure: These vendors must first apply to the agriculture and forest county administration in their cities and to the trade district office to determine the location of the sale and thus ask for permission to operate. The authority to evaluate these demands and determine the conditions for domestic tobacco sales should be in the office of the Office of Tobacco and Alcohol. The Office of Concerning should allow these sales points to operate only on the condition that they sell domestic and self-driving helixed tobacco. It should be sold only by boutique domestic tobacco dealers. In short, other than the common tobacco products, such as cigarettes and cigars, commonly known and consumed throughout the world, some products are produced in local conditions and are available on special occasions. In our country, domestic helixed tobacco, which has a local production and consumption culture, is such a product. This production is traditional and has a history of about two centuries. Adıyaman, Malatya, Mush, Bitlis and Siirt are produced in certain counties in our country. This production is very small-scale, with a maximum of 30,000 tons per year. It is not possible, and it is not practical, for this production to be regulated, such as industrial-type production -- 30,000 tonnes -- that hold a very small area of 1.5.2 per cent in our country's annual consumption of 1.5 million tonnes of tobacco and tobacco. With this arrangement, about 25,000 families, including about 10,000 families living off production and processing and selling, live in rural areas, marginal farmland and under extremely weak socioeconomic conditions.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0009par0111	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0008par0112	The people who deal in these products move from city to city in cities and in the big city, making the sale and processing of this traditional tobacco product unregistered because they do not have a regular job and other skills and means without income. It is also known that tobacco and tobacco products produced in this way are also consumed by people who live in rural areas or who work in small businesses that require cheap labor in cities. This domestic tobacco production will ensure the normalisation of production and the protection of this traditional culture, as a boutique sale and trade of a niche production will be conducted on a registered simple trade and the prevention of the state's loss of tax revenues. As I end my words, I hope our budget will be a blessing to our country, to our nation, and to our country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0010par0116	In turn, Kırıkkale MP Halil Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0011par0119	Mr. President, I stand before you to present the views of the National Movement Party on the budgets of the Justice Department, the Supreme Court and the Prosecutorate's Office in 2022. I salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation, watching us at the beginning of their screens. Respected MPs, the most fundamental difference between man and other beings is the sense of justice and the need rather than the mind. Justice is a spiritual bond between a citizen and a state. The stronger we can make this bond, the more powerful our government will be. Because as great civilizations in history rise with justice, so will those who can't keep up with the sun of justice. Throughout history, many thinkers, scientists, religious leaders, judgment leaders, and others have thought about the concept of justice and have written in words. Many centuries ago, Joseph Has Hacib wrote: "If you want your state to be permanent, try to work with justice, do not be persecuted." When he gave advice, he gave similar advice in Nizamülmülmülmüld. Again, the day you buy the woman, Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, justice dies, the day you kill justice, the state dies. The word points to the direct and strong link between the state and justice. The great Turkish states established in our glorious history have also acquired justice. Dear lawmakers, the modern-day system of law that will satisfy our people's sense of justice will also regulate relations between our people and will make the right sense of justice greater for society. It is also proven by scientific studies and intelligence that the economic, social, technological development of a developed country has a quality justice system at its core. We need to be able to co-ordinate a fair and powerful justice system in the framework of annual budgets, where the individual is based in respect of human rights, not on punishment, but on reforming, full judicial independence, the judicial guarantee is a requirement. The quality of our justice system and its rights will be independent. Because independent justice is the cornerstone of the rule of law. ▪ The rule of law will be fulfilled with the ability of all institutions and organizations to make this understanding in a modern and adequate way. In this regard, our justice system should never and will never be delivered to a certain group or group, always carefully aim for the rule of law, so that it can be achieved. Honourable MPs, the Judicial Reform Strategy Document was announced by Mr. President on May 30, 2019 and received strong support from our President and party. In this scope, Turkey has imposed five different judicial reforms on our system since 2019, by renewing its perpetual legislation in order to adhere firmly to the improved values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Recently, however, it is not possible to accept the arrogant, threatening and illegitimate approaches of some countries' ambassadors, some institutions of Europe, regarding a legal process conducted by the independent judiciary. We address these so-called two-standard people who have ignored the decisions that the European Court of Human Rights has previously made for different countries that have not been implemented for years, which Turkey will not listen to your cheap threats. In this regard, we strongly reject and condemn these statements, particularly in an effort to keep the Kavala case on the agenda, politicizing legal processes and pressuring the Turkish judiciary. Respected lawmakers, all of our dedicated employees in our court have expectations of the budget of 2022. The creation of the class of justice services is of considerable importance in the Law of State Officers No. 657. On the other hand, the clerk who took important responsibility and worked overtime in the execution of justice services, the bailiff, the trustees of trust, the treasurer of supervised freedom, the bailiff, the executive officials; the managers of executive, editorial work and supervised freedom; the information processing officers; and the essence, economic and financial rights of nurses and health officers in technical staff and in prison must be improved. Again, first of all, we need to be able to restore our execution officers to the rights of our security forces, who are doing the same work in the same environment as I mentioned in the Plan and Budget Commission. In addition, it would be a great prospect to have a staff of contracted execution guards and other contractors within the Ministry in 2022. Justice services, however, would be appropriate to increase compensation rates and additional indicators. In this regard, we also think that the workers of justice should not be deprived of 3,600 additional indicators. Again, we should be able to provide enough overtime for our death guard, the recognition of the right to wear out, the introduction of a rotational work system, the ability to provide housing and daycare facilities, and most importantly, enough pensions when they retire. Members of the Supreme Court will retire and be forced to return to the bench six years later, since the mandate of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court has been limited to 12 years. The separation of experienced and senior members of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will negatively affect the judiciary. We said that when high-judgment members leave when they're the most efficient, they'll have a negative effect on the judiciary. Therefore, the extension of the mandates of high-judgment members to more than 12 years, or limiting them to 65 years, would have solved an important problem in this area. Again, it will also make them more confident that the staff of student judges committed to the HSK, such as transfers, promotions, rights of identity, and so on. That way, they won't have to worry about changing positions every year with the decrees issued. On the other hand, the new experience of the Supreme Court will allow experienced judges to work in high judgment instead of few judges. Again, the equivalence and fiscal conditions of all high-judgment judges and prosecutors will also ensure justice with members of the Constitutional Court. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Honourable MPs, with the strong support of the Cumhur Alliance, we believe that our Minister will not ignore our proposals. I also congratulate Mr. Abdulhamit Gul, our Minister of Justice, and the Ministry's bureaucracy for their valuable and successful work. On this occasion, the National Movement Party wishes the central management budget of 2022 to bring blessings to our nation and our country, and I salute the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0012par0130	It's up to Mr. Yücel Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0013par0133	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the Veteran Assembly. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our Republic, is not all about making laws of the last independent Turkish state, but rather everything is about enforcing and enforcing those laws. He summing it up in the form of the law. I think he's shown a basic definition and a basic vision that will remain valid today and then shed light on the problems today. Every day we meet a new one, and every morning the beginning of a new justice debate is based on the lack of this vision that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has shown. The issues that concern the cries of citizens of the Republic of Turkey every day are not due to Turkey's lack of legislation, but because of the lack of qualified implementation, we must all accept now. Instead of actually preferring qualified practitioners -- especially over the last two centuries, we have to think of Ottomans as a balance issue -- rather than as a fundamental criteria for the implementation of qualified appliances -- the fact that inadequate staffs have become dominant, and the guarantee of peace and peace, I'm afraid, has led the judiciary's function to an unsatisfactory point. Thus, in Turkey, we must all work together with a common mind, not only with the judiciary, but with the underprivileged problem of the entire bureaucracy. The main expectation of the citizen is that both the government, us, the Parliament, the Justice Minister here today, and the Department of Justice should open the way for a quick supply and facility with the hands of staffs whose equipment and competence are not suspected of being fair and impartial, but also, by the hands of judges, prosecutors, by the hands of judges and prosecutors. Now, during the year 2020-2021 in this Parliament, we accepted, enforced, and enforced many packages that came under the name "judgment reform." I don't think both the government and the opposition, our political parties, have a fundamental objection to their existence. An important part of these packages came under the name "judgment reform" was regulations that included integration of legislation into technological developments in Turkey, and each one was necessary, but we have to agree that when these were faced with the problems we face today, they remained in a revision rather than a judicial reform. So I have no doubt that we need a judicial reform, not a judicial revision, but that we all agree with the Justice Department today, as well as with our lawmakers. So, how do we move from judicial revision to judicial reform, and what needs to be done? As I have just stated in Turkey, the primary and primary problem of the judicial organization is not the problem of legislation, the primary and primary problem is the qualitative problem, and the long-term trials are out of control long enough to cause serious loss of rights. So we have to bring about an effective reform, not a revision of courage. In this framework, I'd like to point out that the district courts and adjudicial courts, which have been debated throughout the history of the Republic, have a back plan of about a hundred years, and ultimately have been implemented by the political power, have to be put into perspective together. The law of the litigation courts entered our lives with the belief that the Judiciary would reduce the workload a little bit and speed up the trials, due to the fact that the law of the court of law had been well-intentioned in the academic framework over the years, but today, in actual practice, the district courts and law courts did not provide that result. In addition to the five-year Supreme Court phase, it added five years and another three years to the six-year trial files. So you have to listen to the cries of every lawyer who performs this profession. Again, it is necessary to listen to the cries of citizens who have been dragging their files for years, and to accept that they have added three years, four years, five more years to their judicial proceedings, and to consider all proposals for solutions, including the immediate removal of the judicial reform of regional courts and property courts, if necessary, to every political power for years, such as a recommendation of a radical solution, such as a good news proposal, but not a result. In the meantime, the litigation courts extended the judicial process, with the fact that our qualified judges, judges and prosecutors withdrew from their first-degree courts and were assigned to the district courthouses, and the podiums, unfortunately, became positions and positions where our inexperienced judges and prosecutors completed their routine internship. Thus, law enforcement courts must have the most important agenda for the judiciary in Turkey in 2022. Another thing is that for years, unfortunately, our highly qualified, well-equipped prosecutors have to be dealt with very quickly by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, whose energy, savings, and equipment we can't use. Here, our experienced prosecutors, who have worked as managers and managers all over Anatolia, who have served in titled decrees, are actually considered to be drawn to the sled -- they are kept in the cumbersome structure of the Supreme Court Public Prosecutor's Office without any use. At the same time, it is the basic and real problem of the citizen's criminal trials -- citizens waiting for the first-degree court to be sent to the Supreme Court for an appeal immediately, waiting for the case to come out of the Supreme Court for an investigation with no legal value, for about two years or three years. Therefore, the immediate overhaul of this institution by considering the cries of our citizens who have been forced to wait three years for the notice of the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office, which will do the review, which will be subject to a more effective point in which our high-energy and experience will serve the state, has been immediately removed from the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court Attorney's Office, which is unnecessary, unnecessary and unresponsive; this institution has become more effective, more costless and more useful for the state, and has become the citizens of our citizens of our state, and even the citizens of our law. Another concern is that in order to obtain qualified appliances, an effective system of merit and promotion between our judges and prosecutors needs to be established quickly, a promotion system that will make a difference between our judges and prosecutors, who are working, producing, disciplined, and our prosecutors, and those who do not show proper precision in this matter, and who will maintain their faith in the rights of employees. Mr. President, the election, which will take place in 2023 and just in time, also coincides with the 100th year of our republic. The election, which will take place in 2023, is clearly intended to be removed from being a choice by some parts and dynamics and to be converted into a reckoning with the Turkish state, the Turkish nation. Strong data on the efforts of the ambassadors of some countries with diplomatic diplomatic representation in our country to interfere in our democratic political lives by disregarding diplomatic issues and on the one hand and on the other, the perception operations of social media platforms controlled by global companies towards the Turkish nation almost every day, and the sneaky traps of reputations and assassinations. In 2023, it was not only with the Cumhur Alliance, but with all aspects of our President's desire to settle a score with the Republic of Turkey. The U.S. President Biden said he would support the opposition in Turkey, the attempted intervention of some ambassadors on the legal condition of a person arrested by judicial bodies, the fact that some opposition journalists and broadcast organs have been found to enjoy their ugly share of our president's ugly social media account, the fact that some diplomatic representatives have held a meeting on Turkey's elections in a neighbouring country for the first time, the introduction of their feet to Turkish elections, and the opening of their efforts to support the international law of some ambassadors and the media's campaigns in Turkey's media, have been open in a way that for the first time.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0014par0142	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0013par0143	In these days, all elements of the global system attempt to intervene in Turkish politics, we have to make it clear that, regardless of your purpose and goal, we love every citizen of the Republic of Turkey, every human being of every worldview, but global forces, who once again intend to force Turkey to fight the national struggle, must know that the sons of this Parliament and the children of the Turkish nation are determined not to wipe out the signature of the Amasya Tamimi in 1919. (MHP and AK PARTY) The Turkish nation will again decide the future of the Turkish nation's determination and decision, which will decide. If you intend to deal with the President, all we're going to tell you is that less is more.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0014par0145	In turn, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bkent Karataş. Here you go, Mr. Karastone.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0015par0148	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to address the Turkish Human Rights and Equality Foundation budget. I salute your grand delegation and the Veterans Assembly. Dear lawmakers, today is the 10th of December World Human Rights Day. The 73rd anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. On such a meaningful day, I'd like to give you a brief report on our country's prestigious institution, the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey and its activities. Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution is an institution established in accordance with the international legislation in which Turkey is a party to human rights, which has administrative and financial autonomy, has a special budget, is responsible for its public corporate personality, and is associated with the Minister of Justice appointed by the President. Its aim is to protect and improve human rights, to work to ensure equal treatment, to fight torture and abuse effectively, Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Institution operates as a reliable, efficient and respected institution. The institution, which forms an institutional model, has combined three basic tasks under a single and powerful institutional roof to implement a more efficient institutional model. Dear lawmakers, human rights are the rights of human beings, most commonly known, regardless of language, religion, race, gender, nationality, social status, and color. Human rights are based on the recognition that all people are equal and free in respect of right and dignity. The basic principles of human rights: universality, indivisibility, and intransitability. These principles and fundamental issues regarding human rights are determined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, where we will leave behind the 73rd anniversary of its adoption today. Seventy-three years have passed since the acceptance of this important declaration, but today, unfortunately, we face the most severe paintings of human rights violations worldwide. In particular, in recent years human rights violations around the world have reached extreme levels, and it seems to be becoming increasingly severe. The increasing number of anti-Muslims and anti-Muslim protests year after year, and the lack of effective solutions to racist and foreign attacks has even increased the reality of the situation. Today, Europe is critical of other countries in its own interest, and in violation of the basic principles of human rights, religion, language and so on, it is differentializing people. For example, some European countries' attitudes towards Syrian refugees have rejected asylum demands without justification and forced extradition are the clearest indicators of human rights violations in Europe. Today, the world is watching the cases of repatriation in Greece. The United Nations also announced that Greece's moves meant a clear violation of the 1951 Refugee Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights, and the European Union's law. Again, as we left the 77th year of their exile last month, the Ahiska Turks set an example of one of the most painful paintings of right violations. As you know, there have been multiple violations of human rights against those who have been exiled in the process, especially in minority rights, discrimination, international law, immigration issues, political problems. About 17,000 Turks and Muslims who live in Sasquatch have been expelled from their homeland in a matter of hours, while about 17,000 Turks of Ahıska have lost their lives from hunger, cold and disease.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0016par0155	Here, pick it up, Mr. Blackstone.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0015par0156	Dear lawmakers, I would like to say that those who have the authority to judge countries who are trying to teach about human rights violations must reconsider their own report card. As I end my words, I respectfully salute our General Assembly, and I pray that our 2022 budget will be good for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0016par0159	In turn, Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0017par0162	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I wish you God's mercy on our children who were killed in a treasonous attack, and patience on their families, and my condolences on our nation. May my Lord help and protect the Turkish nation. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Today I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to assess the personal data protection agency budget. I salute your honorable committee. In its simplest definition, any information that makes individuals' identities known is personal data. In the late 20th century, technological advances accelerated the momentum of the 21st century, which quickly adapted to that acceleration. In the last 15 years, there have been two steps, two by two, toward cyber breakthroughs and large data pools. At a time when capitalism and imperials started digital warfare, the concept of protecting personal data we're talking about should be in charge of planning and programming for the future of countries, and the measures and infrastructure prepared by governments in the face of dizzying acceleration should be constantly renewed. In our country, the protection of personal data was legalized in 2016 and the necessary arrangements began at the right time. During the process of taking the necessary measures in Turkey, when the legal infrastructure is broadly organised, the most important work of the Institute for Protection of Personal Data is to create awareness in society. It is the concept that every citizen should be aware that personal data that is protected by the law extends from credit card information to a photo taken in a friendly environment. Today, the disclosure of the dues debt in common in a website violates the Personal Data Protection Act, including sharing personal information. A sign of how difficult it is for us to preserve our culture in the developing world is, unfortunately, that such values are so corrupted that they can't be protected by social norms and traditions that they need the law. However, it is the nature of the Turkish community that is dedicated to the concepts of secularism, and not offending. Members of parliament, the situation that brings the protection of personal data to the main focus is the spread of the virtual world. At a time when we thought we were at the height of the age of knowledge, pandemics saw the real summit of cyber-life, and people living in homes both in our country and in the world have made mandatory introductions to the virtual world. In almost every area of life we do e-commerce, the random clicks and digital footprints are recorded and are stored in the common pool, meaning through systems. Society engineers can now easily obtain this information from these pools. So, where are these pools, who has them, who controls them? The most important thing here is that still economic inequality, physical boundaries, racial and religious discrimination continue with its full existence in real life, while the virtual world that technology offers eliminates all inequalities, bringing happiness to the person who does not exist in the virtual world at the level of happiness at the level of addiction. Such ease reminds us of an expression in Anatolia: "If cheese is big and the distance is short, the mouse must think about it once more. " The human body can be yogurted and shaped. In data pools, artificial intelligence and perceptions based on the sociocultural level of communities are governed and are used to being used as reasonable and normal. In this case, it shouldn't be difficult for the person whose identity, direction, loved ones, bought, feared, all of them to be able to be analyzed in some way, to be able to be yogurted in any way by the analysts. The threat of the development of human life being manipulated by an artificial intelligence is frightening, and it is not a conspiracy theory. In order to protect the institutions, citizens, and identities of the states, they must be able to analyze the data themselves, direct the changes of weakness and change in social transformation to the public's benefit. The responsibility of the state falls to our citizens as well. Because the artificial reality created in the virtual environment is fueled by egoistic approaches in the face of the interests of society to absorb ideas and dynamics that are not in the natural and cultural flow of society. With digital and artificial intelligence, Turkey must take its place in the new super-smart society model of the society 5.0 transformation. To do so, the benefits of the rapid integration of young and dynamic population into the digital world must be used. A solid infrastructure and firewall should be the leading player in the formation of the national system to play by its own rules in the formation of this model of society. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Turkey has provided large public services through its practices, such as e-state, e-nabiz and ▪Life Saves Eve. Despite the tabloid interpretations of HES code, the benefit of controlling the number of viruses in the pandemic is inevitable. These comments have delayed the spread of practice, but have created awareness of the importance of personal data in our citizens. In the preservation of large data obtained by all of these applications, the process that has come with great success and confidence has to be carried out in the same way so far.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0018par0174	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0017par0175	With a nation that trusts in its government, we are confident that we will soon see the days that our country deserves, and that we will see the days promised by Hakk. I hereby wish the 2022 budget to be good for the Turkish nation, and salute your honorable delegation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0018par0178	In turn, it belongs to Bursa MP Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboglu. Here you go, Mr Vahaboglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0019par0181	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have taken a pledge on the final account of 2020 fiscal years and the National Ministry of Defence budget of 2022. On this occasion, our martyrs, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, theban of our republic, and his comrades in arms, remember our veterans who have been forever, with mercy, gratitude and gratitude, still serving in and abroad, our heroic soldiers and police, our security guards, I salute all of our living veterans, their disability, and our Veteran Assembly. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the main focus of both our region and Turkish geography in all global-sized control fights. The purpose of the establishment, global security and, therefore, the whole of international institutions, which are to ensure the peace of mankind, are in the position to serve their short, medium, or long-term accounts, in the direction of one or several countries. For example, the United Nations, NATO and OSCE assets have become controversial organizations. In particular, the alliances in our country and the so-called allies of our countries must be questioned about their attitude towards Turkey. While the countries and alliances in question act as if they are walking with us, they are working with our enemies in plain sight. It's too late to call me a wishy- wishy-washy on purpose. The parameters that concern our safety, therefore our national defense, are significant changes in global and regional dimensions. The belief that the United States no longer sees Turkey as a strategic partner, even in security and foreign policy, has become common in a country that should be controlled in the multipolar world, even as a force. This has become common in the media and opinion clubs of countries in the Western bloc, particularly the United States. In fact, there is talk of Turkey being remembered and targeted with China. While the United States is seeking to normalize its relations with Iran and Russia, Turkey is referred to as a force that must be stopped while seeking to resolve many of the problems called unresolved by soft transitions. Even our citizens are now questioning this alliance. More recently, Turkey, one of the countries in the European press, which it has called the best customer of the major forces, has increased its dependence on the defence industry by more than 60 per cent, aimed at providing and exporting its needs from the country. This has become a problem for NATO's only supplier. These countries have begun special planning for Turkey. The concrete version of America's special strategy for the Middle East is what they call the Abrahamic Accords. As a result of the implementation of these agreements, new alliances have been formed in the Middle East, where the cards have been recommitted and most of the countries with problems with Turkey have been led. Until recently, these alliances resulted in the disarming of the Turkish-Iran-Pakistan current north of the Middle East, which was considered a key region, and the taking of its place at the intersection of Europe and the Indian-Pacific region, the South Middle East. The new accent controls the passage of Asia-European both through the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf. The countries on this accent are the problem as a demographic structure, whose economy is mainly based on oil and oil products; the majority, their main sympathy, their obedience to Britain, the United States and France. In the restored Middle East balance, the strategic position is located in Israel, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. These countries should be expected to take part in significant changes in the region in the coming process. In addition, the United States, which is the main quarterback, is not letting the Caucasus go, there are developments that are sometimes tensed with the three of Iran, Armenia, Georgia, but often considered promising for those countries. The fact that Bulgaria and Romania are NATO countries in the Balkans, as well as the concrete indications that Ukraine is entering NATO, and that the United States is planning $250m in military assistance to Ukraine, is on the way to immediate use of 150 million of it, prompts Russia, the former quarterback of the region, to worry and to develop countermeasures. The military bases established by the United States and intended to build in these countries continue to destabilise regional security. It is important to use the ports of Bulgaria and Romania to try to shape Russian-Ukraine relations, especially with the sea force that has been smuggled into the Mediterranean, and to show the extent that the danger can be achieved, rather than diplomacy. Furthermore, the establishment of military ports in the Black Sea, or the United States, in the Black Sea, will soon be able to force Montrö's Convention to re-enact the Law of the Butchers. In the past four years, countries such as Greece, Israel, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have entered a major arms race. These countries are paying the price by receiving a large amount of weapons and ammunition from their Aghas because of their duties and positions in the new Middle East balance that I have just expressed. These weapons and instruments of war will not be used for the benefit of mankind or for organic agriculture, they will be used for bloodshed. Perhaps these countries will cause new regional wars in the near future, but these countries, who do not have the ability to wage war with their own forces, are expected to support existing terrorist organisations or new terrorist organizations that they will likely uncover. It is remarkable that Greece has become the state between NATO states, which has spent the most money on defending illegal domestic product after the United States. Not only that, Greece invited the United States to establish new bases in the country, and new bases for US air, sea and land units were formed in this country. With the means to move forward, Greece is deploying America from Crete Island to the bottom of Turkey. The primary goal of these deployments is our country, which is in NATO, which is the same alliance with the two countries, Turkey. Since 1947, Greece has been arming unclaimed islands and reefs in the sea of islands, constantly invading these areas. This is not the issue of today, it comes from 1947 to today, and Turkey is a country that has been trained as a target in military academys and diplomatic schools as a territory that must be completely seized. As an example of this country's activities, you also need to see the improvements leading up to changing Macedonia's name as a result of pressure on Macedonia. The defence and military co-operation agreements of Greece with France and the United States, as stated by Mr. State Gardener. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the things that needs to be discussed under the parameters affecting our security is the state of possession of nuclear weapons. Although the first North Korean to come to mind is called the nuclear weapon, it is also the improvements in the Islamic world that should be carefully monitored by Iran's efforts to have nuclear weapons, which have seen the Turkish nation as a natural rival throughout history, and in some cases as an opponent. Iran's possession of nuclear weapons is also to be considered, not only will it upset the balance of Iran-Israel, but also the behavioral disorders that Iran, which it has been unable to suppress, such as the idea of becoming a leader, could have caused by the new position in the region. The Chinese-US race, which includes the Indian and Pacific Ocean regions and is now the cause of global chaos, should not be distracted. Even if it is unlikely that this race will turn into a mutual gunfight, it is not limited to the region of any tension created, but to the point that globally, especially the economy, it has the ability to destabilise. Congressmans, another issue is the issue of bioweapons. Regarding bioweapons, it is considered to be the ultimate weapon for victory in the new world war, which should not be thrown into the wild and should be watched carefully. They agree that a third world war will be carried out with biological weapons. Turkey does not have biological or chemical weapons due to the agreements it is on. However, there is information that the United States, Russia, China, and even some sources suggest that Israel and France have been interested in the work of biological and chemical weapons for years. In these days, when a virus locks the world, stops life, hits economies, kills millions of people, it is a fact that measures against it will not be enough to deal with in a limited way, only in a defensive way. In addition to providing weapons and ammunition to the PKK for years, the countries we have been in the same alliance have served as a centre for housing, training, treatment, falsifying documents, providing money. Almost all of these countries are the countries we consider allies and are part of NATO. According to the Washington Agreement, NATO's primary duty is to protect the freedom and security of member states by political and military means. The Alliance should form a community of common values. I'd like to point out that France's recent assistance to the PKK by the United States using a concrete factory in Syria as an excuse for the DEAŞ. The origins of weapons and ammunition seized from this organization bring up the subject of reevaluation of alliances. In the face of increasingly ugly forces, Turkey's influence is a state that should be global. Turkey must be the hope of our region, the Turkish world, the Islamic world, the oppressed and the victimized humanity. Turkey's responsibility extends from the Yakut Turk in Yakutistan to Mapuches in Chile, from the Eskimos in the Northern Hemisphere to the South African Indians and Australian Aborigines. To do that, he has to be involved in all international organizations and influence them in some way, if possible, to direct them for the sake of his humanity. Turkey must have such an influence on Islamic countries that it should be the greatest force in Turkey's relations with the West. And again, Turkey must transform its relations with the West to an advantage in the Islamic world. Turkey must lead the formations that will ensure the common defence of the Turkish world. So Turkey has to be strong on every condition and ground. Mr. President, despite the development of our age and the spread of technology, the human factor is always important. The Turkish Armed Forces must always be strong and deterrent with the elements of the sea, air, land. As given today, the Turkish Armed Forces must constantly feel the presence of a determined political authority behind them in the future. The military profession is a special profession, a philosophy and style of life. The qualifications and psychological specialties required by this profession can only be won in military schools through military teachers and instructors who have absorbed military service. Military upper secondary schools, which have been closed under consideration, must be reopened. They have military doctors and military hospitals, trained on the basis of military status, owned by all armies around the world. This also applies to countries whose neutrality is accepted by the world, such as Switzerland. It is not possible for civilian physicians to provide military surgery for each major and military psychiatry for the basic needs of the soldier. ▪ We meet this with civilian hospitals and doctors or we do it. It should not be respected for those who show up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0020par0194	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0019par0195	Despite technological advances, human factors have always been important in every sector. Our military's administrative, financial and social rights must be adapted to the risks of duty, responsibility, and exposure, which requires detailed work to improve their pension rights. The positions and fees of the major and senior majors serving in the Turkish Armed Forces must be corrected. Contracted officers and petty officers serving in the Turkish Armed Forces need to be recruited. Petty Officers serving in the Turkish Armed Forces need to be initiated from level 9 to level 2 of education, based on the initial and educational status of their positions of employment, and to correct their rights to retirement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0021par0199	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0019par0200	In particular, measures that will ensure that our children who have been injured in the fight against terrorism, but are not considered veterans, are granted the right to be veterans, and the rights of contractors and privates to improve their rights. As the MHP Group, we will vote yes to the National Ministry of Defense budget, with respect to the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit01spe0021par0203	I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0021par0001	Congressmans, I open the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. We now begin the talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first statement is from Mersin MP Ridvan Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0022par0008	Mr. General Assembly and our dear people watching us at the beginning of the screen, the excuse for the economy is evidence of incompetence, lack of employment, and an indication of introvertion, and the evidence of loss of recolte, price instability, courtship and drought is evidence of the same inefficiency and incompetence. Is it just the drought and the increase of courtship, dear friends, or is it just the Minister of Agriculture, an agricultural policy and defender who has made the country open to global turmoil, not protecting the farmer? I'd like to point out, aside from some of the most valuable bureaucrats, what would have happened if it weren't for the current Minister and the Ministry? I'll give you the answer: it wouldn't have been any worse, what's happening now or what can't be happening now would've been the same or not. We've been budgeting together for three years, and at the end of the third year, I find it pointless to address the Minister, and I'm calling on the Minister from the top to resign. A minister who has not listened to any of our goodwill proposals for three years and therefore has failed to do so should not sit in that chair and resign immediately. For example, we face the reality of a minister who can't defend his budget against us against dollars. There are valuable farmers on the screen, precious farm workers; there are small-scale producers in the agricultural budget; there are no landless villagers; there are no women farmers, there are seasonal workers; there are investors; there are merchants. And it's basically a no-budget rule. If the budget law is to be considered, an additional budget is mandatory. Because in the medium-term programme, the agricultural budget, designed over $9.27 per dollar, remained solid because the dollar is now up to $14. According to budget law, an additional budget must be made. See, I'm telling you, the Minister can't defend the budget he's so hard on us against the dollar. If he had defended it against the dollar, he would have said: "We will make an additional budget." He would have demanded an additional budget, but since we know what kind of function the ministers are equipped with, we certainly know that no minister will dare. Why did he have to ask for an additional budget? The increase in the ribbon is obvious. Farmers on the screen, basically, you know very well that agricultural support is about $25.8 billion this year, but trust me, it doesn't matter. When their 2021 support had just been announced, the Minister said: "We are going to explain 90 percent of it. " He clearly misled the farmer, but his 2020 supports were not even complete. On November 11th, when the support was announced, the dollar was dry, friends, and was worth $2 billion, 603 million. Now, considering the increase in currency, which is $11 billion, which is going to be paid in 2023, has been melted due to the increase of $11 billion in currencies -- if it's right -- but the minister doesn't have the courage to go out and talk about it against the President. Our valued peasant citizens on the screen were $22 billion last year, support, at the time it was $8.00, and that amounted to 38.5 billion. Aside from the input increases since last year, even the budget has melted 14 billion liras where it stands, dear friends. It's not just the meltdown of the budget, it's the meltdown of the support, but the inputs have increased. We contribute 25 percent to the bomb, we increase the support. You said, "We have increased the fertilizer by over 500 percent." Thirty-one times in 16 months, the fertilizer has been raised. The DAP price of fertilizer went from $3,000 to $14.250, the turpentine was $10,800 on December 1st, with no increase, look, twice in a row, and it's now up to $14.250, and the diesel is over $10. See how our precious people on the screen condemn you to hunger by the dry release of power, how the shooting increases food inflation: let's see, last May, President said that the wheat would be paid between $2,250 and $2,450 a ton by Earth Mahuls. The small farmer sold his wheat at this level, more or less. On November 25th, the ton was raised to $4,300, buying, stockpiling, and winning. The land crop office then sold over $4,000 of its wheat to the manufacturer of flour for $2,500, so that the wheat it imported from the outside wouldn't be increased; and the flour industrialist also won. Yes, it's certainly important that the bread doesn't rise, and there has been an extraordinary loss of duty here. The loss of this commission also fell on the back of a citizen who would again consume bread with indirect taxes. So I'm assuming that this kind of gin-mindedness is just this power, but, of course, 30 percent of the bread is made up of flour as input. The increase of the other inputs, with the increase of the other spending pencils, has taken an inevitable increase in bread and its head. So that's how inflation increases the cost of life. Our precious people on the screen, the rules don't matter. It means leaving the citizen without bread. The merchant, the hoarder, has earned money, the flour industrialist has earned money, even good bad bread makers have earned money; what about the farmer? The farmer didn't make any money, but he left the agricultural fields more and more intensively than he could earn. With our producers on the screen, such incompetence, for God's sake, do we need an outside altar in this country? Look, the harvest has just finished, the wheat's ton is up to about $400; eight months from now, this Ministry doesn't have the slightest plan for what we're going to find in the next harvest, they're going to import it again if they have money. Given that there will be about 16 million tonnes of wheat in the coming period, Turkey will obviously need another production of about 6 million tonnes of wheat, given that it has decreased by 3 million tonnes since 2 periods. The wheat fields that have grown from 9.5 million hectares to 7 million hectares, the factors, such as the population has risen from 53 million to 83 million, show us how important production is. However, 2 million hectares, over 300 kilos of wheat per grain, would not require import policies, and there would be no shortage of wheat in the country, but there is no such perspective of power. In the Commission's phase of the budget, the wheat was made for four-something liras per kilo, and now -- not a month later -- is now up to $6. The manufacturer's only problem isn't in, it's in nature, it's also in the wrong foreign policy. Following a militant policy in the region also leads to this farmer's major problems. Precious citizens on the screen, look, the TÜİK announced an inflation of 21st percent. However, I have a chart that shows how much fresh fresh fruit and vegetables increase; like the lemon chief, when lemon comes to the market with 40 cents in its branch, the rate of increase is more than 700 percent; immediately the dry onions follow it; tangerines, spinach, carrots, carrots -- whatever is on the table of the poor citizen has been raised less than 100 percent. Now, the government assumes that this problem will be solved by printing warehouses, holding chain markets responsible, activating agricultural loan co-ops with the new state law. The problem itself is the agricultural mentality of power. There's no way to solve this problem with any of these police methods. We are the first in Europe in the GDP. When you say that, essentially, the Minister is not talking about foreign trade. What are we getting? What are we selling? In view of the matter, we can see that this size is a very hypothetical magnitude, and that growth is not becoming a pencil in the favor of the farmer, the poor, the laborer, the landless peasant in any way. We face the fact that 3.5 million hectares of agricultural land -- 2 Thracians -- are drowning in concrete; the fact that more than 611,000 farmers have withdrawn from agriculture; the fact that according to BDK data 92.5 per cent of farmers have mortgaged their farm; the fact that power has reduced the number of people working in agriculture with 7,500,000 people. And the Court reports. Let me be clear, there's corruption in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry because it's written in pencils, the Court reports show the extent of corruption. Also, the fact that 61 people who are incompetent to the T.K.D.K. -- even though there are others in that institution who are qualified -- were taken into the KPSS as officers just because they were close to power -- shows us another extent of corruption. Last time I asked, how many farmers do they owe to the Bank of Agriculture? They said they were commercial secrets, they couldn't say, but we're dealing with a farmer's debt, which is more than 220 billion, which is more difficult to pay. There are no seasonal farm workers in this budget. However, the seasonal agricultural workers lose their lives every year because they can't get enough where they're from, where they're born, because of the policies of this government. While all this is going on, Fahrettin Poyraz is allowed to receive more than $150,000 from 11 places and other bureaucrats like him; although I don't get 150, I get 60 or so. He said, "But it's cooled us down." Again, dear friends, the decline of forests, the decline of forests, the intense loss of forest in the last year's fires, is another problem.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0023par0023	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0022par0024	The village of Mazi and nearby villages in Gökova have been declared a renewable energy source. The precious friends, thousands of olive trees and villages are in danger. I salute the villagers from here, and I want to express to you that we will, and we will, and we will stop this evil going on. The region, which includes the Minister's 780,000-acre forest and 35,000 olive trees, is also being given coal mines to supply coal to the Mugla Termic Plant. The forest had already burned there at 65,000 hectares. Yes, these are the actions of the Minister of Agriculture of this power. At the point where we're here, wetlands and lakes are dry, and I can't say it all over here, but finally, friends, we need a new agricultural philosophy. In favor of agriculture workers, in favor of ecology... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a new philosophy. However, and only this way can we address agricultural questions in this country. I salute you all and the agricultural workers on the screen.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0024par0030	İstanbul MP Oya Ersoy is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0025par0033	I salute the General Assembly and our people. Not much, but in the last three months, the AKP has nailed the court's coffin to the coffin. This power is now politically living dead. Yeah, we're not talking about budgets here, and we've seen how your Home Secretary is defined as the Minister of Crime, and how he provokes Congress not to answer allegations of his crimes. We witnessed his last struggle, and you took care of him. You know what you own? The billing sound of the nobleman's printer, the powder sugar, is the photographs taken by drug traffickers, the plane of Sezgin Baran, the scum hiding behind the literature of the country, the abominations, and the House is clearly a chore for the palace. If he could, he'd put a man on 600 seats here. Yeah, isn't the council's almost most important job budgeting? Everyone knows that this budget is not the budget of the people or the House. This budget is the budget of the palace. Yes, it's the court's budget, but the gentleman doesn't come here to present his own budget to the House, even to discuss it in the House. He can't, he's sending his assigned officers. Why? Because to defend the king more, to defend him more than himself. Because those who defend the king know that if the king falls, so will they. That's why they pick on you at the Clave, pick a fight, start a fight. And you've got your bullshitters, like your Minister of Technology. You've put all your hopes and dreams on the 2023, the local car, the local plane, the local satellite, all the bullshit you can throw away. He's going to land hard on the Moon. So he's going to hit Moon with a rocket to launch. If he doesn't, you can say the tangent is gone, and you can count it as a success. Dear Filiz Kerestecioğlu, our deputy has made a suggestion to your Minister: "Take the Soylu" as you go. Yes, I add, not only will he receive the noble, but also Ali Erbass, who is famous for his superior scientific research. Yes, imams, sheiks, shahs, hundreds of imam-haters, hundreds of Koran courses, will bring science to this country, will they? You know there won't be, but you know very well that science, art, if you open your mind, you can't sit in those seats, so you can trust seven ministries, more than the budget of the 12 presidencys. This person, who's been handed over 13 billion liras, gets his money from the palace, gives a fatwa just to keep the palace going. He says that the mosques are our red line. He says that your feminal is immoral. He says that his grandson is lawful to his grandfather. He says that he uses them to ignore women, Alevis, children. It was justice, wasn't it, your first name? Yes, your starting name. You'll be fair and hand out justice, won't you? I can't explain the injustices you've done in 20 years, even if it takes me a year to speak. But today is December 10th, World Human Rights Day. Yeah, well, I can't skip it here without saying, dear Aysel Tugluk, a human rights advocate, a colleague of mine, and a congressman who lives with you at this time. And once again, hear what Aysel Tuğluk was told. He went to his mother's funeral where you put him in prison illegally, where he saw racist, fascist attacks, heard them, and witnessed his mother being taken out of the ground where she was buried, and the heart of my dear Aysel didn't make sense either. And from that day on, his illness is getting deeper and deeper. I'm really asking you from here. What is this revenge for? And how can you live with so many evils? Yes, justice is just a cover used to cover up your whims, corruption, theft. Oh, and a bat for personal and political purposes from the court. With no legal basis, two people have been imprisoned for years. Yeah, he even let them go because they're holding him responsible, but he won't let them go. You know very well who they are. Yes, I'm talking about my beloved Selahattin Demirtaş and Osman Kavala. Why? Personal revenge, yes, apart from that, but he's scared, very scared. He's scared, so he keeps them both in prison. Is the President afraid of two people? Yeah, because he's afraid of what those two people represent, he's afraid of the Kurdish people, and he's afraid of millions of people on the streets for equality, freedom, justice, and democrats, progressives and leftists. Yes, the Kurdish people he fears and millions of them in the Travel. He thinks that when he captures these two people, those millions will shut up and pledge to him, stay still. You can't take over the Kurdish people or the country's left-wingers. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, I know you've come to your second name, and I know you've come to the street, and you can't go to the market, and you've all your hopes are tied to the hat of the man in the palace pulling the rabbit out of the hat. Twenty years later, the so-called economist found the formula, which will solve inflation, interest, unemployment, and fix the economy, right? It's like you're new to power. The gardener also plays with letters, taking the letter out of Merkel and reading it backwards, thinking he's opposed when he's on the other side. Erdogan plays with numbers, instructs the TÜİK, reduces 60 per cent inflation to 20 per cent, declares himself an economist. By the way, don't let me tell you: we've based on TÜİK data, we've raised the minimum wage on inflation. Don't say that, they won't eat it. At the beginning of this year, the minimum wage was $380 in January 2021, and the minimum wage must increase by more than $380, and every raise you make below that is fraud. My advice to you is: You can't leave the house anyway, so go to your TVs on Sunday, on the weekend, and watch the DİSK rally at Eagle. There you will see the agenda and anger of workers, workers, poor people. It's on its way. Yes, you've heard it a lot, but you've seen it in the Bar Association's election.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0026par0042	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0025par0043	My colleagues, defending the rights of the people, the rights of nature, who have held the honor of the defense in the face of unlawfulness for years, have won. Yes, dear Erinc has won. The man who put his back into the palace lost it. One by one, you're being ripped out of those castles of your own. Now, Bazili, you're going to have to look for a place for Feyzioğlu. Let me warn Justice Minister Abdulhamit Gul and Czech Ambassador Egemen Bagis. One of you is shaking. After all the service he's done to Feyzioğlu, it's either the ministry or the embassy. Let me repeat what I said in the first place: you are now politically living dead. Somebody's gonna get away, that's for sure. You can guess who's gonna run, but there's a lot of work to be done after you're gone. Someone else is preparing for power, but let them know... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...without the rights of the Kurdish people, without women equal and free, without the destruction of nature's plunder, and without the end of this exploitation order, this country will not recover.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0027par0048	İstanbul MP Züleyha Gülem. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0028par0051	Hello, it's December 10th Human Rights Day, but there's no human rights in this country. I want you to look at this photo. Trickster No. 1. Garib Gezer died yesterday in Lu Prison. He was subjected to sexual and physical assault at the Garibeh Candira Prison. He was kept naked and wounded for hours in the sponge room. The guards were systematically attacked, the doctor was discriminated against, and his story was prevented by the prison. Strange Gezer, look again, he died yesterday. We asked Garibe about the sexual violence and physical violence he experienced before he lost his life, and we said, "Take a note. You didn't do it." We told Garibe not to ask about the guards and the prison administration who committed sexual assault and tortured them. You didn't even need to get information, let alone an investigation. We said, "Don't put him in solitary." You didn't do it, and yesterday we got the news of his death. Autopsy was done quickly without the lawyers waiting, why? Five lawyers on their way to Kandira Prison have been held for hours to interview, and why haven't they been interviewed? Every death in prisons is responsible for the power. You can't just say suicide, it's murder, look at this photograph over and over again and see the crimes you've committed. And you know very well that thanks to you, there is no justice left in the country, no faith in justice. The people have given up hope of justice. In front of them, two children and his wife, Emine Şenyaşar, who was lynched with shotguns, are still on a justice watch in front of the Urban Courthouse, while certain killers are walking around with their arms wide open. You sent the prosecutor who ran the investigation in a hurry to identify the perpetrators, instead of punishing the murderers, you're punishing the Senyasar family. At the age of 14, you sentenced him to a hundred and twenty-four years for involvement in the murder of Yasin Bör. He was at a wedding about 90 miles away at the time. The images, the phone signals, the witnesses proved that he wasn't at the scene, and it wasn't enough that the facts of this evidence were investigated by the court. First, the prosecutor submits a plea of acquittal, then he's been replaced by an intervention in the judiciary, and he's been sentenced to a hundred and twenty-four years in prison, and your justice is ruined. You end freedom of expression, you arrest people doing street interviews, even reporters asking them questions. You've even arrested Hasan Koksoy, a reporter on Reporter Channel, and the person he interviewed. How many people do you plan to arrest, threaten with your own judgment? Once it's out of the way, the people aren't afraid of you or your judgment with sticks, justice is not working for the people, but for power. Because people can't get justice, it falls into the hands of gangs, gangs. People are being lost in this country. For almost two years, the wise Bronze has not been heard from. ▪ Who took them, and why did they kidnap them? They have no answers. You're attacking the safety and security of women's lives. At least three women get killed every day. The state is obliged to protect women. As you say, we have withdrawn from the mechanisms protecting women, from the Istanbul Convention. Women are subjected to violence, harassment, rape on migration roads, refugee camps every day. Women don't claim their rights because they're worried about being deported. Living off the record is completely destroying women's safety. You're responsible, responsible for every woman who's been taken from those camps. The male judge punishes women who have to kill to avoid death for defending their lives. The man who raped him in order to defend his life, forced him to kill a man who had to kill him, who did not even give him a reduced sentence, brings water from a thousand streams of men to protect him when it comes to the perpetrators. Male justice protects Specialist Sergeant Musa Orhan, the murderer who raped and killed 18-year-old İpek Er (Ipek) in Siirt. Like the reward he gave to Musa Orhan, the rapist on trial without arrest, the penalty is not enough, but also a reduction in good behavior. Ten years in prison, and he's still under arrest. On the other hand, Çilem Doğan is sentenced to 15 years in prison for having to kill to protect his life. Here's your man justice. Yeah, well, that's why women don't trust justice in this country, but the perp men have no faith in justice. You have a judicial system for men who encourage men, encourage them. Women are lost in this country. Gulistan Doku has been missing for seven hundred and six days. As Gulistan wasn't found, you filed lawsuits against his family looking for him. Women ask for family housing, temporary custody, protection to ensure their lives. Do you realize that the courts say that women abuse these decisions and reject them? On November 25th, March 8th, you attack the actions of women who fill the streets, demanding their rights. You're so afraid of women's freedom struggles, of our feminist struggles, that you take even women who jump into custody and raid their homes in the middle of the night and sue them.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0029par0060	Diyarbakir mothers aren't women?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0028par0061	You're attacking the women's equal representation and co-chair system. Women take politicians hostage, you want to judge them with years of punishment. You don't have the patience for women to be involved in political decision-making mechanisms. You've taken our female friends hostage in the Kobani conspiracy case, but women and all our friends continue to resist in the streets, in the streets, in the courts, as well as in the courts. Disregarding your right to defend, refusing to accept your judgment to make your instructed decision, not attending the trial. Hail, from here to all our friends who resist. Although there was not a single concrete evidence, the male judge sentenced Ayşe Gökkan (Geşkan) to thirty years in prison with hatred. His right to defend was won, his lawyers were beaten by the police. Our first co-Chair Aysel Tuğluk was forced to witness the attacks on his mother's funeral. Aysel Tuğluk (Aysel Tugluk) has a history of memory loss and many health problems, as well as the trauma he suffered that day. Despite his progressive illness, the hospital reports that he can't stay in prison, you still won't release him. There is no justice in this country.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0030par0063	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0028par0064	There's no justice in a country, there's nothing. These people do not accept the court's justice. Women don't accept your men's justice. We're fighting in and out. We won't let anyone take away our rights by paying us for years. You will lose; those who want justice, freedom, equality, women who fight for freedom will win, and of course you will be judged for all your crimes. Don't worry, we're not like you, we'll get you a fair trial. We won't do as you do, there'll be an independent judgment that will give you reasonable time to defend yourself, there won't be any procedural decisions in this independent judiciary. You will not be judged by hatred and hostility, but by democratic laws. Start preparing your defenses now, because it's going to be long. I'll see you in the courtrooms.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0030par0067	In turn, Ağrı MP Abdullah Kokotta.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0031par0069	Mr. President, this is a violation of Parliament's functioning as negotiations continue, and the use of foreign currency and banners is a punishment for condemning. These should never, ever be allowed.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0030par0071	Mr. Coach, are you coming?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0031par0072	It's not about the banners on the stand, it's not about the exchange; it's a crime. Please don't tolerate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0030par0073	Congressmans, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0032par0074	A woman lost her life, a woman lost her life in a government-charged prison.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0030par0075	Congressmans, don't force me to be forced by the General Assembly to decide whether to bring foreign currency, banner-like material that disturbs its working order and peace and use it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0033par0076	Mr. President, there's no such crime as this because our disciple is on the stand. There's only one request for justice here, and we don't accept a Civil Code alert every chance we get.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0034par0077	The banner, the exchange... the Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0035par0078	The banner is not foreign currency; this is the woman who committed suicide last night in Kandira.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0033par0079	Can't we express the demand for justice from here?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0036par0080	Mr. Coach, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0037par0082	Mr. President, dear people, I salute you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0038par0083	The one who died in Kandira Prison...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0039par0084	Enough.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0040par0085	Why was this woman kept in solitary confinement?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0039par0086	Enough.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0041par0087	I have made a commitment to the Justice Department's budget. I want to talk about the budget of a ministry where there's no justice, there's no law, there's no punishment. The Ministry of Interior is a ministry, unfortunately, with many negative practices in the sense of justice, due to the continued intervention of political power by intelligence organisations, by other actors. With the justice reform package, we are talking about a ministry that has emerged with goals such as the protection and development of so-called rights and freedoms, the development of judicial independence, neutrality and transparency, increasing the efficiency of the criminal justice system. Has this strategy come true that excites many social groups? Of course it didn't happen. The governors have been given extraordinary powers, along with the first judicial package. The person's rights and freedoms have been restricted, the State of Emergency laws have been made permanent, everything about democracy has been taken back one by one. The restrictions on political parties, NGOs, universities were ranked one by one, and the regime of one man was justified. In the ongoing packages, during the process, when it was declared to be a world-shattering, scorching, and pandemic, while everyone was at risk calling for the evacuation of the United Nations prisons, the Interior Ministry took advantage of the opportunity to perform trustee operations and turn the prisons into concentration camps with political genocide policies aimed at our party. Although the United Nations called for immediate release of sick and elderly prisoners, the current government's genocide operations continued at an increasing rate. The Constitution has violated the principle of equality of the Constitution and the justice system in the execution, including criminal organizations, sex abuse offenders, drug offenders, drug offenders, juvenile offenses, convicted felons, released and all political prisoners have been sentenced for the second time. Opposition and commentative activists, journalists, writers, lawyers, politicians, co-chairs of the municipality continued to be held hostage. The Constitution has been authorized to intervene in the Ministry of Interior, associations and NGOs by interfering with the right to organise protected institutions. State mafia relations, judicial political relations have been compromised, and despite these allegations, no investigation has been conducted. In public cases, there was no justice when the sexual harassment cases, political murders, and the Deniz Poyraz case, the Tahir Elçi case, and their murders were exposed, and unfortunately there was no effective trial. Even though Emine Şenyaşar was a victim, she was called to testify 10 times, and in the depositions, the perpetrator was an unknown, deliberate homicide. The judicial package provided concrete evidence in the investigations into the torture of public officials. Lockdown policies have become illegally widespread in every part of the country. After eight years in İmralı Prison, Mr. Ocalan was last able to meet with his lawyers on August 7, 2019. His attorneys are applying to the Bursa Criminal Execution Judge's office twice a week, but the execution judge refuses to let his lawyers meet without any grounds. Mr. Secretary, on May 16, 2019, in your statement regarding the meeting with Ocalan, you say that it is a legal right for the judges to speak to their lawyers. Before, there were restrictions, there were decisions on the ban; they were removed, they were given the opportunity to talk. You're going to have to make a public statement about this. According to Human Rights Association and Human Rights Foundation of Turkey, there is an application for torture of 915 people in 59 journalists in prison in 11 months alone; a ban on access to 158 media-reports and websites has been imposed. According to the Freedom of State Association's May 2020 data, hundreds of thousands of social media pages or network providers were banned; 98,714 accounts were conducted in 11 months alone. According to the 2020 World Press Freedom Index of Journalists Without Borders, Turkey is ranked 154°th in the 180-nation rankings. With the policies of the current government, the country has become poor, and life has become unbearable in terms of large populations. The lack of security policies and the lack of legal security has become an area in which all these environments exist. Unfortunately, this is the reality facing a country without justice. The notion of injustice, injustice, lawlessness, labourers, fixed incomes, the public's poverty, the distribution of revenues, the greater injustice, and the greater unemployment. Mr. Secretary, all investigations and operations are carried out by the Home Secretary. The Home Secretary is here every day committing crimes and states he does not recognise the justice available. In spite of all this, how will you maintain justice? This view of power is based on suppressing opposition, restricting freedom of thought and limiting freedoms. Mr. Secretary, look, in all your speeches -- if you think so -- you speak as if you are the Minister of Justice of Germany, France and Switzerland. You're probably going to have to do your speech this evening.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0042par0096	Ask you what to do?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0041par0097	But I would like to point out that there is a Kobani conspiracy case, and why did you intervene in this Kobani conspiracy case? Why are you interfering? So, why did you change the current delegation? You'll have to make a statement about that, Your Honor. The President says he does not recognise the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, but how will you do justice? The Minister of Health is committing a crime, and he's laying the groundwork for all investigations, but how are you going to get justice? You have to make a public statement about these matters. Look, you've marked more than half the population. You've launched an investigation into 26.225 people in just 11 months, Mr. Secretary. So, with all this in the open, what did your packages bring to this community? You've only seen the way to this community and only the prisons, Mr. Secretary. How do you ask for a budget, Mr. Secretary, despite all this illegality?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0043par0101	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0041par0102	Well, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, is there going to be justice in the case and the case of Musa Anter, with this budget, when you take the people's money? With this budget, Mr. Secretary, will Ceylan Önkol find justice? Minister, will the Roboski massacre find justice? Minister, will the Sea Poyraz massacre find justice? I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary. Garibe Gezer, who died in Kandira Prison, was sexually assaulted and tortured. Will this matter find justice, Mr. Secretary? Mr. Secretary, look, there's been a lawsuit against Osman Shiban who was thrown out of the helicopter and badly injured. Is there going to be an investigation into the people who caused it and committed it, and will justice be served in this matter? Therefore, you will not bring this justice, and we already say no to you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0043par0104	This is Diyarbakır MP Remziye Tosun. Here you go, Mr. Tosun.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0044par0107	Mr. President, ever since the budget began, we have been telling the HDP that this budget, the budget of justice, the budget of equality is not. One man's regime, one equal budget, a dual citizenship system was established in the country. The ones who are on the side and the ones who aren't. He receives ten separate wages, and brings water from a thousand streams to feed his non-compulsive belly. He's on the payroll, looking for a job on a non-compulsive street. This system that has emptied all institutions has also emptied the judiciary and filled it with injustice and injustice. We're dealing with such an unfair system that the ruling partner has lost enough political consciousness to want the AYM to be shut down. In particular, as Kurdish politicians, we experience many concrete examples that destroy trust in justice in our electoral district or other regions. For example, Diyarbakır claims that the person and his children who were arrested for the murder of his wife were released in Bismil. It's said that there's a judicial market where people are evacuated in exchange for money. And since we haven't been able to answer the questions we've submitted to the Justice Department and the Justice Department, we're asking over and over again: Is the Ministry going to take steps on this? We're as curious as our people are. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, five minutes, hours of unlawful trial and tortures in prisons are less than enough. Do you know the greatest aspect of crimes committed in trials and prisons? Kurdish and Kurdish hostility. The Kurdish speech of the ruling is free, the Kurdish speech is forbidden; TRT SESS is free, it is forbidden in prisons, it is forbidden in courts. A few months ago, our comrade Leyla Güven and nine women in prison were investigated for singing in Kurdish and pulling a rope. Women's prisoners wanted to defend Kurdish in the main language at the hearing. Women wanted to exercise their rights in the main language or Kurdish defence at the hearing, and the court rejected the request, and on top of that, the right to remain silent in Kurdish defence. Now, if it isn't Kurdish hostility, what is it? When it's not clear whether women are being punished or rewarded, the word "trial" is considered a crime. Why does that word bother you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0045par0110	We didn't understand.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0044par0111	Let's go again. Everywhere, in every court (...) x, the word "life-woman-freedom" is banned, and that demand is considered a crime. You understand that from here.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0046par0114	The mothers of Diyarbakir also want freedom, so address them.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0044par0115	You don't even have the patience to speak in Kurdish in this parliament, but whatever you do, the Kurdish people have lived in their own language, culture, and will live in your wake. Dear lawmakers, in addition to injustices in the courts, thousands of sick prisoners were left to die in prisons. Semire Dilekçi, 44 years old in Diyarbakır Prison, has been in prison for twenty-four years, his intestines have been left out for a year and a half due to health problems, his intestines have been re-systrated, he has lost sight in one eye, he has had surgery seven times. Another prison is the Revolutionary Sober in Eskişehir Prison. 76% disabled, Crohn's patient, which is why he had two surgeries. He lost one eye in prison due to health problems, while the other was diagnosed with 30 degrees of myopic. It was not enough that they left the sick prisoners to die, but this time they began to block the evacuations with the executive and observation boards. Nearly 100 prisoners are eligible to be released, while their executions are burned with arbitrary decisions and their freedoms are blocked. Do you know what motive is? That they can't show remorse. How do we know they don't show remorse? Because they don't buy books in the library, because they don't get along with officers in prison. An arrangement must be made immediately to cover the sick and political prisoners.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0047par0120	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0044par0121	Otherwise, in a negative situation, not just the Ministry, but the entire community will be burdened with this burden. Dear lawmakers, we have recently learned that Garibe Gezer, who had been tortured, raped, and lived in a cell in Kandira Prison, died yesterday. Prisoners in prison are the responsibility of the state. His brother explained that Garibe Gezer didn't commit suicide, he asked him for clothes and pictures, he was in a good mood. How does a solitary prisoner commit suicide? It's not suicide, it's murder. Your injustice, your unlawfulness, took the life of a young woman. Mr. Secretary, how can you still sit there? It's shameful, it's sinful, it's unjust. We honor all our friends who died in prison, in the presence of our poor Gezer.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0048par0125	Yes, it's up to you, Alderman Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0127	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have important questions for the Minister of Justice, and I have papers, so please listen to me carefully. I'm the MP who asks the Minister of Justice the most questions in this House. In three years, I've asked more than 2,400 questions. These are my questions for the last year, but the answer rate is 20 percent, and 19 percent is over. You haven't answered 80% of my questions, Mr. Secretary. Why aren't they answering? Because violations are not wanted. Most of the answers are already read this link, where there is an answer. Now, we're not asked to learn about the violations, the problems in the prison, but we want to find out by trying to get to the bottom of it. I want to visit prisons. Look, it's a remarkable thing: there's a Department of Justice that violates the Constitution. How? I've sent hundreds of times to the prisons, petitions, petitions, petitions for Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ, Ahmet Alton, Alparslan Kuytul -- not even a hundred times in three years -- not even an answer. According to Article 74, I applied to the Public Control Agency for reasons why there were no answers, and the Public Control Agency told me that the process was correct. Well, friends, you've got a lot of lawyers in you, you've got a right to petition in Article 74 of the Constitution, and the petition needs to be answered in some way. I think President Malkoc of the Public Control Agency pulled some strings on his son-in-law and gave us an answer like that.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0050par0131	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0132	Yes, the mail block continues. Look, I've brought you up to date: for fifty-seven days they made Ayþe Özdöğan suffer. Maximal sinus cancer, stage four. When he drank water, this woman who was in prison for fifty-seven miserable days was prevented from postponing an execution from the Istanbul Forensic Medical Association, and the letter he sent to me prevented him. Later, after Ayþe left, I met with her. You know what he said to me? Mr. Omer, there are hundreds, thousands of people in there that are worse than my condition. There's 35 of us left in the 13 seats. For two years, I stayed with people who didn't go to the hospital because they were going back to the quarantine cell. Do you know how much I'm going to tell you? Look again, Veysi Alton wrote me a letter from Türkoğlu Prison. This is the minister's prison, look. The letter he wrote to me, the letter he wrote to a deputy, was blocked by Türkoğlu Prison. Who's learning? The lawyers who left later found out. Why? Veysi-Altan told him about the naked phone call he was looking for, and he was blocked for it. Again, Mr. Secretary, you know what happened here last year. Özlem Rich called me a terrorist here because I brought up the naked search. And look here, Mr. Secretary, on March 9, 2021: What did Özlem Rich say about Abdulhamit Gul? Ms. Özlem was also severely wronged. As a woman, Özlem Hanım, as a politician, said that she was a libertarian. And then what happened? About 11 months later, Mr. Secretary changed the naked search regulations. So there's a code. ▪ Instead of naked, he has brought the detite, but the naked search continues. Mr. Secretary, this isn't fasting, this isn't sauerkraut! I ask you, what kind of practice is this? Look, I deal with prisons a lot. I've been in prison for, you know, 96 days, letters being blocked, really, friends. One day a letter came to me. A person who loves me has written a very sensitive, beautiful letter. Mr. Gergerlioglu, I put a seashell in the letter, put it in your ear, and you will hear the waves of the sea. I looked, there's no shell in the letter. For God's sake! Why? I've received the article: "It's blocked, it's forbidden, it's against the law." (Applause from HDP rows)
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0051par0135	It's theater, theater, friends!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0136	Yeah, guys, even a seashell is being blocked. They're up, talking about the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0051par0137	We need a movie.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0138	From here, our friends in prison are watching us. Where is the Human Rights Action Plan where a seashell is banned and there are thousands of violations, for God's sake? You can block the seashells sent to us, but you can't stop the waves of the sea, and you can't stop our love of listening to the sound of those waves.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0051par0140	Theatre, theatre!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0141	Look, I really don't understand you, Mr. Secretary. I'm overwhelmed with the fact that I can't keep up with the thousands of applications that come to me, and if I don't make it, my conscience aches.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0051par0142	What conscience, what conscience?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0143	But you're very good at submersibles, believe me. Now, look, we...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0051par0145	Do you have a conscience?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0146	Look, don't yell from there. I believe you have a cold heart. I'm speaking to the people, and you're telling me the truth in those prisons, Omer Bey, go on Mr. Omar. Go on, I'm speaking to those who say, okay?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0052par0147	You have no heart, my Lord, who has forgotten to put it in.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0148	Look, I'm talking to the documents, and I'm showing you a picture of Garib Gezer, and I'm telling you...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0052par0149	Why don't you show me some pictures of the kids who were kidnapped in the mountains and some pictures of the kids going to the mountains?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0150	Listen to me for a minute, look. I'm showing a dead man's letter. The poor Gezer, sent to me...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0053par0151	Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0054par0152	Wait a minute, Mr. Gergerlioglu, wait a minute. Anyone who wants to talk, talk, don't talk.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0153	Why are you shutting me up?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0054par0154	Don't make a big deal out of it, guys.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0155	Look, I'm going to tell you about the letter that Garibe Gezer sent to me on October 4th, when he committed suicide yesterday. If you've got a conscience, you'll shut up! I'm going to read you the letter of a dead woman, an underdog. For God's sake, he's got a prison stamp. He told me a lot of violations in the letter he sent me. He told us that the April publications were blocked, his magazines were blocked, and I would read his last sentence -- if I could read all of them -- he says, "I wish I could read them all." He says, "I'm trying to get our voice, our will, to our valued representatives who represent our voice in these days, where there are no independent courts, where there are no independent courts, where they don't exist, and where they don't stay, and who represent our will, hear my voice, Omer Bey. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, I've made a motion to ask the Justice Department about this. What's he saying? I submitted a question motion on October 26th. He committed suicide yesterday. My question motion hasn't been answered. Dear friends, I've been keeping a close eye on his condition. I just got off the phone with her sister, her sister in tears. I asked his sister if she had received the letter I had sent him. No, Omar Bey, but she knew that you were trying, and she said, "Thank you, Mr. Omar." But they even blocked our letter, guys. They drove that girl crazy in there. I know, the letter he sent me was a normal letter. He tried to kill himself in there. As a physician... look, how irresponsible is that? How did you keep him in a solitary cell when the person who tried to commit suicide could commit suicide again? Do not keep me in solitary confinement many times. Take me to the ward. He said, "But you didn't do it." How come you don't have a conscience about this? Look, I'm going to show you some very important documents from Kandira Prison. Let the prisons watch this, thousands of people are not given probation. It's a scandal from Kandira Prison. You have a prosecutor there. Yunus Won't die... on June 12th, the observation board said: "The study can go free." Three days later, the same observation board said, "No, it can't." What happened in those three days? Then he appealed to the execution judge, the execution judge -- he was a legitimate lawyer -- and he said, "Yes, the objection is very valuable, very true; there is no disciplinary action, there is no controlled freedom." The prosecutor rushed to the criminal court and told the criminal court that it cannot be granted probation without a criminal court offering any grounds. This is justice, this is justice, my friends. Moving on. Look, what do people say to you? ▪ Is it appropriate for an undeclared person to finish his bed and stay in prison for thirteen months? Look, Omar Faruk Turan was a child with a terminal illness, a child with autistic heart failure. I spoke to the Attorney General of Manisa, and I know this child will die -- as a physician -- and I told him to let Murat Turan, his father in Manisa Prison, visit him before he died. You know what he said? No, it's not possible, I can't let him. He actually had a legal right. Moving on. Look, here's the papers, I can show you all of them. Again, Mr. Nacho Sanchez, the European Council Reporter, you know, has made me a brother deputy because of what happened to me. Last time, he visited us in our Istanbul Province presidency, and we talked. He asked me about this photo, Mr. Secretary. In your country, people die in wards in white plastic chairs. What happened? By God, Mr. Amor, I asked the Minister, he hasn't sent me a review report in a year and a half.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0055par0162	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0049par0163	I asked the minister, he hasn't sent a disciplinary investigation in over a year and a half. Again, look, parents, the arrests are going on very badly. These are the children of Özlem and Mehmet Demirtaş. As a physician, I read the child psychologist reports of these three children, and I was devastated. An offer of law has been sent to parliament; the AK PARTI government has cancelled its offer to postpone its sentences if the wife of women under the age of 15 is also under arrest. You can't understand how this works, you guys. Again, going on, look, who are these people? Our friends, our former friends, the HDP former members of MYK. Bulent Fingerless sent me a letter, and you know what it says in his letter? They were so cruel in the count, they increased the numbers, the calls, from two to three. He says, "Omer sir, their justice is to the deputy, and Yazad's justice, and the justice of the house, but they will be struck, and the justice of God will be to him. They raised the normal number of two to three. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Twenty-three a.m. They're searching at 00. They're harassing their intentions.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0056par0169	It's up to Mr. Fatma Surkan, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0057par0171	Fatma is coming! Fatma, are you going to be mad at the Good Party again? They're too afraid of you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0173	How?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0059par0174	He said something that complimented you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0175	Come on, man! I'll tell you, this is the only way!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0059par0176	But he didn't tell you anything.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0177	Let's go! Let's go!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0060par0178	I didn't say anything to you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0179	Speak your language knowingly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0060par0180	I didn't say anything to you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0061par0181	What are you two talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0182	You teased me, you said something to me when I came here. Wait a minute, friends, Fatma Hanım, wait a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0062par0184	Guys, you're making fun of us when our preacher's leaving.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0063par0185	Let's have a friend come over here and talk. Don't beat around the bush.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0186	Come on in and tell me.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0063par0187	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0188	Solomon is an aristocrat!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0064par0190	Wait a minute!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0058par0191	Why didn't you all come? Why were you all piled up in the noble house of Solomon, and why are there ten of you in these ministers?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0065par0192	Fatma Hanim, Mr. Survivor...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0064par0193	Wait a minute! What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0066par0194	What do you mean, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0064par0195	What do you mean, "stupids"?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0066par0196	Who are you to stand up and interfere?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0064par0197	Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0067par0198	Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0064par0199	That's disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0068par0200	Why not?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0067par0201	You're disrespectful, sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0069par0202	Without you, it's disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0067par0203	Sit down! And don't call our deputy.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0070par0204	Mr. Survivor, address me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0071par0205	I haven't started, Mr. President, again, again, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0070par0206	Look, let me tell you something. A fellow MP came to me this morning, and he said, "I have a 14-year-old child. When there was a fight, he said, "Don't be there." Come on, guys, let it go. Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0072par0209	Sir, we'd appreciate it if the preacher would speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0073par0210	Mr. President, before you start with an apology...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0070par0211	I didn't hear anything.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0073par0212	I watched carefully from here, and now that our Omar MP is there, Mrs. Fatma is coming. The voice comes up here and they start talking while they walk.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0070par0213	I've made the necessary warning.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0074par0214	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0075par0215	Yeah, what's in it?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0076par0216	I followed you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0074par0217	What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0076par0218	But you continued.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0077par0219	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0078par0220	So it's not Fatma, it's someone else?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0077par0221	Mr. President, there's no small talk or anything, so let's pick up where we left off.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0079par0222	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0080par0223	Mr. President -- I'd love to say -- I respect the Deputy Director of the MHP Group as a co-existent President of the Group. Dear friends, I salute you all. Of course, there are a few points I'd like to point out about Garib Gezer. I also have a question for the Minister, and I wish he'd looked at the question motion and stepped in on time, and this woman might be alive now. He was harassed, raped, violent; he was dragged half naked among the male guards; he was placed in a room with sponges; he shouted loudly, trying to speak out, to the public. We've spoken here, we've made a question proposal, but you've blocked your ears. At the moment, it is said that Garibeh had committed suicide last night, and his family says that it was not suicide. After all, there is a doubt, it must be investigated. I'd like to point out that I also condemn your irresponsibility for this. Dear friends, we know that the Human Rights Review Commission received 9.030 petitions in 2021, which came from the prison of 6,761. But there are also tens of thousands of letters to our group -- almost all of us -- through faxes, letters, family and lawyers, from prisons, etcetera, etcetera.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0081par0227	It's from the mothers of Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0080par0228	In the last month, even two months, we've done very intensive reviews as the Commission for Inmate and Criminal Rights Review. I would also like to thank our Commissioner, Mr. Ibrahim Yunduniseven, who runs our Commission in a way that should be modeled for his work schedule and his method of working. When we go to prison visits, we first come across a presentation of a prison administration, dear friends. They're talking about campuses built on huge land, they're showing ovens, they're showing mess halls, they're showing infirmarys, they're even showing some of the health centers that are being built. They show you rooms where women with children stay. Children's playrooms, day care centers, courses, caring services for prisoners, et cetera, et cetera. When we say, "Are these things being processed?," sir, because of the pandemic, they are limited now, they are not functioning. But once we get out of here, once we get out of the administration section and into the wards, once that door is closed, of course nothing comes out but cruelty. ▪ Naked search is one of the first questions we asked. You've also caused our deputy to fall, and you've all yelled and yelled here again, but the question we're asking is that almost many of the prisoners, especially all of the political prisoners, have been exposed to the naked search. What did you just say? It's a detailed call. Let's see, we'll see about that in the future. In the nude search, political prisoners say that as soon as he goes to prison, an A team welcomes us. I don't know if you know about Team A. Hopefully, I don't know about this practice. You can finally tell us that. Team A is coming in, explaining the torture of this prison to these prisoners, of course, by beating them, by breaking their mouths, their noses, etcetera, etcetera. The violations of rights keep coming back. At one point -- everyone knows very well -- the count was known as the part in the prison memory that was a little dark, a little tortured, so that during the count, the torture of the prisoners, the re-establishment of the prisoners, during this period, even everyone who came to the agenda during this period -- some of the forensic prisoners said, "Take off the wire, put on your shoes, put on your sweatpants; stand by. They even count themselves by giving each individual rankings. The ward search has turned into a total torture in the prisons; their belongings are being destroyed. New Life, Universal, One Day, Oxygen, New Asia newspapers are not available, and some TV channels are banned, such as People's TV, which is the most public. The book limitation is stretched or hardened at ease. The petitions disappear or are delayed. The letters doodle over the Kurdish chapters. The Kurdish phone calls they make to their families are interrupted, banned, as you cut off the microphone here, where they continue as your vision of them. One of the most pressing complaints in prison reviews is the request for a transfer. We always say that the request for transport has now become a torture; in fact, it is viewed not only as punishment for the prisoner but also for his family. It is said that the shipments were not made due to the pandemic, but the prisoners were dragged from place to place in the middle of the night as they were being smuggled out of their wards, where they were, of course, being tortured by the A team. Recently, I've been forwarding it to the General Directorate of Punishment and Inquisitorships, for example, as if all Western prisons were built for Kurds. For example, one brother is in Espieje Prison, and even the Kurds don't know where Espye is, but we've learned. Espieyah, a brother of Erzincana, has the request of the family: At least let my two children come to a prison. Let Bari Erzincan come to Erzincan, bring two to Erzincan. When we say this, it's called security. Now, is this security provided only at 700, 900 kilometers? I'd really like to ask you about this cruelty in 200, 300, 400 kilometers, even in the same city. Again, you rushed a group of people from Şırnak to Kayseri. While we were studying Kayseri Prison, a prisoner told us: "There are people from Şırnak, who have been struck, and their noses have been broken." They said, "We blocked our ears as a commission, smiled, and passed. There is a verdict of imprisonment in this matter that Turkey knows, Mr. Minister, we already know that the ECHR convicted Turkey, saying that it was a violation of the rights of Tequila and Avsar's decisions in 2019, and that it was a violation of the rights of the family. Health care is the biggest problem in prisons, there are no doctors in the infirmary. We're going to the sick bays where we're shown a little fancy, where the clinics are even open, where we're going. Who's there? Just one staff member in a white coat, who is it? He's the head of health. A member of our Commission sometimes says, "It's a pandemic, and we don't go to the dentist outside. We've gone, we've made our teeth, pandemics... (Applause from HDP rows) I have lived for a year with a toothache. If I had been interrupted in time, my teeth would have been saved, and we've become this because they haven't been. There are so many prisoners who say. Believe me, if you give me pliers, the prisoners are like this because they're desperate and in pain to pull each other's teeth anymore. The handcuff exam is a big problem. Yeah, well, he's barely going to the hospital, and when he goes to the hospital, he's being handcuffed, it's gonna hurt his human dignity...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0082par0238	Mr. Secretary, it's your Ministry.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0080par0239	For example, the mammography has a insistence on handcuffs. In the custody of the officer... the woman goes to prison, where she does the mammography, and the male officer insists on being me. She says, "No." And the next thing she knows, the mirror is watching her.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0083par0240	Mr. Secretary, they're talking about you. Listen, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0080par0241	It's one of the biggest problems. Again, Bangin Muhammad is the new...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0083par0243	They're talking about you, look.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0084par0244	You're gonna give me an idea!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0083par0245	Listen, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0084par0246	You're my superior!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0085par0247	What are you talking about? This is your friend speaking. Don't beat around the bush, all right.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0086par0248	The funeral of Bangin Muhammad was recently delivered to his mother. Again, our Aysel Tugluk friend, his fellow wardmates, said that five minutes ago his condition was very urgent, that new cases had come up in his health, new findings had occurred. Friends, the prison administration is already looking closely at Aysel Tugluk's situation, and he knows, and he agrees. We'd like to stress the immediate evacuation of Aysel Tugluk. Many of our friends have spoken, saying, "Mehmet Emin Özkan. " But your ears are deaf. Menemen type R Prison, look, don't get worked up, these are criminal prisoners. They've all given us two babysitters in a wheelchair, and those babysitters aren't enough. As a commission, we all agreed that the commissioner at every party should evacuate them immediately. It's torture to insist on keeping sick prisoners in prison when they can't survive, and we say stop this torture. Food is the biggest problem, something everyone complains about. Dear friends, the prisoners say that food is already not nutritious. The lunch is good because the administration is eating here, but we're throwing the rest of them out like they came in. Can't the government, the official, the official, see that the food is all in the trash at the end of the day? Believe me, some inmates say they're sorry that God's blessing was thrown away. Now they've let go of their hunger -- it's a chore -- it's a real pain in the ass to throw food in the pot every day. Female prisoners also have problems. It's obvious the poor are already alive. A woman in Kayseri Prison applied to our commission two years ago, and I was harassed. Our commission's gone, what have we done? Tell me, in the presence of six or seven men, how were you harassed? Few of the female friends here, in our group, know it, every woman knows it, so tell me in public how a case of abuse happened. It's not an easy matter to say and answer it. It's not an easy matter to look into. What do you do? An independent delegation leaves, takes it on time, intervenes in order to avoid the fate of the poor. There are cameras that see the private areas of the female prisoners again, and that's not acceptable. Even as women enter the bathroom, the camera sees us. Mothers with children say that their children are not given separate meals or separate beds; hygiene supplies are not given to them. We reject this discrimination against women, this violence. The observation boards stand before us as an area of violence, dear friends. For example, will you go to HDP when you're out of Tarsus Prison? They're facing a question, and all the members of the Commission have heard it; it's not something I made up, so don't think about it. He is not well. He is not sorry. He is staying in one ward or one ward. These are being questioned for the reasons. For example, what we've been told, and then what I've been investigating, is Ramazan Akbalı in Van Prison; someone comes in, they take him out of the ward, they question him. I've talked to his lawyer three times; he's being questioned, he's said to have gone to operations outside, he's being forced to go to an independent or single ward. Ramazan Akbaşlı goes there, then he's hanging in his ward, and there's no investigation about it, and the prosecutor we're listening to says, "I'm happy if I've separated a member of a terrorist organization from his structure." As a commission, we've seen such a sad situation. Of all these prisons, there's the most serious prison of all. The Hajri Konar, Hamili Yıldırım, Veysi Aktaş, who remained in the High Security Prison of Abdullah Ocalan and İmralı, are not allowed to communicate with the legal rights of attorney and family. Abdullah Ocalan has been unable to receive family opinion for two and a half years since June 2019. Ecalan, Konar, Yıldırım and Aktaş were last heard from on March 25, 2021, eight and a half months ago. Families and lawyers who had received no news from their relatives recently visited our group -- their demands, the implementation of the law, the ability to meet their relatives and clients, are aware that they are in good health. We're always trying to express this heavy isolation, personal law enforcement here. You are one of the best aware of the impact of this heavy isolation, Mr. Secretary. Let the existing laws be enforced. You know very well that there are those who have sacrificed their lives. Layla Güven, a member of this Assembly, was on hunger strike for two hundred days, saying, "Let the trial be lifted." Thousands of prisoners went on hunger strike in prisons, and eight prisoners left letters condemning the isolation, and ended their lives. After this process and the impact of the political conjunctural, you went to the cameras, and the decision to cut down, the decision to discuss the issue was removed, and legally, after the obstacles were lifted, you said the possibility of meeting the lawyer was legal. Again, in your statement to journalists following the admission of members of the Committee for the Protection of the European Torture, we cannot, in any way, accept the arbitrary attitude of any person, and we cannot allow the right to be violated in this regard. There are legal, administrative investigations in these matters, and there are violations, bad, arbitrary practices, which are required, you said.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0087par0256	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0086par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. But at this stage, isolation continues in its most severe form. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, what is the point of families, lawyers, and prisoners not being granted the most reasonable rights? What is the reason for insisting on the isolation of the Imralı? I'd like to see the illegal and arbitrary practices of the Imralı and all prisons end. Thank you for listening to me.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0088par0261	In order, it is Erdal Aydemir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0263	Mr. President, my compliments, congratulations, you're doing great; anyone who wants to talk, come and talk. Mr. President, I would especially like to ask my dear colleague, my esteemed colleague, what is the percentage of the trust in the public of Turkey, Mr. Minister of Law, who has risen from beneficiaries to the profession, to the profession, to the profession, to the mastery, to the chief of staff, to the secretary of staff and to the ministry? If, if you know, share it with us, but according to our research, the confidence in justice now is unfortunately only 4 percent, and you are responsible for it in the first place. I'd like to remind you again of your current situation in Turkey's prisons. You are all opposed to the 1980 coup, especially your President Recep Tayyip. Look, the first duty of a Justice Minister is to follow prisons, justice, courts, judges, prosecutors, judges. I remind you, Mr. Minister, that after the 1980 coup, Kemal Yamak, appointed to Diyarbakır as a martial law commander, took with him Esat Oktay Yığuran. Why did he take it? These have passed through the history of Turkey as torturers raised by the Special War Office. Now, if you don't want to face similar accusations in this career, please, let your eyes and ears look at the prison practices that are now going beyond 80 coups. Please, look and see. Now, I say that the Turkish judiciary depends on America, the Turkish judiciary depends on Germany. Look, what kind of addict is he? Let me give you two very striking examples: the Father Brunson case. What did Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan say, as long as this poor man is on this mission, this terrorist Brunson cannot be released from prison. Look, this statement is the torture of every two articles. What is this torture? Let Brother Brunson go free immediately until the call from the President of the United States, Donald Trump,........ Now, is Turkey's judgment dependent on America or not? I'm asking local and national friends, whether America is dependent on a telephone, or not? Deniz Yücel, journalist; Angela Merkel, Prime Minister of Germany; on one phone, did Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan connect the Turkish judiciary or not?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0090par0267	He didn't.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0268	Now the question is, how independent is the Turkish judiciary?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0090par0269	Fully independent.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0270	Who's it up to? It's up to one person. Is it not a promise of the Agha? Oh, no. If you have a heart, speak upon the promise of the bride Agha.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0090par0271	We have a heart, too. We're light-headed, we're clear-faced. The Turkish judiciary is independent.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0272	Look -- my time is short -- there are decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, Osman Kavala and Demirtaş.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0090par0273	It's not a challenge with hand-to-hand moves.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0274	What did the Chief Justice say here, the only one again? He said: "These decisions are not with us; they are not binding for us. " Did you apply to the ECHM in 1999? Has Recep Tayyip Erdogan applied to the ECHR? Did he want justice? Has he applied to their law? He hit me. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The same Recep Tayyip Erdogan was scheduled to run for parliamentary elections in 2002, did he apply to the European Court of Human Rights to erase his criminal record? He hit me.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0090par0275	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0276	You know what? At this time, the European Court of Human Rights has given the same reasons to the Kavala files as the European Court of Human Rights Demirtaş...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0091par0278	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0279	... This is a struggle for democracy and freedom. At his request, Recep Tayyip Erdogan sought justice from the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0092par0280	We're fighting terrorism, we're fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0089par0281	Yesterday's victim, yesterday's oppressed, unfortunately, turned into a persecution machine at the coming point, hostile to judgment. Kavala, Ahmet Altan, Demirtaş, HDP's closed case against HDP, and Kobani has made it an instrument of revenge with the conspiracy case. Let me finish with this. In our Karer district, the Alevi Zazas have a famous saying: [[x]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] God knows up there who is the oppressor, and who is the unjust, and who is the one who does not believe in God?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0093par0287	This is Adana MP Tulay Hatimoğlu Orç. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0094par0290	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, if a woman ruled the world, there wouldn't be wars on earth; life wouldn't go to hell like this; and we wouldn't be talking about a large budget for the Ministry of Defense during budget talks. The male dominant system, primitive nationalism, militarism, they're a form of governance that's been common to each other, and, unfortunately, it's been a plague on the world for centuries. We women insist on peace; militant understanding finds women's peace demands compassionate and passive, whereas it is our political choice. Peace is loving, but it's never passive. Fighting is easy, fighting is the product of the man's mind, and it's very easy. The main thing is to be able to solve problems; to create dialogue; to live in peace politics. The only thing to brag about is the implementation of the big peace project, not the UAVs, not the SIHA, to win the President's in-laws. Yes, Mr. Secretary, I've asked you in the process of the Commission: there are allegations that chemical weapons were used in Federe Kurdistan. The International Chemical Weapons Convention of Turkey is a entity, and you said: "There are no chemical weapons in the inventory of the TTSK." The question I'm asking is whether or not this weapon has been used in the whole world? To investigate this issue, which may cause Turkey to be tried in international courts, a delegation from the Organization for Chemical Weapons of The Hague Court, particularly the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the United Nations, must conduct a serious investigation into this issue and present a serious report to the public. Yes, dear friends, dear people, Turkey is really going through a period of hunger in every household, every house, and we are talking about the budget in such a time. One reason why the budget is so full of holes today is the result of over-the-top and paranoid security policies. We've always said that from these platforms, and we'll repeat them. Dangerous, artificial feuds, colonialism, authoritarian regimes create artificial enemies to sustain their own existence, and they constantly create a perception that there's a beca problem in the country. During budget talks today, it is possible to see that we will be given an answer -- in truth -- through terrorism -- as a reflection of the way Turkey has been managed so far. Look, in the Commission talks, you said that we're going through the most intense border measures in the history of the Republic. Yes, 910km of borders would be dangerous if you made ISIS, Al Nusra, HTŞ, Kuvaimillia, and supported it as our neighbor until now. Now you're trying to get security from the mines by building sets, building walls -- that's the budget's sweatshop, of course. Whereas we've always said that the safest thing to do is to solve the Kurdish problem in peaceful and democratic ways, to build the peace process with neighbouring countries, and to become a country that can work on the great peace project in the Middle East, but what's the solution? Look, 50,000 people have lost their lives and billions of dollars spent in Kurdish war -- never compared to the life of a human being if you put together the wealth of the whole world. Yes, the integrity of the country in question is of no importance to wealth or to life. You will say, "This is the classic answer from you." If it's really what you say it is, then the question is, the Kurdish people have fought for their native language, for their equal citizenship rights within those borders, as they have lived in both Turkey and Syria and Iraq and Iran until now. It's time for everyone to get to the point, and when the country is starving, we don't have a penny to pay for the gun anymore. [[Applause from HDP rows]] At the meeting of the National Security Council, the President explained the fight for economic salvation, while Mr. Secretary is also a member of your Ministry, the MGK. I'd like to ask you from here, selling the Tank Palette Factory, selling the country's factories, their assets, for free, by taking sides? In fact, there are allegations that ASELSAN will be sold now. And we'd like to ask you for an explanation on that, is that correct? Spend billions of dollars on F-35s, even though they're not used to S-400? My second question is: Now, Russia has made a statement, saying Turkey should have the second cake of the S-400. I'm asking you, will you buy it? Yes, these are all weapons taken from the bread of the people, from a plate of food that the people eat. Why were they used, peace has come to the country? No. You have confessed yourself that we are taking the greatest border security measures in the history of the Republic. So it's a pity that so much investment in weapons, so much investment in hostile policies, has turned against us, unfortunately, war and violence. Again, what did Turkey gain from these policies? He won the hatred of the Kurdish people, was excluded from the Arab world. Now, apart from Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, he has no friends. Five million refugees came to the country. Turkey has become an ISIS nest. So that's all that's left over here. And you say: "This is a war of salvation." Yes, society says it is a war of salvation, but this will be a battle of salvation to be fought to get rid of you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I also want to talk about parallel defense systems, the SADAT. How much money is being poured into this company from covered funds or from different sources? Look, a country's fate has been handed over to a war company, and there's only one way this war company can make money: it's conflict, it's war. In Libya, SADAT went and fought with Turkey, choosing a side for Turkey, and now, one of the main reasons why we are at odds with many countries in the region is the use of the wrong politics and SADAT (SADAT) as a hit man. SADAT-like formations are trouble for Turkey, trouble for the world, and the manufacturer of SADAT is AKP. We're curious, how do you and your forces feel about SADAT? Because the army is no longer the former army, the citizens' military era is now being finished and companies such as SADAT are now wanted to be able to fight for the country. In this regard, I'd like to say that we're curious about what you think, especially the Turkish Armed Forces, and we're waiting for an explanation. Our dear peoples, you will remember, in a speech about the economic crisis, the President said: "The mission of the believer is to be patient in absence. I want to say in parentheses: Go ahead, be patient; rather be patient with the people; go yourself, face hunger and be patient. Can you be patient? And Palestinian artist Rim Banna says about patience: "We've been so patient as a tree trunk under a saw, we've been patient, like a bird whose flesh is cooked." But when the stone of patience cracks, I think everyone knows the answer to that, I'd like to share the answer in the lyrics of Ziad. The word here is used in a metaphorical sense, and it says: "I am not a heretic; hunger is a heretic, disease is a blasphemer, poverty is a blasphemer, and it is blasphemy to be condemned to live in disgrace. You'll take the bite out of my mouth, and then you'll call me a heretic. Who is the heretic?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0095par0307	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0094par0308	Yes, dear friends, not war, Ranta, Talan, and exploitation, the budget for the public... it will never go on like this anymore; you will go on, until we make a democratic public budget in these parliaments, and our fight will continue on the streets and in the squares and in the factories. I salute everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0096par0311	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0097par0312	After all, we're going to promise the Deputy Directors of the Group that there's been an application in the budget process.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0096par0313	Mr. President, not for the evaluation, but for the speaker who just spoke on the stand, all the speakers who spoke on behalf of the HDP Group have taunted our president and our ministers and our entire group. I demand to be bullied under Article 69 of the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0098par0314	No discrimination, wait your turn.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0096par0315	That's how we do it, Mr. President. When it comes to bullying, Mr. President, that's how we do the practice of teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0099par0316	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0096par0318	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. It's December 10th Human Rights Day. I congratulate you on our nation's Human Rights Day. Indeed, during the 19 years of AK PARTI rulings, we had silent revolutions in the field of human rights, democracy and freedoms, and we wrote epics about development.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0100par0322	Answer me this, then!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0101par0323	Answer this!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0096par0324	We've done some really great things. But the fact that we're all united in this day of human rights, that we're meeting all the terrors, terrorists, terrorist organizations in the common place, must be understood and expressed together. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I would like to point out that we are never and never Kurdish enemies, not Kurdish enemies. The Kurdish enemies are the PKK and its accomplices who slaughtered Kurds. As a result, Kurdish enemies are the ones who kill Kurds, who block their ears to the voice of their mothers of Diyarbakır. (HDP) Kurdish enemies are the ones who try to prevent investment in the region; those who cannot say PKK, terrorism, or terrorist, are the ones who can't curse them.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0102par0328	Who killed this woman?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0096par0329	Let everyone know that the PKK is the worst enemy of the Kurds in the fight against the imperialist power of attorney. (EC PARTY and OPERATOR) And the imperialists, as their supporters, should know that terror, terrorist support, will never and never be allowed to lead to terror. (AK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0103par0331	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0104par0332	Mr. President, you see...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0103par0333	Now, the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0105par0334	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0103par0335	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0106par0336	As you can see, he's the one who insulted me, the one who disrespected me.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0103par0337	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0107par0338	Mr. President, as a matter of fact...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0103par0339	Mr. Beştaş, I followed him. He said these are the enemies of the Kurd.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0107par0340	No, no, I'll tell him, Mr. President, I'll tell him. So I'll tell you what your problem is.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0108par0341	He's coming back to us, he's coming back to us.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0107par0342	In fact, our orator, we're talking about...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0109par0343	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0344	Excuse me?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0109par0345	Was there a taunt with HDP?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0111par0346	He said to the Kurdistan Workers'
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0347	There was no bullying, I followed you very carefully, no bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0112par0348	Mr. President, can I tell you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0350	Here, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0112par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, Mr. Akbasoglu was supposed to make a promise, and he had to say the taunting line, and he made a whole sentence. And we claim that our orators don't pick on us, their criticism...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0353	Mr. Beştaş, wait a minute, I've listened to his friends. From time to time, from statements made to the EC PARTY to the President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0112par0354	They did.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0355	They did a thing on him, yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0112par0356	And I'll tell you this: if you want a sentence, it's those who shut their ears to the mothers of Diyarbakır. He said, he meant us.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0357	Why would he mean you? He didn't use a statement like that.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0113par0358	He was talking back to us, Mayor, for God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0360	No, that's not...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0361	May I speak from here, Mayor?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0362	Sorry. They closed their ears to their Mothers of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0364	They're the ones who are stoned. He said they're the ones who are stoned.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0110par0365	So you're closing?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0366	We'll tell them we didn't close.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0115par0367	No, but wait a minute, did he say "HDP" and why did you take it?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0116par0368	He said PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0369	Mr. President, may I have my word?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0117par0370	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0371	So you appreciate it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0118par0372	Yeah, he's shrinking his lips, he says. They call him Omar.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0373	Mr. President, let me put it this way: we have much more vital matters to discuss today. All of our orators expressed the death of Garibe Gezer, who died in prison, who was led to death, who died in a suspicious way. And frankly, the pain about that is very fresh, very new, because we've been saying that a prisoner has been dead since yesterday in the state's care and responsibility. When we say these things, we don't really take the usual word "terrorism" seriously or seriously. We are the party that feels the voice of the mothers of Diyarbakır and the voice of all the mothers of Turkey and the breath of their hearts, no one doubts that. Today is December 10th, World Human Rights Day. Yes, the AKP has done something, right, about human rights and freedom in Turkey...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0119par0377	Mr. Beştaş, our Group Presidents are already considering it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0378	That's the way we do it, Mayor. Don't be coy, or I won't...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0119par0379	Please...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0120par0380	Let's ask for a word, and we'll talk about it, it won't be over then!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0381	Mr. Nightingale, we've also discussed the evaluation of each party.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0119par0382	Please...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0114par0383	I don't know why there's so much unrest today, but they've made me forget what I was going to say. On World Human Rights Day, he said that the AK PARTY had brought Turkey far, far, far ahead. And we want to point out that even the scraps of human rights and freedom have been destroyed, and let alone people's rights and freedoms now, that their right to live is threatened, that no one has any right to live or security left. Torture and the right to live are fundamental rights, the mother of rights. Today, with these rights, I mean, Turkey is going through the darkest, darkest period in its history.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0119par0385	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0121par0386	Mr. President, now, we may not need to have a conversation here, but since there's been an evaluation, let's make an assessment. So trying to make Turkey the mother of all evils in its region and in the world is a heavy sin. I'd like to express that we condemn this with violence and curse. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Now, there's talk of a state that has even given rise to the right of life, sir, that if there's a flaw in the state's activities, if there's one flaw in the state's activities, the judiciary is open, the whole business and process of the state is subject to judicial control, no matter what it takes, we have no objection to it. We're not going to stand against him in front of the government when no one dies unjustly, that's something else. But in this region, it's a great deal of trouble, a great deal of conflict, facing these kinds of accusations in the face of a very admirable state, a state that has this mentality, in the face of all that it's done, in order to keep people and humanity alive.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0119par0390	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0121par0391	... Now, in its region, it is the state of the Republic of Turkey, which welcomes the PKK/PYD-YPG, who welcomes them, welcomes them, to the point of changing the structure from the Syrian borders of 350,000 Kurdish brothers who are alleged to have been fighting the Kurdish struggle. I'll tell my master that as a country that welcomes all of them from Yezidi to Arab, Turkmen to Turkmen, all of them from the other side of the country, will a country that is so merciful to those who live outside the borders of its country punish and punish their own people in this way? I say here that we strongly reject all systematic criticism and accusations that the state of the Republic of Turkey faces in this direction. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0122par0396	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0397	Thank you very much. Mr. President --please, of course, I don't count this explanation as a continuation -- from the beginning of the budget, we've been at the point of answering when all members of the party group are talking, not when they're talking because they're talking more than one MP. On this occasion -- not from a taunt -- there are two things that need to be evaluated: one about Mr. Akbasoğlu, and one about HDP speaking, I believe, is Number Erdal Aydemir. Erdal Aydemir, our friend, said the judgment is based on America. We can't accept it, it's up to Judge Erdoğan. When only the President of the United States, the Chancellor of Germany, the President of France, Erdoğan, threatens Erdoğan, he submits to those threats and returns the prisoners and prisoners they want to their country.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0124par0401	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0402	That's what half of it is. The Turkish judiciary is not directly based on the United States, but in Erdoğan's judgment, in his direction, in his pressure, unfortunately, it's the truth. And I have to say, Mr. Akbasoglu, I'm very happy that the World Day of Human Rights on December 10th commemorated the Day of Human Rights, so I'm very happy, but in order to celebrate the Day of Human Rights, a person should not be standing behind a government that doesn't comply with those decisions, despite the European Court of Human Rights. Against the decisions of the ECHR, Demirtaş has no right to talk about the human rights of the political will that carried out this eclipse in a painting where Kavala was still held in prison. I'll tell you something else. The day before yesterday, Mr. Süleyman Soylu said, "We have finished terror here." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0125par0407	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0408	Today Turkey cries for four martyrs. And a word of advice to the EC PARTY: Stop fighting with the HDP; tell your government to fight terrorism properly, like a man.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0126par0409	Like a human being.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0410	Let him fight like a man. Turkey will not be fighting terrorism by terrorizing HDP (HDP). The government...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0412	He says, "Don't fight, negotiate, negotiate in Parliament."
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0413	You're negotiating with HDP, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0414	You're saying don't fight, because of the fact that they're all together with the PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0415	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0416	What does that have to do with...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0417	I'm telling you to fight the PKK effectively.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0418	Yeah, you know what he says? You know what they say.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0419	You sign under the same paper with HDP.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0420	You know what they say.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0421	Then why are you signing under the same paper?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0422	He says, "Abdullah, take Ocalan."
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0423	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0424	You know that!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0425	What's it to you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0426	Are you making HDP look good here?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0427	I don't know what to say to you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0127par0428	Is it up to you to defend HDP?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0429	What's it to you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0128par0430	We don't need anyone's beauty!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0431	What's it to you? What's it to you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0129par0432	Don't fight. Why are you being so sensitive?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0433	I'll defend whoever I want! None of your business!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0130par0434	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0435	None of your business! Mind your own business, mind your own business!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0130par0436	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0131par0437	I do my job, you do yours! It is not up to you to defend HDP (HDP)!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0123par0438	Why do you sit with HDP and sign on the same paper!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0131par0439	Let go, let go! Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) has fallen to CHP!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0132par0440	Mr. Altay, talk to us, we're listening.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0133par0441	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0134par0442	What I've been saying for months now is that the PKK is a low terrorist organization, the Republic of Turkey must fight it hard, decisively, relentlessly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0135par0443	Just tell me who's with him.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0134par0444	It's none of your business, brother, get out, you tell me!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0135par0445	It's not my business, it's yours! Tell me, who are those who are with him?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0134par0446	It's none of my business! It's none of my business!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0135par0447	Do you curse them, say them!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0134par0448	Shame on you! Shame on you! The Deputy Directors of the Group have no right to interrupt!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0135par0449	No, we don't have a conscience!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0134par0450	Mind your own business, mind your own business!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0135par0451	Come out, say it loud and clear, speak up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0136par0452	You know what?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0134par0453	If they're terrorists, then you won't be able to button up your jacket in front of HDP's Deputy Speaker and ask for a word.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0135par0454	I'd like that! I'd like that! I'll talk to him!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0134par0455	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0135par0456	I'm not talking to you, you talk to me!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0137par0457	Mr. President, there is no such procedure!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0138par0458	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0139par0459	I didn't make my point.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0138par0460	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0139par0461	It's the first time that a Group Vice President is picking on a Group Deputy, and that's impossible to understand.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0140par0462	There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0138par0463	Mr. Levent, let Mr. Altay finish his speech, and we'll give you our word and you can continue. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0141par0465	I'm just saying, there's a lot of mistakes being made here because they're trying to get votes in politics that exploit some parties, terrorism, martyrs.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0142par0466	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0143par0467	Shame on whoever's doing this!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0142par0468	We gave him three martyrs yesterday! Whose lawyer are you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0144par0469	Let's say it again...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0145par0471	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0146par0472	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0145par0473	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0146par0474	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's been said to our group that you're an enemy of the Kurd. [[HDP rankings ίYes!]] I left, made it clear that the Kurdish enemy was the PKK. HDP Group has been taken, HDP has been asked to defend it; it is clear and clear. Now, just now, Mr. Engin Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0147par0479	Right, let's keep it going for another hour. Now, I'll make a promise to HDP. Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0148par0482	It's important, it's important, Mr. President, let's talk for another hour.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0149par0483	Mr. President, look, I just made a statement without naming a party in any way: I said we should all curse the PKK terror organization together. However, in action of his own injury to this matter...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0150par0485	Don't you have your analysis, Mr. Akbasoglu?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0149par0486	HDP was obliged to make a statement on the matter. After that, Mr. Engin Altay told our president that the judiciary was tied to me and our group, and he made a mockery of it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0151par0487	That's right!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0149par0488	The judiciary is independent and neutral, acting on the basis of the Constitution, legislation and conscience.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0151par0489	What an app!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0149par0490	Never and never take orders from anyone, an organization, an institution.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0151par0491	Look at the app, the application!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0152par0492	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0149par0493	Let the people live on this matter, so that the state can live. In his understanding, we embrace and surround all 84 million of our people with freedom. I'm completing it, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0153par0496	No, speak for another five hours, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0154par0497	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0155par0498	Levette, wait a minute, I'll give you my word. Tell me if it's half an hour or five, and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0156par0500	Finally, the promise to everyone...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0155par0501	I get it, but...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0157par0502	We've been listening to a eunuch for two hours!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0158par0503	Shame on you for saying that.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0159par0504	It's not a porter...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0160par0505	Wait a minute... We recently lost a brother, a congressman among us, who had received his mercy. No one in this House has heard his voice, but when he has received his mercy, we have seen what a powerful MP he has become.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0161par0507	God rest his soul.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0160par0508	You know what that was? One minute we're talking, and we see how strong you are. The late Imran Sword, who lived here, God rest his soul, all political parties felt sorry for his death, for his depth. So I'm asking you, what can't be told in two minutes can never be told anywhere again. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0162par0511	Now, sir, it's going to be an extra minute, and it's going to be over in a minute, and I'm going to have to ask you again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, it's over now. If you open it...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0160par0514	Now, dear MPs, I will also promise Mr. Levent to...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0163par0515	The president mentioned my name and said that I would make a claim against the President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0160par0516	After all, let's make an assessment.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0163par0517	We'll have the budget by morning.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0160par0518	It won't be like this until morning. Leventie, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0164par0520	Mr. President, what I'm saying now is very clear. Our consciences don't accept: While we curse the PKK by calling it a traitorous terrorist organization, I kiss the person who did this to the last point of our voice, I say God bless him, but the person who says so should also take the same stand and stand against those who are friendly to the PKK. On the contrary, instead of standing up and arguing with the HDP as their guardian, look at this. The meaning means that there are some problems in the name of HDP. In a manner that is friendly to the PKK today, there is hypocrisy in its position against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the simplest terms. We can't possibly accept that. It is imperative that we say this in front of the High Council, as we have said.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0165par0522	Tell the AKP, the AKP!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0166par0523	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0167par0524	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0166par0525	Mr. President, what I'm saying is very clear. In every political party, there are people who are connected, connected, connected to some terrorist organizations in Turkey, we know that.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0168par0526	What do you mean?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0166par0527	Wait a minute, wait a minute! Levent, your sugar is high today! For example, there are some political parties, such as the AK PARTI, who are connected, connected, connected with the ISIS terrorist organization.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0169par0530	Where is it?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0170par0531	Tell them who they are!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0171par0532	You're slandering me like the President General!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0172par0533	That's why I can't say that the AAK PARTY is a terrorist. It would be wrong. HDP may also have people associated with the PKK. It's not right for the party to be institutionally terrorized. There's a traitorous terrorist organization in the middle, there's a PKK terrorist organization; that's where the state and the Assembly have to deal with it, that's what I'm trying to say. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0171par0534	Prove it, name it, then name it!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0173par0535	There was no doubt about it. He said, "It's a shame to refuse this relationship." You've never had any doubts?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0174par0536	Gentlemen... Wait a minute, Levent, wait a minute!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0175par0538	They praised ISIS; they praised ISIS, the AK PARTI.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0174par0539	We're setting up the grounds for everyone to express their thoughts freely. What I'm asking is, let's not try to explain in an hour what's going to be told in a minute. I also understood what everyone was saying, I understood, everyone understood: there's a PKK terrorist organization, it's shooting our military, it's shooting at our nation's unity, it's shooting at its mercy, nobody knows that, so let's get on with our agenda.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0176par0540	Mr. President, the CHP Deputy Director of the Group has just pointed to the AK PARTY and said, "There is a by LockIST among them."
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0177par0541	There's a guy in the light. He said.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0178par0542	There's a guy. He said, "Well, there's a guy."
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0179par0543	No, I didn't say by Lock, I didn't say by Lock.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0180par0544	I didn't say that. He says that.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0181par0545	There's someone who has contact with terror. He said, "There's a ByLock (c) in his speech." He said, "There's a ByLock"; he's a bastard who doesn't prove it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit02spe0180par0547	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0180par0001	Members of parliament, I open the Third Session of the 32nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account T) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Supreme Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY ACTIVITY OF TURKEY [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 EPISODE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. Now, let's begin the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0182par0052	Mr. President, Mr. Akbasoglu wanted proof, so here's the proof, sir, so I'll show you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0180par0053	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0182par0054	Proved, for the record, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0183par0055	Engin President, if the pictures prove it, there'll be lots of different pictures. That doesn't suit you, Engin President. If we just show the pictures, there'll be pictures.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0182par0056	Let's show it, let's show it together, brother.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0184par0057	Antalya MP Cavit Bee. Here you go, Mr. Bee.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0185par0060	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. Judgement is a place where a citizen seeks his rights and knocks on his door as a last resort to his victimization. Therefore, an independent and impartial judiciary is the most important requirement of the rule of law and democracy. Mr. Minister of Justice says there is only one ideology of justice in the state of law, which is justice. There is only one place where he will receive an order: the Constitution is the law, the law. It's our basic sensitivity. With this precision, we are deeply concerned about the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. For only an independent and impartial judgment can decide for the nation. What a fine and accurate statement. But have you been able to do that? No. Have you been able to free yourself from the burden of ruling? No. The greatest danger for a society is the gathering of the men of law, execution and judgment. That's exactly what we're going through today. We're dealing with a system in which legislation, execution, judgment men are being carried out almost in one hand today. Can there be justice or independent and impartial justice in a place where a political party leader appoints a judge in court? As a colleague, I see a number of regulations, especially UYAP, with the use of technology in judicial packages, and I want to express that they are useful in some sense. But can they make the judiciary neutral and independent, and will that be enough? Of course not. For example, you even destroyed the freedom of the republic's prosecutors, and you took it away. When a prosecutor makes a case today, he may first press charges if the attorney general says it's appropriate. Prosecutors are between the two lips of power today. What happens then? In this case, no lawsuits can be filed that the attorney general does not want, and therefore, what the government does not want. Look, today, thanks to power, Turkey was ranked 117th among the 139 countries in the 2021 Rule of Law Index. Mr. Secretary, the most important issue of our country is the question of trust in the judiciary. In your time of power, trust in neutral and independent judiciary has been reduced to 38 percent. What does that mean? That means there's no trust in the judiciary in our country, so fix it first. But let me tell you, you can't maintain that confidence under these circumstances. Still, you can't do that as long as the prosecutor serves as a judge, lawyers with a 45-year-old political identity, the mayor of AKP's staff, the mayor of the county, the MP's candidate. While a number of people who scored more than 80° points in the written exam are eliminated, you can't do that with judges and prosecutors whose references are based on politics, who received 55-60 points and were held by torpedo races. Mr. Secretary, you will never be able to do so with the fact that Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor Irfan Fidan, who has lifted measures on Sezgin Baran Korkmaz's assets, who has lifted the ban on leaving the country, who has been mentioned in these cases, has been appointed to the Supreme Court before HSK, without working even a day, without opening a case, and has again signed those decisions by the President, Deputy Public Prosecutor Hasan Yilmaz. The citizen is at a loss who he can trust. A judgment should be impartial in its decision; it should be able to make decisions without fear, without hesitation, not be influenced by politics, not try to look nice to political power. Look, I'd like to give you an example: there's a Kırcami zoning issue in Antalya that concerns 10 sites. This has been a matter of resolution for years. It is an unresolved issue in the AKP's rule and during the two-term AKP's Metropolitan Mayorate period. Each election was held several times by the government, and even in the local elections of 2019, the Minister of Environmental Urbanism, AKP Mayor, lawmakers, mayors put on a political show, the deeds were distributed, the citizen believed it, destroyed his house, cut down his tree, thought the planning he had been waiting for had been completed for years. What happened? The election has passed, the AKP has lost in Antalya. Who stepped in? It's a judgment call. Look, a case has been filed by the occupational room, and it's clearly written by experts that planning is perfect in every way, that the plan is appropriate, that there's no hesitation, that the expert report is like this, clear, clear. Okay, Antalya 1. What did the Supreme Court do? He decided, regardless of the report, that the plan would be cancelled, despite the fact that he had two reasons for making up the general practice, such a clear expert report. There's no telling if the court's eye is on the file or if he's in power. And then what happened? The file went to the Iconian District Administration Court to appeal, dear friends. What did this place do? He made a political decision that would be unprecedented, legal comedy. It is said in the case of the court of the first degree that the grounds for the cancellation of the plan are not true, but the decision is still correct. Look, my dear friends, such a comedy was made for a reason. So it was as if something had happened, even though nothing had once been expressed. This file was confronted with a reason similar to that of the statement. As a lawyer, we have never had a habit of criticizing a decision in our professional life, but I would still like to ask: What decision is this, and on what grounds has the judges decided, O those who have made this decision? Here's a clear example of what's being done in the shadow of politics. (HPP) Because the Kırcami issue, the resolution of the Kırcami plan by the CHP district and the capital city municipality, was blocked by the pressure of power by the judiciary, the instrument of justice was made, and so the judiciary was used to politics. The public will surely ask you, your power, the people of Kırcami, the people of Antalya, to ask your political account of this from your power, dear friends. Let's restore confidence in justice, end political intervention. Eliminate political identities in the judiciary, or justice loses value every day. In these circumstances, neutral and independent judgment is just a name, but it's not the truth, dear friends. Mr. President, as you know, Anthalya has experienced forest fires, and I'd like to point out one important thing: Unfortunately, the Department of Agriculture and Forestry has failed to put out the fires, and there has been an abandoned fire process, unfortunately, in the use of necessary aircraft and helicopters. Instead of fighting the fire, the political struggle was preferred. Now, in this situation, our citizens are now abandoned to their fate. Thousands of our citizens' homes burned down, their stables burned down, their animals lost, and now there's a serious loss here. The President came and said, "You will pay 40 per cent of us to build your homes." He said, "The Minister of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change has arrived. We will pay 50 per cent as a state, you will pay 50 per cent as a state." What happened after that? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0186par0072	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0185par0073	The citizen was made to sign open contracts. The citizen doesn't know what to pay right now, but on the one hand, the construction of the houses has been auctioned off. Look, on the one hand, contractors are building houses right now, but the citizen doesn't know how much he's going to pay, dear friends. I asked the vice president how much money are these houses built for, and how much will the citizen pay? Because these people, 60 years old, 70 years old, 80 years old, are in debt with open contracts. I want to tell you what the Vice President's response is: ▪ Because the prices and discount rates have not been made clear, the citizens have not been informed. • What kind of disgrace is this? Construction started, the contractor got a job, the citizen got an empty contract, but the citizen doesn't know how much he's going to pay. Dear friends, don't take money from citizens whose house was burned down in a forest fire; these people have already been victimized, I'm telling you, avoid their victims. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0187par0077	The order belongs to Mr. Ayhan Gunitan, the Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0188par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The AKP's power has led to a deadlock in agriculture as well as in all areas, while our country's food security has been compromised. During your time of power, our farmer's mother cried, you destroyed agriculture and the farmer. We don't talk about it for nothing, we don't throw it out of the air. Now, I'm going to give you examples and data of the reasons for all of this: the agricultural sector's GDP in 2002 fell from 10.2 to 6.7 percent in 2020. In the 2022 budget, the share of agricultural support fell below even in 2002, at 1.5 per cent. You're a power in love with imports and ranta. Look, there's another stunning data: when we had an export of $88 billion from 2003 to 2021, our import was $122 billion, so our foreign trade deficit in agriculture is exactly $34 billion. Again, in your time, the imports of seeds, pesticides, fertilizers and food were paid $133 billion, and these entries, particularly diesel, were given to your power by unprecedented increases in the history of the Republic. The diesel wasn't even $5 last year, but it went up over $10 this year. Mr. Secretary, the high-value lawmakers I hold in my hand are much more critical in the fertilizer. Soon it will be sold with a license from the Ministry, perhaps with a gram, not surprising if it's sold at jewelry stores; it's worth more than gold. (CHEERING) How could it not be like that? Look, last year's fertilizer cost $1,800 a ton 17 months ago, and now it's got £4,500 a ton, so it's up 8 times. That's why we carefully brought this fertilizer here so that nothing could happen to it. The most painful thing is that because our farmer has no money to drink tea in his pocket, he can't drink a large cup of tea for 1.5 lira, he has to buy a kilo of it for 10 cups of tea. I say, "Woe to me! If so, our farmers won't be able to use fertilizer in all products, and that means quality and efficiency loss, especially the food crisis is at the door of wheat. Speaking of wheat, Mr. Secretary, you bought this wheat from our farmer for $2.25 last year, and now you're importing this wheat from abroad for $4.5 to $5. If you were going to pay so much for imports, if you were going to make money for foreign farmers, what if you gave it to our own farmer? Would you die? (Remember) when you were in the land and you were in it, so let them eat from your homes and your habitations. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] In addition, due to these high production costs, the farmer will be able to produce his wheat this year, but in the new season the cost of one kilogram of wheat will be $5. How much is this farmer going to sell his wheat to save his cost? So, how much can the consumer get for the bread, how can the citizen eat bread? The consumer won't even find bread, and you're responsible for this painting. God forbid there's a drought like last year. Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, this lemon, this lemon branch, 30 cents on the tree. The manufacturer, now, cuts down lemon trees. The manufacturer trusted the government, trusted you, believed you, planted these trees, but now they're cutting them down, it's a pity, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, let the government help you. Article 45 of the third chapter of our Constitution's title of Social and Economic Rights and Homeworks, states that the state takes measures and measures to evaluate plant and animal products and to get its true value into the hands of the manufacturer. Where's the precaution? I think you understand caution, to finish the farmer, to destroy agriculture. But you'll never make it. Also, please hear the voice of our young men who have been waiting to be appointed in agriculture all this time, Mr. Secretary. Agriculture, food, water products, fishing technology engineers, vets...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0189par0089	Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0188par0090	...assign technicians and technicians; give them a concrete calendar. Also, solve their problems, improve their wages in order to humanize our agricultural advisors who work at the same price as last year, even under the minimum wage. As I put an end to my words, Mr. Secretary, we're giving you one more open call here: it's obvious that you can't do this job. Do our people a favor by making an early decision with your government, and we'll get rid of you and your wrong policies. At least don't keep that office occupied as the unemployable Minister of Agriculture. This budget is not the budget of the people, it is the budget of power, it is the Rantists and its supporters. We call this budget no. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0190par0096	In turn, it belongs to Antalya MP Aydın Özer. Here you go, Mr. Özer.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0099	Mr. President, we've been interviewing our farmers all over Turkey for months, listening to their troubles, their troubles, trying to speak to their voices every chance we get, and today we're here on behalf of the farmers. Mr. Secretary, the farmers told us to give you a report card for this year. First, let's look at the topics in which you are responsible: Mr. Minister, the number of farmers who left production in the first eight months of 2021 is 128.620, the amount of support that should be given to the farmer in 2021 is 66.5 billion, and the amount of support that is not given to the farmer in 2021 is 43.5 billion, and the amount of export revenue in 2021 is 37.6 billion, and the money paid for imports is 66.2 billion -- 28.6 billion -- in 2021. In the first eight months, the forest burned down in 2021, 178 thousand hectares, and in 2018, the agricultural area dating out of production was 3 million 440,000 hectares. Mr. Secretary, the opinion of our farmers is that they are ignoring our problems, they are reckless, the ministry is not fit to do it, and since he can't resign, his pardon must be accepted. And they gave you a note on 100, Mr. Secretary. 100 out of 100, 100 out of 100, 100 out of 100, 100 out of 100, 100 out of 100, 100 out of 100, 100 out of 100, 100 out of 100 people who can't even support a feeder, 100 out of 100, 150 thousand people who can't keep up with the law. Besides, there's a section that gives you a positive grade. The farmer of the hand, not the Turkish farmer, is giving you 100 over 100 because you dropped him, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Madam Secretary, I'd like to touch down on something else. At the budget meeting on the commission, I'm in charge of the 150,000-strong organization where your Ministry's bureaucrats claim that there's been a $120,000 bribe in cattle imports, but I can't take care of everyone, but when I find something, you said you'd do it. Now, I'm going to present you with a file.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0192par0102	Whatever you know, go now, the prosecutors are there.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0104	Let it be over, Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0193par0105	Just a minute, Mr. Secretary. Go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0107	I'll give you the file. I'll give you his file.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0194par0108	If you can't prove your claim, you're an asshole.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0110	A while ago, a citizen arrived from outside Ankara.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0194par0111	The prosecutors are there.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0113	Guys, just a minute, please. Guys, you don't answer, I'll answer him.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0194par0114	Why haven't you gone so far?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0195par0115	Don't do this!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0116	He's in his 40s, grade school graduate, father of three, said he was conned by a bureaucrat and his men. The story is: This citizen is applying for a job through a trade union in October 2017, where he was hired in June 2018. Under it are the signatures of the district manager, the assistant district manager, and the chief of staff. In July 2018, he was ordered to start work, but instead he was replaced by someone else, such as the later film. A report comes to the citizen: your bureaucrat has taken care of business for $100,000. A friend of yours hand-delivers $100,000 to a man sent by your bureaucrat, but the promise is still not true. The citizen then complains to the Director General of the Forest about the incident. Investigative investigations are conducted, no results are found; citizens file complaints about judgment, and this time the review board handles the process. The citizen has been victimized, it is decided to fix it, but nothing will be corrected; it is now in the state's attorney's office of the republic. On October 18, 2021, the citizen testified again following the dissolution of a previous non-obsession ruling in the investigation. Of course we'll follow the process. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to present this file to you in a moment, including official correspondence-looking documents on the letter issued to the citizen, 15,000 lira note sent to the public by your bureaucrat, audit board, prosecution statements and so forth.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0196par0119	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0120	So even if you can't find anything, I believe you'll find something. By the way, we submitted a motion to you on November 3rd. The Director General of the Forest sent us an official response to the press, saying: "This person is lying. We can't know if he's lying, but the person whose family integrity has broken down will not let it go if his children are mocking him. Mr. Secretary, I wish you'd looked after your bureaucrats. Our desire is not to have the number of victims, but the number of moral bureaucrats; it will be our effort. Minister, after a increase of between 200 per cent and 400 per cent to fertilizer prices in Turkey in the last year, the wheat planter today has been unable to deliver fertilizer, so he uses 50 per cent of the fertilizer he used last year. That means that in 2022, it would be an estimated 40 percent of recolcoltent, very low. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0197par0126	Yes, it's over, it's over; I promised you one minute.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0198par0127	The Minister intervened, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0128	Oh, yeah? Well, Mr. President, I don't know, I thought you might have added that when you got interrupted.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0197par0129	I gave you a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0130	Okay, thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0197par0132	Our Edirne MP is Okan Gaytancıoğlu. Don't give it to me, then...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0191par0134	I'll give you a file, Mr. President. It's nothing bad.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0197par0135	Send it later.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0199par0136	If there's anything, Mr. Secretary will do as he pleases.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0197par0137	Mr. Gaytancioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0200par0139	Mr. President, I'm not going to talk about their prices, Mr. Secretary, what you've done to Turkey, Turkey is an agricultural country, it's self-sufficient country, and I want to talk about what you've done to yourself. Look, Mr. Secretary, we make more than half of this bread with imported wheat. Mr. Secretary, do you copy? Mr. Secretary, we make more than half of this bread with imported wheat. Turkey will import 11-11.5 million tonnes by the end of this year. You know what that means? We'll pay $4 billion for it. Where do we get this money? When you arrived, the farmer owed a billion dollars, you raised 210 billion, what the hell! I don't want to talk about the price of this. It was $8 last year, I bought it yesterday morning for $28. If it continues like this, it'll be $50 next year, $50 next year. Half of that, half of that oil, we import from Russia and Ukraine. I don't understand what kind of agricultural policy you're running. Look, it's milk. Cows to give you this milk, though, you wouldn't understand. Why? You have nothing to do with agriculture. We feed this milk so the cows can give it to us. Do you realize that 70% of this milk comes with imported bait, Mr. Secretary? But you don't know anything. Let me show you this. It's a new farming tool. In 2022, the farmer will use a new agricultural tool, salt shaker. He'll throw fertilizer with saltpeter, why? Last year a ton of fertilizer was $1,800, thanks to you. Now, he's going to come up here, and he's going to say: "The prices are going up in the world, what should we do?" "The prices are going up in the world, but even India has given $600 million to the Indian farmer." The Chinese stopped selling ammonia to the world, stopped selling phosphoric acid. What did we do? It's that, when we disagree, none of the fertilizer factories you privatized are in the government, and they agree every day is a raise. The rise in natural gas is reflected in the same fertilizer. All the world's countries are trying to get farmers to go to the fields, to use fertilizer, and our farmers are currently dealing with foreclosures, executions. Farm Credit Cooperatives farmers had debts, and I warned the Minister here last year, he didn't even know about it, he saw it on TV. The same things began to happen, two days ago -- I can name them -- he went to Poletlı, and the bailiffs entered a barn, and counted the cows in the barn. Yesterday they went to Amasya, and counted a tractor, and now they count it. You don't know when you're going to do the configuration, you don't know if you're going to take it off. There's no extra payment for the farmer who paid his debt, but 20,000 poor farmers are under foreclosure, so they asked you for an appointment, and you canceled it ten minutes away. You guys know everything. It's a drought, and it's not going well this year, and it's not going well this year. You're just starting to pay the drought money, it's been six months. It rained upon our region, and upon Meric, and upon our land. You called it past. Yeah, what kind of government are you? Why don't you like this manufacturer, why do you always seek help from other countries? You're always resetting customs taxes. What kind of a thing is that? Why don't you support the farmer, why don't you give all this resources somewhere else, to a gang of five? Don't worry, I don't want to do this literature anymore. Why? Because you're a goner. We will come to power. (CHP clapping) Going, going, coming, coming. When we come to power, we will implement a brand-new agricultural policy. Once we clear the interest on the farmer's debt, folks.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0201par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0200par0147	And then it's based on production planning, so we're going to produce all the products that we import, all the products that we've given $14-15 billion, we're not going to import from outside, we're going to make money, we're going to give money to treasure, because Turkey needs to grow, it needs to divide healthyly. After that, we'll put a lot of emphasis on watering. Yeah, you guys are fooling people. There's a lighter dam in our area, it's been opened 13 times, it's been cut 13 times. Money's being paid, nothing's happening. The contractor says: "They don't pay well, but only 20 percent of the first part is finished with the money given. " We're going to give serious funding to agriculture, water 4 million per year. Everything is planned for us. We're the party that built this country. We're going to save this country. We're going to produce it with a plan and create a country that shares its rights.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0202par0151	The order belongs to Mr. Genghis Gökçel. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0203par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. We're talking about the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry budget. Now in our country, agriculture is like that, the farmers are exhausted, the farmers are finished, the farmers are moving away from production. The agricultural sector is shrinking. So, is there a measure in this budget for the farmer to go back into production? Is the source separated? No. Look, the farmer can't pay the BUG-KUR, he can't buy fertilizer, he can't buy pesticides, he can't buy bait, seed, he can't buy seedlings. He can't get the eyeballs, the eyeballs. Now you'll all be surprised, what's with the eyeballs? Dear friends, eyestone is a very essential ingredient in plant production in multi-year-old trees. But our farmers can't reach the price, can't find the product. Farmer debt increased 70 times during the AKP period. So now he owes over $200 billion to farmers. Is there a source in this budget for these loans? Do you have a strategy to increase production, Mr. Secretary? Look, there were no unhappy farmers in your era, Mr. Secretary says. At least 3 million hectares of land in the AKP's rule have gone out of agriculture. That's where agriculture comes from in Turkey. Who's happy? Oh, there are happy ones. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary, which country's Minister of Agriculture are you? If there are happy farmers, the farmers of the countries where you import agricultural products are happy. How's my farmer going to get $14.5 of diesel and Dap urine for $14.5 and take the bait for $200 and produce it? Do you ever think about that? How are you going to take precautions on these things? I'm asking you guys, do you have any father-in-law to produce under these circumstances? Mr. Secretary, can you produce these conditions? Our farmer can't pay the electric bill for thousands of dollars, he can't pay the BUG-KUR debt, he can't buy gas for his tractor. If he doesn't get the diesel, how will he water his land, how will he drive it, how will he operate it, how will the production increase? (CHP clapping in rows) How happy is the farmer? If there was a source in this budget, maybe he'd be happy, farmer, but he doesn't. This is the budget to finish the Turkish farmer. Look, you impounded the farmer's tractor, impounded his fields, seized his livestock in the stables; it wasn't enough, you put the farmer in jail for his debt. The agricultural bank's websites are for sale, friends full of farm ads for sale, farm ads. That's what the Minister brings in agriculture. If the farmer is winning, what are these ads, Mr. Secretary? You finished the Turkish farmer. $114 billion was imported in agriculture during the AKP period, and that's what you are. Dear friends, this country is actually a paradise of agricultural production, but our people can't buy flour, milk, cheese, no eggs, no oil. Our citizens are waiting for hours to get the bread at a price. Here are some friends, and some friends say that they wait in line because you don't increase production. They say, "Dear friends, people are getting stale labor the next day for half the price." Let me tell you about the country! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Do you know that? The bagel makers are selling half a bagel now. As a Turkish citizen, I'm ashamed of it, I don't know if you're ashamed of it. Yesterday I sold coleslaw at a market." he shouted at me. Dear friends, as a farmer, I scream, I burn." The citizen shouts when he buys from the market. It's obvious what you've done with this country. Shame on you now. If you can't fix this, you can't do this.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0204par0161	Please, Mr. Genghis, complete.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0203par0162	Mr. President, thank you. From here, I tell all Turkish farmers that in our power, we will first wipe off the interest of farmers' debt, program agriculture, start an agricultural production move. We're going to be the agricultural country that exports to agricultural products again. We'll support our farmer by 1 percent of the national income, it's as good as their mother's white milk. We'll remove the OTV from the farmer's gas. We'll clear taxes on agricultural electricity. The government hasn't appointed for a year; we'll send agriculture engineers, veterinarians, technicians, technicians to every village, cheapen the fertilizer, increase the production, contribute to the farmer's need to be rehabilitated, we'll build it together, and we'll divide it by rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's on its way. [[Applause from CHP rows, laughing from AK PARTY rows]] Laugh, friends, laugh, laugh, shame on you, what else can I tell you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0205par0168	Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer is in line. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0206par0171	Mr. President, the precious MPs, there have been droughts in 50 counties in our country, no crops in the fields planted, no harvests in the fields, no harvesters in the fields, the orchards, the gardens are dry, the manufacturer is devastated, the drought support is not enough; the farmer is happy. Seeds, drugs, watering water, electricity bills were folded; onion remained in the fields, lemons; farmer, feeder, manufacturers did not make money for their production; he could not pay the loans, high interest has bent his back. We said, "The AKP didn't hear the power, the farmer's property was seized; the farmer's property is happy." Prices went up in fertilizer; CAN fertilizer went up to $1,160 a year, at 9,000 lira a ton of DAP fertilizer, at $2,400 a pound of fertilizer, at $1,800 a pound of fertilizer, up to $1,700 a pound of fertilizer, adding farm seed to the ground without fertilizer or insufficient fertilizer, producing and recolte loss, food crisis is at the door, if no precautions are taken; the minister said the farmer is happy. The livestock turned into torment, the bait price went off, the milk cowman was unable to sell 1 litre of milk milk milk, the milk cow was sent to the slaughter, and the feeder sold animals for harm, the stockyards were empty, and the farmer said, "The farmer is happy." Mr. Secretary, our farmer is not happy, so if you want him to be happy, cut the food and fertilizer prices in half. You gave our farmer a barley-based price of $1,750, and you imported barley from a foreign farmer at $4,550 a ton. You gave our farmer a base price of $2,250 for wheat for bread, and you imported wheat from a foreign farmer at $5,000 a ton. If you want the farmer to be happy, give our farmer the difference between the wheat you imported from the foreign farmer and the base price you paid us. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, in the grain, in the beans, in the rice, in the herbal raw oil, in cotton, in soy, in food, in fertilizer, you have condemned the country to imports, you have made foreign farmers happy, but instead of making our country's farmer happy, you have kicked his ass, you have left him alone and helpless. There's no end to problems in agriculture without your eyes changing. The farmland is narrowing down, the farmers are running low. You don't plan in agriculture, there's more than one product garbage every year, consumers are forced into expensive products; markets, markets, places of fire. You don't protect the consumer, you keep making the middlemen, the importers rich. You're also the Minister of Food. Most of the products that the low-income, poor man, buys are counterfeit and tassels, are taking over the tricky products. Unspecified food products, milkless cheese, rigged honey, energy drinks that don't match the food codex, rigged meat and dairy products that roam the market. You're not protecting the manufacturer or the manager who's doing the right thing. Every day, the increase in product on the shelf blew up off the record. In the market, it's either starch-based or synthetic sweetener products. And you haven't explained the results of the audits you've been doing on the market over a year about counterfeiting and battery products. The citizen doesn't know what he's eating, what he's drinking, what its content is, no one knows it properly. No matter what he does, he's trying to take whatever he finds and use it as his own food, which is narrowed down by the economic depression you've created. Look, Mr. Secretary, this is the label for a lemonade glass you see in my hand. What does this label say? Where is this being sold? Grocery stores, wedding halls. You know what it also says on this label? ▪ How do you allow it, and how does your conscience deal with children's activities and attention? These kids have them in the wedding hall, your kids. How do you allow a product that is harmful to children? (HPP) How does your conscience agree to allow a harmful product to be sold to Turkey since 2015, as a synthetic sweetener?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0207par0178	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0206par0179	Apart from the cancerogen content, you're playing with our health with these foods. You've finished farming as AKP in 20 years. You put the country at risk in food. You're not protecting the farmer, you're not protecting the consumer, you're playing with the health of the people. You're going to be inspected by drumming, so take the lead. We're coming. Let the municipalities handle these audits, and let our health at least be protected in the future. Mr. Secretary, my friends just told me that you've reduced this citizen to half a bagel from a bagel shop, $3.5 lira bagel, $3 on bread. Stop endangering the health of the citizen. Also, non-assigned agriculturalists, food engineers, veterinarians, why can't you assign these? If there's livestock in every village, if there's veterinary, if there's agriculture, there's an agricultural engineer... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't you have a face to look at me? At least look at me, listen to what I'm saying, Mr. Secretary! You've been looking over there for ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0208par0186	Do I have to look at you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0206par0187	So don't be so embarrassed... I don't want your resignation, you know why?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0209par0188	Yes, well, Mr. Fethi Gürer...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0208par0189	Do I have to look at you, or do I have to?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0206par0190	Your mentality is the AKP's mindset, I don't want it now.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0208par0191	Why are you shouting! What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0210par0192	Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere. Here you go, Mr. Tutdere.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0211par0195	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0212par0196	Idiot!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0211par0197	Are you talking to me, you idiot? You're an idiot! Know your place! [[A group of CHP MPs gather in front of the Commission, noise]] He's yelling at me, you idiot! You're the idiot! Shameless!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0213par0200	Congressman... Gentlemen... Congressmans, we have an MP on the stand who's about to speak... Mr. Tutdere, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0214par0205	Mr. President, if you can keep the peace, let me say so, because there's a lot of humming going on.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0213par0206	Hold on a second. [[Whistling]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0215par0209	Punish him, Mayor!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0213par0210	There's a speaker, he'll talk; I invited the Congressman.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0215par0211	He can't insult me. Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0216par0212	Mr. President, let him take it back, I'll make him eat it! Let him take it back!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0217par0213	Let's get a statement.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0215par0214	He's insulting the public defender!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0218par0215	Go ahead, Mr. President... Mr. President, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0219par0216	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. Engin, did you say something?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0220par0217	Let's take a look at the report. If there is such a thing, Mr. Secretary will fix it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0219par0218	Gentlemen, I'm going to look at the report now, and if there is such a thing, I'm going to evaluate the matter with the Minister or with the other friends. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0221par0220	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, we're discussing the budget of the Justice Department, the budget of the Ministry, which is the backbone of law in the state of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to briefly sum up this budget with a photograph. Dear MPs, this is the mother, Emine Şenyaşar. A grieving mother at Suruç State Hospital on 14 June 2018, in front of cameras in front of the government's institution, who killed her and her two children in a violent murder. Mr. Secretary, this mother has been on a justice watch for 287 days, since there has been no trial against this case three and a half years ago. This mother's demand for justice must be met. Yesterday, Turkey's rights, law and justice advocate, Republican People's Party's President, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, visited the mother. Mr. Secretary, Emine wants justice from you, the ministers want justice from you, the lawmakers want justice from you. Emine says, "Get me out of this burden." Now that he's shed tears, he's got 80% loss of sight in his eyes. Minister, this file is the shame of Turkey. This investigation must be launched immediately, regardless of the political identities of the perpetrators, regardless of their political influence, brought to justice and brought to account, which is what the nation expects of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, in one country, if some judges do not implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, there is a politician on a national television who takes 10,000 dollars of bribes from the Mafia every month, if some files are being placed in a dirty hand of politics, if people are being explicitly instructed to judge justice, not from lawyers, not even from political parties, if politicians and children are being killed every day, politicians and journalists are being arrested, if the Cabinet Minister of Interior is looking for justice, there is a politician on national television. If he says and there is no lawyer who will sue these statements, there is no one who will be able to prosecute the opposition leaders, there is no justice, and there is no justice, and there is no one who will be held against justice, and there is no justice, and there is no one who will not talk of justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, there are a lot of problems at the Justice Department, not only are there problems to tell; lawyers have problems, judges have problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Secretary, there are very serious requests from our fellow lawyers to review the case. In some courts, lawyers are asked to make copies of IDs to examine files, petitions are requested. This is obviously an intervention in defense, we can't accept that. Today, there are serious issues with high judgment. Mr. Secretary, there are no high-judgment files in the Supreme Court, especially because of senior and inexperienced examination judges. That's not enough, even though you've done it for two years.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0222par0229	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0221par0230	In order for justice to be carried out fully in Turkey, the problem of examination judges and the shortcomings of the Supreme Court's Attorney General's Office must be resolved. Dear Minister, the esteemed MPs, and yesterday we were in Şanlıurfa. Mr. Minister, in Şanlıurfa Type E Closed Prison, especially Eyüyübiye E-type prison, the prisoners were told that they were facing a mangy epidemic and that there were no measures taken. We invite you to be sensitive about this, too. The law is out of control in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with the power we will receive from the nation in the nearest election, God willing, we will bring justice to this country. (Applause from CHP rows) Together, we will meet this request from all our citizens who are longing for justice in Turkey. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0223par0235	Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakvert.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0224par0237	Mr. President, I salute all of you, my fellow congressmen, Mr. Secretary and valued bureaucrats. Today is World Human Rights Day, and I've prepared a speech on prison. I'd like to inform you of the six basic issues in prison. Among them are health, nutrition, rights to petition, transfers, access to education, the book, and the rights of officers, along with all of them. I want to briefly explain: First of all, there are only one family physician in five days a week, five to half a week, one family doctor in five days a week, and one family physician in two days a week, according to the number of people in prisons, including staff and prisoners, according to Article 5 of the Protocol signed between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health. The number of prisoners is high, the prison conditions are bad, so this number must be definitely increased, and this Protocol must be renewed; it has to be at least twice the number. Other than that, there's another obstacle to health access, handcuffed examination. Now, again, there's been a handcuffed examination in Article 38 of Protocol. The prisoner is going to the hospital, but he's being asked to handcuff the doctor with written paper. Why would the doctor give you this paper, why would he keep it on the doctor? He's not taking responsibility for this. Preliminary conservative examination rooms must be performed, absolutely, absolutely uncuffed. It is a violation of human dignity and must end in Article 17 of the Constitution. Other than that, the prisoners can't feed, so I'm not saying they can't eat healthy, the prisoners can't feed anymore. The thing is, do you guys know how much the prisoners charge for daily labor? $11.5, $11.5. Now, today inflation is 60 percent, so you have to admit, don't; TİK says 21 percent, but no one believes it anymore. Today, bread is 2.25 in Ankara and 2.5 lira in Istanbul. You don't approach cheese, olives, citizens have already forgotten the meat, so if you pay the prisoner $11.5 today, that means the prisoner dies of your pain.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0225par0241	It's not even a dollar.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0224par0242	A deputy of ours just told us that food is not eaten, it's thrown away. Because you're not giving away the budget for quality food. That's why all the food is wasted. The prisoners are starved, at the price of this trade. Other than that, there's another right to petition for trouble. Yes, the right to petition is a fundamental constitutional right in Article 74 of the Constitution. But the prisoner makes the petition, he doesn't know the outcome, he doesn't get calls. Now, we've come to one thing: three years ago, I began membership in the Human Rights Commission, and three years later, I received a Constitutional Court ruling and an example of a petition. A prisoner in prison wrote the same letter to a member of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) MP, reached out to him, but didn't reach me, blocked the prison administration. And the reason is that he's disparaging the prison. Yeah, he doesn't have the right to pass a situation on to me in prison, but he's entitled to pass it on to the AKP deputy. When did I learn that? Three years with the Constitutional Court's ruling, and I've learned that. It must be avoided, and it must be avoided, at this pleasure. Another problem is the big ones. Okay, we'll admit that the prisoner can't choose the prison he wants, but the prisoner must be imprisoned in a prison close to his family. The state must take protective measures of its family unity and integrity, which is the responsibility of this state. For this reason, the prisoner must be kept, but surely, close to his family; otherwise, when the prisoner is driven further away, when he is sent away, it is persecution for both the prisoner and his family. For example, the last time we were in Afyon Prison, along with the Commission. Yes, a prisoner told me that I stay far away from my family; my mother is old and hasn't seen her in five years; she hasn't been able to come in five years. All of these are anti-human rights practices, and they need to be stopped, and prisoners' shipments need to be fully opened, and no barriers are set. Finally, there is another problem that concerns all of these problems: the employee's rights problem. Now, 384 prisons, 70,000 personnel, 266 thousand capacity.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0226par0247	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0224par0248	Now, in the face of this capacity, the death guard is a civil servant of 657, but he's in the class of general administration services. Yeah, he's harder on the police, harder on the military, he's supposed to be in the law enforcement class, but he's in the general management service class. Besides, there are differences between contractor and staff, there are gaps; equal wages should be paid; another issue must be given 3600 additional indicators; and the contractor must be granted the right to increase in office. You know why this is important? For the sake of peace in prison, these rights are important to the death guard. Now, this is both criticism and suggestion to today's power. They do, they don't; we don't know, but it's our word. In the power of the National Alliance, I say we are ready to keep those promises, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0226par0251	Anthalya MP Rafet Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0227par0254	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, we all know that our country is facing a very heavy economic problem. People are confused, they don't know what to do. As we get used to the one-day price hikes, we're getting an hour's price increase, but in addition to this economic problem, our country still has two very heavy basic problems. One is the problem of democracy, one is the problem of law. My dear friends, if we can't solve the very heavy problems of democracy and law, we'll never get the economy straight. To do that, we must immediately, first and immediately -- this country no longer tolerates the waiting -- the shortcomings of democracy, the errors of the law. My dear friends, if we don't see heavy economic problems in this country, the problems of democracy, the problems of law, we'll be in a state of ignorance, deception, and even treason. (CHEERING) None of us have the right. We will see these facts, and in light of these facts, we can only solve the problems of this country. My dear friends, what is the foundation of the democratic state? Powers are separation. Legislation, execution, judgment; they should be strengthened separately, but we combine them together and gather them into one force. Is it possible to sustain democracy, law, economics in a country like this? My dear friends, look, if the legislature can't do anything outside the administration of the administration and only raises their hand and downloads it, then the House is under custody.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0228par0258	Replicate your chair...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0227par0259	A House under guardianship can't solve the problems of this country. Therefore, we can't solve any of the problems of this country unless we bring a system that can control each other by strengthening the separation of forces again, but not interfering with each other's work. My dear friends, look, there's a serious legal problem. Yes, the foundation of the state of law, Minister knows very well, is independent judgment. Yes, there is no justice in a country if there is no independent judgment. Look, Turkey's judgment is unfortunately in great trouble, it's in great trouble, but so far it hasn't been resolved. Mr. Secretary, I've always said that in good faith, there are five of them, out; now the sixth one is said to be the future, but none of this solves the problems of the judiciary, my dear friends. Maybe it's a need, it's a need, and we have support, but when justice comes to the point of dismantling, it's unfortunate that independent judgment didn't stay in the country. Therefore, if justice is the basis of the state, justice is the basis of independent justice and the most important part of this independent judiciary is undoubtedly the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. If the Board of Judges and Prosecutors is being instructed anywhere -- wherever it is -- if he's doing it according to an investigation, if he's deciding according to the directive, there's no independence in the judiciary, friends, let no one deceive himself, don't do it. (CHEERING) I mean, this country is going down, so don't. Look, the Council of Judges and Prosecutors is under full custody of the Presidential Board of Law Policy. Serious, or rather important decisions are all made there. Yes, it comes as a decision from the Court of Judges and Prosecutors, but it's another will that makes that decision. If we can't get the Presidential Legislature off the board of Judges and Prosecutors, we can never call the Council of Judges and Prosecutors independent. That's why I'm asking Mr. Secretary to speak to Mr. President and say, "Let us do our job as Judges and Prosecutors' Board, let us do ours."
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0229par0262	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0227par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, look, I told you in the last commission, if there are courts in a country that don't know the Constitutional Court, nobody talks to me about justice, independent justice, law. If there is a court in a country that does not recognise the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, the judiciary will not be independent in that country, and it is a problem. It's not solved without the facts of that question, you'll see it, you'll diagnose it. You still call it independent and impartial judgment. What independent and impartial judgment? My dear friends, there's bound to be people you know with courthouse problems, citizens. You're not talking? I talk too much. Yeah, he doesn't, he doesn't. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If there is no trust in judgment in a country, how will you distribute justice in that country? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0230par0270	To speak of this, Congressman Flood Köse... Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0231par0273	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I cherish our soldiers who were martyrs in Operation Claw-Transport. My condolences to their grieving families. Today is December 10th, World Human Rights Day. I also celebrate Human Rights Day. According to statistics released by the European Court of Human Rights each year, our country, unfortunately, is coming at the top of the countries that have violated human rights the most, and Turkey is being accused of most violations in cases involving unfair and irregularly long arrests, and arrests in Turkey have been systematically and widely mistaken, chronic and systematic. My dear friends, of course, in an AKP power approaching 20 years, the point where justice has come to our country, the injustices that have been done, the phases that Mr. Justice Minister can solve with his well-intentioned efforts, and this problem has become such a chronic problem, that it has become a structural problem, that it has now gone beyond the limits of a number of laws that can be solved by such palliative measures. Of course, five minutes is not enough time to explain the persecution of 84 million of our people because there is no injustice or justice in the 20-year AKP administration. My dear friends, our friends who have come have always said that the greatest obstacle to justice is independent judgment. The biggest obstacle to the independent judiciary, unfortunately, is the President's mindset, the only man in power, who sees justice as a shackles at his feet. That's what we've been saying for years. The president's mentality and rhetoric is the biggest obstacle to judicial independence. Mr. State Gardener's remarks are one of the biggest obstacles to independent justice. When they open their mouths, let the Constitutional Court be closed. When they open their mouths, they say, "We don't know, we don't respect." Now, when we talk on commissions from time to time, they say the European Court of Human Rights might not fit. Why don't we? Let them look at other countries. All right, let's let them look; let's not fit in, okay, let's just say that. There's no such thing as international law, but, you know, there are judges in our country who don't comply with the Constitutional Court's rights violations -- for example -- like Akin Gürlek. Despite HSK's Principle Decisions, they are being upgraded at incredible speeds, despite the Ministry's Principle Decisions. So the judiciary, okay, has a lot of problems, the problem of independence is the most important problem, but in the judiciary, we see judges who actually look someone in the eye and decide, especially when they look the President in the eye and decide very quickly. I was actually thinking I'd talk a little bit about the D.A. on the way over here. Little one, I looked at it, I looked at it. Friends, I say to fellow nationalists, especially the Party of Movement, that you are constantly angry at the judiciary, the European Court of Human Rights, but the judges who remove the Ataturk bump in the state's engagements and medals are the president of the State, or the president of the State who lifts it is rising quickly. Judges who decided to cancel the elections in the YSK have quickly risen to the higher courts, making their ballots valid in the referendum in 2017. Again, the Irfan Fidan thing... look, it's actually embarrassing. And how did the Supreme Court recognize a man who didn't lift a file cover, and how did they know he was worthy of the Supreme Court? I mean, there's no way to understand it, Minister, there's no way to understand it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0232par0282	He must have picked tea, Mr. Flood, tea, tea.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0231par0283	I mean, it can't be decided until there's a light from somewhere or a sign from somewhere, so it's come from somewhere, it's decided. So this is Irfan Fidan, and this is Zeki Yiğit, and this is Akin Gürlek. Our friends come here. The problem is a lot, but the real problem is the judges who will enforce these decisions. They are called judges who will enforce these laws. Well, that's the way it is with judges, and if you decide like that, you can only go up. I mean, justice acts like salt, meat smells like salt. What's salt? Salt justice. My dear friends, there is injustice in many parts of our country, at many points. There's no justice in education, there's no justice in income distribution, there's no justice in tax collection, there's no justice in retirement, there's no justice in faith, there's no equality in living, but we can solve all of this, we can solve all of this. As long as justice is independent so it doesn't have to be a back problem. If justice is independent, we can solve all these problems easily.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0233par0286	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0231par0287	Now, my friends, we talk about it all the time, and we talk about it on commissions from time to time. There's a problem with the judge and the prosecutor. Before, there was a problem with judges and prosecutors. I mean, being a member of more than 4,000 or more than 5,000 dominant terrorist organizations in the country, unprecedented anywhere in the world, has been removed from being a member of the judiciary because of it, some of them have gone to prison. At this point, we see that lawyers from the Justice and Development Party's district and county agencies have been hired as judges with very small interviews, very short interviews. As long as we continue like this, we can't have an independent judgment in Turkey, nor can we strengthen our country's guarantee of justice, nor can we guarantee the trust of 84 million people, no matter how many laws are presented to this Assembly under the name of reform. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0233par0290	In turn, it belongs to Istanbul MP Turan Aydoğan. Here you are, Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0234par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. The Bar Association made a choice on December 5th. It's so nice that I kiss your forehead, kiss your heart, give your colleagues a lesson in law, law. (Applause from CHP rows) We've been trying to tell you for months that we're going to tear up that law as a majority, not to jump the bar by playing with the law that was brought in 2010 as a project, the Turkish judiciary will teach you a lesson. You didn't listen, let it be a lesson, let it be a lesson, but when we come to this Parliament, we're going to tear up that law as a majority; we're going to make it a law that will be fair, legal, lawyers will breathe. December 10th, World Day of Human Rights... the irony of fate is that on World Human Rights Day, I came here as a speaker of lawlessness and injustice. We have come to talk about justice and human rights in a country where one of the two young people is unemployed, in a country where 14 million people work for minimum wage, in a country where the minimum wage is below the poverty line, in a country where 7.5 million people have to live on a third of the minimum wage, and in a country where there are more than 10 million unemployed. With who? The ones who created injustice. The irony is, those who create injustice look like justice distributors to us.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0235par0297	According to you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0234par0298	The main reason for injustice is the economic policies you put us through today. The main reason for injustice is economic infrastructure, poverty, unemployment, employment. You'll cause more injustice with the world you've created, Mr. Ministers, but you'll say: "E, brother, we didn't create this." Who created this? Did he create external forces in your place? You can take shelter. Look at this. You may take refuge in this, but I won't say anything, Mr. Ministers, but don't think that I'm just talking about something that's the problem of the Minister of Justice, the problem of all rulers. Article 106 of this Constitution states that the Council of Ministers and the Vice President are responsible to the President. Not against the people, not against the House, against the President. But you take responsibility as a commitment, but responsibility is also, pleasure, caution, caution. The President of this country treats the European Court of Human Rights as an institution of the European Union, which is related to the Council of Europe, and says: "The decisions of the European Union do not concern us." We understand, you love the European Union very much at some point, and now, you need to create a hatred for things that go wrong, but tell Mr. Minister, the European Court of Human Rights is a court related to the Council of Europe, and it has nothing to do with the European Union, and we are a founding member. Do not take responsibility for what you do not do or do. Mr. Ministers, you are the main cause of poverty, unemployment, injustice. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, with the grain you imported from abroad, you're sitting there with sunflowers hitting this country's agricultural world as well as locals and nationals? You are the foundation of poverty, you are the foundation of injustice. Mr. Secretary of Defense, while military school students are being persecuted inside, being put to bed for nothing, you are the cause of persecution while the children who go out on the street are being punished by their commanders for thirty years. Let me ask you something else, about Tank Palet -- I won't ask him about his legal status, we're way past that -- you were supposed to build an ALTAY tank in 2018, where was it? Where have the resources of this country been spent for four years, Mr. Secretary? At least get the model so we can get a picture of you here. In a world like this, those who have been given to the Şenyaş family and the KHK people who have been given to the Şenyaş family are also unlawful in all parts of Turkey, such as Ali Haydar Hakverı and our deputy, we visited an old parliamentary worker at theYepeleli, who has dementia, Alzaymir, can't manage himself, and is still lying in jail, Aysel Tuğluk. The hatred you feel for a people should not cause you to be persecuted by him. Yeah, what's that like, what's that like? You've been old, you know, dealing with a lot of people's law violations, and you're ignoring it?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0236par0306	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0234par0307	Yeah, in a country where there's a lot of lawlessness, I can't stop talking about justice. I'll just say that you are the foundation of persecution, and we will send you away, and this nation will breathe. There's no other way, there's not much we can tell you. I'm just going to tell you that the late Cemil Meric has a very beautiful saying: AKP rows, I'm telling you: it's dishonest to remain neutral where there is persecution, says the late Cemil Meric. I take it as a reference to myself, and I recommend it to everyone. Don't let anyone suffer the persecution because the court of conscience is vast, and when it comes to it, everyone must stand tall in front of that court. Friends in the ashtray, try to keep your heads up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please try to say "the decision we made together" instead of starting at the order of our President. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0237par0313	In turn, Istanbul MP Zeynel Emre. Here you go, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0238par0316	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, there's theft, corruption, corruption, corruption in the country, corruption in the tender. Who's going to fight them? Judgement will fight, won't it? We're looking at the Ministry of Justice reports of the Court of Justice; the Ministry of Justice is irregular in its own activities, has not kept the proper financial tables, has not opened them where he should have tendered for his work. So, in this case, who are we going to complain to? If the Justice Department behaves like this, how do other ministries, other institutions behave in this country? Dear friends, the Minister of Justice last month, a panel at Istanbul University says: "Young people, do not rent your minds." Isn't that a good word? I advise Mr. Secretary to say that word to the cabinet, to say it in the parliamentary group, to say it at the meeting with the judges. There are rangers, Hakwayists, who went to Turkey -- I'll give you a direct name. They have WhatsApp groups, they communicate in the elections; they have Supreme Court elections; they're in touch; they've gone, other sects have arrived. So let's say again that all of this is open to the influence of all growing cults and foreign intelligence services. In other words, I ask the Minister's understanding of justice again: Is it not a crime or is it not a crime under the Law of Dealing? In accordance with the Public Contraction Act, does a minister receive a tender in the ministry under his own direction? Does that constitute a conspiracy to corrupt the tender? Has there been any action on this? Two, there have been criminal charges filed regarding the bribes of $500,000 in this Antalya Serik. What action have you made? There's a confession in front of your cabinet's ministers, MPs, mayors. Third, will you take any of the officers who took pictures of you today with Fethullah Smiley? I don't think so, but why did you make the Cabinet Minister? Anyone object to that? So one of them is wrong, aren't they, fellas? The fourth question is, I'm speaking from the Justice Department's own data again, and I'm speaking from the statistics. A total of 8,955,000 Republican prosecutors have a number of investigations, an investigation. 47 percent of them are unsolved, and there's never been such a high rate in the history of the republic, so half of them are unsolved. The citizen is being robbed, he goes to trial, the perpetrator is unknown; he is being wronged, the perpetrator is unknown. Who's gonna follow this? The Ministry of Justice, the law enforcement department. Is there a Home Secretary walking on this? He's going after the MPs here, that's what he's supposed to be doing. Now, there's always been talk about the stock market, the stock market. You said "dream." You said "dream." You said "dream" when you were talking about it. The last case was filed by the İzmir Public Prosecutor's Office. Look at the stock exchange. I'm going to give you a name: I'll tell you why the former Izmir County Vice President was killed and why the AKP was killed. Police Commissioner Kudret Dikmen, Deputy Chief of Intelligence Agency, became police inspector, first-class chief of police, leader of the organized crime syndicate, Serkan Salman... do you know what they're doing? From 2016 -- there is in the file, in the file of the republic's prosecutor's office -- he gets the list of things to be processed by the intelligence officer, gives it to the AKP Deputy Mayor, and he transfers it to the mobster he knows. He's leaving, he's taking $100,000 from all those transactions, some of them buying Volvo cars, some of them taking pictures of them naked. They take the world's money, you pay for it, you're saved, and if you don't, they put you in custody. Look, it's all evidence, proof. Friends, it's not enough, but when it starts to come off as if it's a sock cut, when it's investigated, the leader of the organized crime syndicate runs abroad -- fashion, of course -- legally allowed, go...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0239par0322	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0238par0323	The other, the AKP Vice-President, I speak. He implied -- just as Süleyman Soylu said about the SBK -- that a murderer from Erzurum kills a man, kills him, kills him, doesn't talk. Now, dear friends, you know, the evidence, the evidence, how do you get more evidence? It's in the file, there's confessions, there's inconsistencies. In a country like this, can you bring judgment, justice? As long as this rotten system doesn't improve, the fish stinks all over again, dear friends, we can't fix anything. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0240par0327	Artvin MP Uður Bayraktutan is next in line. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0241par0330	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Today is an important day, on December 10, 2016, when we lost police officers and martyrs in the terrorist attack in Beşiktaş, and also the martyrs we lost in yesterday's terrorist attack, I say, "I wish the Turkish nation's head." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I was going to speak about the Ministry of National Defense, which is where we are, but I have to tell the Minister of Agriculture a thing or two. Today in this Parliament, Omar Fethi Gürer, one of the most hardworking members of this Parliament, is a very gentleman... You will accept a criticism mechanism, Mr. Secretary, and you will not insult you when you are criticized. Look, you've got the ministers with you, you've got the Minister of Justice; there's been criticism all morning, there's been the harshest criticism, but they've listened very respectfully as long as there's no insult. What you're saying will soon be seen in the transcripts. Don't lower a Ministry's bar, don't lower the Ministry's bar in this Parliament. Look, when a manager punches like a boxer, if they're holding a Home Secretary, if they're doing this sort of thing about the attack... I always say, this is the Parliament of Mustafa Kemal. (CHP turns to applause) You know the weight of the Ministry, respect the criticism. If you can't control your temper, don't come to this Parliament, my friends. Let me explain it to you first. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the basis of my speech today is Tank Palet. There's a problem with the tank pallet, we have to talk about it. The Tank Palet Factory is one of the five most important facilities in the world, a $20 billion facility, one of the top five facilities in Europe, a magnificent facility, one of the most important pride paintings in our defence industry. It's a facility that began in 1967, which continued with Operation Peace in 1974, where the Turkish community, which was affected by the American embargo, had put aside money and put their work into place. There's a problem with Tank Palette, what are my dear friends? I want to tell a short story in five minutes how one gets rich. My dear friends, you know Ethem Sandzak. Ethem Sandzak, a businessman, a successful businessman, a successful contractor...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0242par0339	Old lefty, old lefty!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0241par0340	... He says: I want to enter a field related to the defence industry. He goes to Erdogan. Erdogan says it's OK. He says it's OK. Take the BMC. They say it's relevant. You know, the BMC was confiscated by the TMSF from the Çukurova Group, and they're coming, not for half the price of 1.5 billion, but for half the price of BMC, for 751 million TL. With $750 million of that period's money -- let my fellow lawmakers at the AKP PARTY listen carefully -- $360 million worth of friends; there's a wonderful bargain, a wonderful trade involved. Then what does Ethem Sandzak do, this successful businessman? It says: "We have to change this, I can't succeed here. I must take with me a rich partner. The Qatars, who are almost blood related to you, think of them and connect with the Qatars, call you a Qatar partner. They call you Qatar, and share the Qatar army with BMC, Ethem Sandzak, my dear friends. The same Ethem Sandzak is selling half of the shares of the Tank Palet he bought for 360 million dollars to the Qatar army for $300 million. Look, after a month, $120 million makes an incredible profit, my dear friends, a great bargain, a great vision, a great intelligence. After a while, he sells half of his shares to Mr. Erdogan's neighbour, Rizeli Salim Ozturk. Another time passes, I have to do other work, I have to build tanks. How's he gonna make tanks? Despite the existence of a firm that's been working for seven years on the prototype of tank production, which is 100 percent domestic, and even though it's spent close to $1 billion in RD studies to produce that prototype, they kind of push them aside and say, "We gave you the contract." Who are they giving it to? My dear friends to Ethem Sandzak. What does Ethem Sandzak do after he gets it? He sees that things are going well -- it's what he's doing -- the stocks are going up, and the tank production is going up, and I'm going to deliver the tank in 18 months, and I'm finally going to hand it over to the Turkish Armed Forces, he says. The next thing we know, there's no tank delivery, nothing's been done. By the way, Ethem Sandzak had made $120 million in the first place... and then the stocks here are getting higher and higher, even though Ethem Sandzak was thirty-six months later -- which today is December 10th -- he's not delivering any tanks, and he's handing them over to another firm. What we're trying to say here is that over the course of time, stock prices are going up, over $400 million in Ethem Sandzak money, my dear friends. And then, you know what Ethem Sandzak says, it's very interesting? He's got good words here. Since I don't have much time for those words... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0243par0343	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0241par0344	He says: "I have a divine love for Mr. Erdogan. " My wonderful, wonderful, precious friends. What mortals, if you make $400 million in such a short amount of time, will not love another mortal, my dear friends? What kind of a score is this? What kind of a haul is this, my dear friends? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, in all foreign countries, in all foreign countries, in every country in the world, the defence industry is the virtue of a country, the virtue of a country. The integrity of a country cannot be pursued by another country's army, it cannot be pursued by another country's army. So we say, Tank Palet is a country, it can't be sold. Hopefully, in the coming period, when this political power and this wind change, we will make this country the land of hope and freedom, all of us Turkey, and we will seize the Tank Palete, we will return Tank Paleti to our people, and I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0244par0349	In turn, it belongs to Mr. Free Ceylan. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0245par0352	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the National Ministry of Defence. I salute the General Assembly. On this occasion, my condolences to the martyrs whom we buried yesterday, and to God's mercy, and to their grieving families, and to our nation. I'd like to start by referring to the tragic events of the Tank Palet Factory. It has been three years since the Tank Palette Factory was sequestered to the BMC, a large partner of Qatar, free of charge. What happened reminds me of a movie line. You remember one of the memorable lines of Vizontele. The boy calls to his father from the head of the car: "Father, there is no battery. Is the battery dead?" No father, there is no battery complete. Mr. Secretary, no engines, no transmissions; don't ask if the tank was stolen, there's no whole tank. (CHEERING) It's a joke! Is that enough? No. As you know, the factory was privatized to invest $50 million. Hold on tight; do you know how much the state has paid for the factory since September 2019? $40 million. Yeah, you didn't hear me wrong; the money we paid for 50 million dollars to buy goods and services for the factory that's being made in a row is $40 million. What a country! It's hard to keep a hat on the commercial mind of Ethem Sandzak. It's a pity what they've done to the country! Tragic events don't end like this, like a movie. One day, the Speaker of Parliament says it is technically possible to remove it. He opens the Montrö Convention to discuss it. In the middle of the night, military schools and Petty Officers' upper secondary schools have been declared uninvolved in non-involved activities. At the same time, there's a picture of an admiral in a robe of height in the press. A group of retired admirals, who are uncomfortable with these developments, make a statement: "These things are wrong. " Wow, is that you talking? My personal government and the Department of Defense are posting the case. Charge: attempted coup. They're all retired, so it's interesting how they're gonna do a coup. The indictment is empty, just as it was in the sledgehammer and Ergenekon. The Association of Retired Officers of Turkey has not condemned the admirals. The Ministry denies it. Wow, is that you talking? He's being appointed trustee to the association, it's really a joke. Pain is like a bad joke that can't stand democracy, freedom. Oh, and let's not forget the admiral in the robe, I asked the Ministry about the penalty situation: we retired with a decision on life. Do you think it's punishment or reward? I think it's a reward. Now, back to the story of the snake, the F-35 and the S-400. My personal government gets angry at the United States one day, goes to Russia, gets an S-400, spites it, but what's that? The U.S. is pulling us out of Project F-35. The billion-dollar loss of my own government is quick to turn around, lobbying firms and all that; it's futile. Give me the money, he says. No. So instead of bari, let's modernize the F-16. I don't have that either. We can't even plug in the S-400 just in case we save some money or a plane, it's just waiting. The damage is about $4 billion, but we're not losing touch with external forces, that's all that matters. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As all of this is happening, a statement from the founder of SADAT (such as a parallel army) came from the founder of SADAT (SADAT). I served for three years at military school interviews until the end of 2020. In the Minister of Eyes, we ask, we have no relationship with SADAT. He says, "It's like a bad joke again." Mr. Secretary, you may not have a relationship with SADAT, but it appears that SADAT is taking serious interest in our army. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, a gallon of milk exceeds 15 liras and 10 liras. There's no pot boiling in the kitchens. The country is being looted over Turkish lira, which the government has turned into stamps. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0246par0363	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0245par0364	When the public sees us, they ask if the Istanbul we conquered on horseback and with the sword comes with dollars on a camel's back and in his bag? (Applause from CHP rows) The people obviously don't read the book of the economy, they don't understand the events. [[!]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we'll be laughing. We saw our foreign minister in Qatar. His government was in Saudi Arabia. I'll tell you what, don't let our eyeballs get sold, let's call it "Aselsan, TAI, AVELSAN, ROKETSAN." In our power, we will take care of all these companies. We will ensure that our army will become the army of the people, as it has always been, and we will save it from being the place where cults and congregations roam. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, we will move forward and raise our entire homeland. Don't worry, my dear people, it's almost over; it's Erdogan, he's coming.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0247par0369	Mr. Ahmet Önal. Here you go, Mr. Önal.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0248par0372	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party group regarding the national Defense Department budget of 2022. First of all, I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. Starting with my words, my fellow Marine Sergeant Emre Ceylan, who was a martyr in the Battle of the Spring Shield, I give the blessing of our brother and all our martyrs, their families, our nation. Dear friends, Turkey is the world's most important strategic country, perhaps because its proximity to the world's most important oil reserves is connected to the three continents. In addition to this position, our country is also affected by the political crisis and turmoil of its neighbours, often becoming the center of migration waves. For all these reasons, our national security is crucial to both our country and our geography. It is also a necessity to protect the public property of national institutions, which are a guarantee of our homeland security. But what was done to our army's pupil, the Tank Palet Factory, was then explained how domestic and national you were, despite all our objections, the building and status of Machine Chemical factories, one of the founding elements of our national defense industry. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, look, I'd like to tell you a story about the MKE: the total number of applicants to the 300-person recruitment ads provided by the agency is 80,000. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you again, in front of our people, the questions I asked at the Commission meeting, but you haven't answered: what reason and reason has only a few thousand people been called to the written examination by the institution? I asked, you didn't explain. Why haven't the written test results been released yet? With the test results unaccounted for, who were interviewed, and according to what criteria were they put to work? I asked, you didn't answer. Although promised by the ruling party and its partners to buy new workers at the institution's Kırıkkale factories, this promise was not kept, I asked, and you did not answer. With these things you have done, and with the thousands of young men waiting for work, you have failed them, and you have exhausted the hope of our young ones. The contract of close to 1,400 dignitaries working at the institution ends at the end of December. What will happen to the subcontractors who work at the MEE from New Year's Eve? Minister, I asked, you didn't answer. Because of our tireless ambitions, thousands of people who worked in machine chemistry factories left the city with their families, and instead were not able to master new hires, and were confused with the illusion. You've been playing with the hopes of these people by saying, "Be a member of the AK PARTY first, and then come and apply." Only those who lived in Bırıkkale could not begin their work instead of the people who had gone away. I asked, and you did not explain why. I will continue to ask for the name of 278 thousand Broken Bears, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are our citizens. Look, what does our citizen say? Last year, the fertilizer, which was 3,000 liras a ton, went from $14,000 today to $14,000, 10 lira diesel, and the price of an oath bag went from $70 to 250. The farmer, the feeder, says I'm a terrorist. No one hears me. Last year's promised drought supports have still not been paid. For the first time this year, our farmer planted seed without fertilizer in the Cırıkkale. The promise of a postponement of debts has not been fulfilled again. Farm Bank on one side, Agriculture Loan Co-ops on the other. The farmer's interest debt is booming, the farmer cries out, no one hears. You're the only one in the country who's miserable. Look, in the last few months, the bread has been raised 50 cents. Electricity, natural gas, sunflower oil, flour, sugar, egg prices. Our citizen can't get along, Kırıkkale is shrinking; counties, villages are evacuating. We say, "Take heed." You don't hear. Despite all of this, those who need to come up with a solution to all of this say to our citizen, reduce your pressure, reduce your natural gas. People's minds are being mocked. Although the real picture is so dark, the representatives of the ruling party will soon appear, explaining how our country has grown up, how Germany has been jealous of us, how America has passed us in space technology, and how we will travel to the moon, and how the farmer, pension, and minimum wage are pleased.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0249par0381	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0248par0382	He's gonna blame us like he's been running an opposition party for 20 years. When you do all this, those who destroy the Tank Palette Factory, the machine chemical factories, will call themselves the nationals, but no matter what you do, you can't convince them anymore. My advice to you is to make an election decision quickly, take the country to the election, and do no more harm to the children of this country. You know very well that you'll lose, but while you're losing, I salute the General Assembly with our unemployed youth, our farmer, our pensioner, our tradesman, our minimum wage, our 84 million citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0249par0384	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in. Let's not challenge a tease.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0250par0386	I'd like to say, Mr. President, that we've heard the talks of the People's Republican Party. Turkey operates according to the separation of law, executive and judicial forces, and with the referendum held in 2017 the new government system is adopted; this is the result of national will. After all, our ministers will also respond to agricultural, defence-related, justice-related issues. In the future, hopefully, our friends will present their speech on behalf of our group, but let me tell you, we cannot accept the approach to discredit any of our government's institutions. There's no justice in our judgment or justice in any way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0249par0389	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0251par0391	Thank you. We're here to raise the glory and glory of the state, let alone disparage the state we've been avoiding as we've feared, but if it's a shame that some of the ministers are called to discredit the government when we face the wrongs that some government officials have done, then it's a shame. Explain the name of the politician who received $10,000 from the Mafia the day before yesterday. We say, "Don't discredit the city." Mr. Akbasoglu speaks in the same manner today; it would be helpful to be understood and listened carefully. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit03spe0252par0394	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, I'd like to invite you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0252par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account T) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Supreme Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY ACTIVITY OF TURKEY [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 EPISODE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0253par0052	My dear President, our precious deputies, we've just been inside together with our Omar Fethi MP. From time to time, with Parliament's blood pressure, there are words that are mutually transcendent. About that, we had a meeting with him inside, mutually legalized. We present it to the knowledge of our High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0252par0055	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0254par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. I always say politics is a matter of kindness and conscience, but politics is also a matter of debate and negotiation. Sometimes when we're negotiating here, the amount of discussion can get out of hand, and involuntary words can be exchanged. As the Minister has pointed out, Mr. Secretary, he himself has expressed the will of the state to knowingly insult and disrespect no MP in Parliament as Minister of the Government. Of course, it's mutual, so when a bad word starts from one place, it's just the same amount of reciprocity that makes this place nervous. I repeat, these things can happen, and I hope they don't happen after this, and while we're having these arguments, the opposition, of course, will criticize the government, the ruling party. I recommend that sheikh Edebali, especially to the ruling party, read his famous advice a little more and more often. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0255par0060	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0256par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yes, the House of Congress is all about the rules that bind us all together -- our MPs, our ministers. Together, we serve as constitutionals. In that sense, we refer to all negotiations as "yes" and, of course, "no" in exchange for all other bad words and wrong approaches. It's also a very good approach to mutual halalization. For all of us, the words of Sheikh Edebali should always be his bedside book, his bequest will. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0257par0064	My dear, Sheik Edebali has told power, and if he tells the opposition, we will never forget.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0256par0065	All together.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0257par0066	He told the authorities.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0256par0067	All together.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0257par0068	We'll read it every day when we're in power.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0258par0069	Yes, and I thank the Minister, Mr. Gürer. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account T) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Supreme Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY ACTIVITY OF TURKEY [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 EPISODE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account Now, let's begin the talks on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Adana MP Abdullah Right, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0259par0120	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022. I salute the General Assembly, your high council, and our beloved nation. Mr. President, the problems brought up by the pandemic and pandemic have opened the door to a new order in the world, bringing up the threats that have been ignored, but it has also brought up opportunities to build humanity's future in a healthier and urgent way. Turkey is among the countries that have survived this difficult process with minimal damage, thanks to its investments. The source of this success, as in all areas, is the conscious steps taken in the production field, a project that is a work of great effort and vision. Turkey is literally making history in the production area, which is the basis of development. We've had no problems with food supply because of the powerful infrastructure we've created in agriculture and forest sectors over the past 19 years and our projects over the past three and a half years, when many countries in the world closed the doors, when agricultural production came to a halt, when supply chains were deeply shaken. Although the world's problem of raw materials and the fields that we've been struggling with through natural disasters in our country are diverse, our password has never changed. We expressed every opportunity to support production and production as a way of building the mighty Turkey, and we continued to take steps in that direction. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the problems of the world, of course, affect us, too. However, because of our government's ability to predict and strong stance, problems are successfully overcome. If we take a look at our rising success graph, we'll have both established our ideas on a more solid basis and given the truth to our nation more clearly. We've provided 261 billion plant production supports to our manufacturers over the past 19 years. In 2017, we raised agricultural support of 12.9 billion to 25.8 billion by 100 per cent in 2022. In the last 19 years, we've paid a total of 4.5 billion for certified seed production. We are now exporting seeds to 86 countries. We've implemented 400 projects with 75 per cent seed grants to promote and increase production of drought-resistant species. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] In 2018, we raised total livestock support, 3.7 billion, to 7.9 billion in 2020, up 109 per cent in 2020. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We are in the fourth place in the first world in Europe. In the last three years, we've raised our agricultural-based degree-organized industrial districts from 27 to 50, and we've provided 450 million infrastructure loans. In rural development, we employed 465,000 people by supporting a total of 326 thousand projects. In the last three years, we've provided 6.5 billion support for 44,000 projects, providing 17,000 citizens with jobs. In terms of branding, again, there is a huge success, and between 2018-2021, 511 of our agricultural and food products were marked geographically. We have paid 156 million lira in support in the licensed storage area since 2018, so we have increased capacity 4.5 times. Again, agriculture and forest sectors in Turkey grew uninterrupted in the last 12 quarters. Turkey has exported $60 billion in exports over the past three years, giving $15 billion in foreign trade surpluses. In the fight against Mediterranean fruit flys, in order to prevent efficiency and quality loss, to develop reliable and controlled products, to create awareness in the sector and producers, to ensure sustainable production, from 2020-2022, the National Action Plan for the Three-year Mediterranean Fruit Fly against the National Action Plan, in line with our country. In addition, the Mediterranean Fruit Fly Project is being conducted in 45 counties to ensure traceability of the Mediterranean fruit fly. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as it turns out, the steps we take, the projects we bring to life, and the services we bring to our nation, are not meant to save the day; on the contrary, each service and every project is part of our goal to plan our bright future step by step. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0260par0133	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0259par0134	The EC PARTI governments, which introduce Turkey to national and service-oriented politics, shoulder to shoulder with its citizens, determine the success of each step by the degree of the citizen's satisfaction, will then continue with the same consciousness. I give thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the architect of Turkey's rise, who has moved our country from success to success, and who has allowed us to look to the future with confidence. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2022, I wish our central management budget to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0260par0138	In turn, it's in Çanırı MP Salim İkkintcioğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0261par0141	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the budget for 2022 of our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Dear lawmakers, global pandemics and economic fluctuations since 2020 have led all countries to reconsider their food policies. The rise in input costs for plant and animal production worldwide has begun to affect food production significantly. Since you must not temporarily consider the drought due to global warming and climate change, we activate our preparations and measures by means of drought commissions in our provinces to take more effective measures early in the day. In some areas, we see forest fires, extreme rains, floods and droughts in some areas. Natural disasters have once again demonstrated the importance of sustainable governance of these disasters. We share with our farmers the measures to protect soil and water resources from agricultural pollution, to protect land management, fertilizer management, animal fertilizer management and irrigation management. We have taken many measures to avoid the victims of this year's drought. Some of these measures, to tell you the truth, we've earmarked $2.6 billion in funding for the loss of our producers, between $30 and 100 lira per pound, and for our farmers affected by the drought. Drought support will be deposited into our farmers' account from the second week of December. We're saying good luck and good luck. We started selling barley and wheat at appropriate prices through TMO to reduce cost of flour and feed industry to our feeder, our milk manufacturer. With plant production development projects, we've provided 75% grants of seeds and saplings. In 2019, we began implementing one of our external projects, the Rural Displaced Field Development Project. The two stages of this project serve the Eastern Mediterranean Rural Development Area and the Western Black Sea Rural Development Zone. We're trying to do everything we can to increase plant production in our country, increase efficiency and quality, contribute to production costs, maintain sustainability, protect and protect our farmer under increased input costs. In 2017, we increase the amount of agricultural support, which is $12.9 billion, to $25.8 billion in 2022. We raise fertilizer support for 2020, which is $16 per square foot, to 20 lira in 2021, and $32 for the 2022 production season. Again, in 2020, we raise fertilizer support, which is $4 per square inch, to $8 in 2021, and $16 for the 2022 production season. In 2020, we raise the certified seed support in the grain group from $16 to $24 per squared for the 2022 production season. We continue to support rural development from four branches. With zero interest practices for the livestock industry, we've given our 1.7 million growers a total of $42 billion free loan. Water has become the most strategic and valuable resource of this century. In the last 19 years, we've invested 284 billion dollars in water today's figures, and we've acquired 8.865 facilities for our country. (EA/DG) We've made important decisions about water products both with our growers and hunting, and we've started to see positive results. Our basic approach to water products hunting is to manage our natural resources as an inheritance that we can leave to the future by maintaining the balance of protection and use. Besides, we've managed to reassemble 1.6 million hectares of land. Our country has been a model country for the world in its successful work in forestry. In the last 19 years, we have increased our forest area by 2.1 million hectares to 22.9 million hectares. Along with all our work, we've narrowed down our involvement in forest fires from 40 minutes to 12 minutes. For the past 19 years, we've come an important road in our policies towards agricultural production, our support for our producers, our product-buying policies, investments in watering, gathering efforts, modern irrigation supports and plant production.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0262par0147	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0261par0148	We also take measures to make necessary sanctions for businesses who are making an unexplainable price increase in income costs and incursion in everyday life, making opportunistics, emptying shelves, storing food. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers have ended my remarks here, while our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's 2022 Year Budget Law bid has increased by 25.5 per cent from the previous year to $66.6 billion. I say our budget is the budget of our country's farmer, producer's sweat and labor, and coming up, I salute the General Assembly by saying his name is Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0262par0151	Anthalya MP İbrahim Aydın is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0263par0154	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY group on the budget of the Director General of the Forest. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. The Forest General Directorate, where I have served for thirty years and have been honored to be a member, is a hundred and eighty-two-year-old organization responsible for providing our country's forest resources with sustainable management and providing resources to the benefit of our nation. Today, we are one of the few countries in the world that increase the presence of forests. According to the FAO report, our country ranked 46, which ranked as the world forest-building nation in 2015, to the 27th in 2020. Over the past 19 years, over 5 billion saplings have been met in 6 million hectares. As stated in the FAO report, we are ranked as number one in Europe and sixth in the world in the highest-forestationed rankings in Europe. Our goal is to plant plants as large as the world's population at the end of 2023, raising our forest existence to 23 million 400,000 hectares, 30 percent of our country's land. We're world leaders in the fight against erosion. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, with our understanding of the tree and the natural environment, were celebrated in 2021, in 2021, with 1 prime minister, 17 ministers and 50 ambassadors from 69 countries, with the participation of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In our 81 counties, about 700,000 citizens participated, 50 million,100,000 saplings were met with the soil in one day. As part of the Breathe into the Future, the Earth's Planting Project, the first of which, for each of our citizens, will begin from the burning forest areas, where 252 million saplings will be met with the soil by the end of the year. Dear lawmakers, we have built forests as the engine of rural development. The rural population's livelihoods have been diversified to benefit our national economy by implementing 38 different action plans, including walnuts, almonds, harnup, berries and so on, and wild olive rehabilitation. As of the 5,000 Forest Action Plan for 5,000 Villages to prevent migrations, to ensure that our forest villagers are fed, to live in a prosperous way where they were born, and to prevent migrations, there has so far been a kind of treeing of income-producing species in 5,420 villages. With our support for the beekeeping, we were raised to the sixth ranking in the world. Dear lawmakers, you have kecin, you have guilt. There is great support for our animalism by planning to graze our forests by giving up your understanding. Our forest villagers will continue to receive OSCE loans. As in the whole world, one of the things that is more important every day in our country is, without a doubt, medical and aromatic plants. The research commission, which I chaired at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, was established and completed its work and presented its report. The latest arrangements will allow the establishment of facilities in forest areas for the purpose of medical and aromatic plant breeding and operating. In 2021, medical and aromatic plants contributed $7 billion to the country's economy and more than $1 billion to the forest peasant. We aim to enter the top 10 countries in the world by raising our exports to $5 billion, which are now around $1 billion. To move from the state forestry to the nation's forestry, forests and places of employment have been offered to the service of our citizens. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as of the end of 2022, the forest cadastro will be registered in the designated areas and will be completed in 2/B at the end of 2023. The technical and legal problems have been reduced, the trials that have been brought to trial have been severely reduced, and the forest has not been hostile to our villager. Mr. President, as part of the efforts to combat forest fires, we have managed manpower, land and air vehicles from one centre and made Turkey strong enough to help the surrounding countries in the fight against forest fires at any time. In the fight against forest fires, we became the leading country in our territory. In addition, we were able to draw the time to fight the early warning system we set up from 40 minutes to 12 minutes. For the first time in forest fires, the drone is being used. As you know, the negative effects of global warming and climate change are often felt even more strongly. In some places, the global climate change, which we face with extreme climate data such as extreme drought and heat in some places, has unfortunately caused some disasters in our country in 2021.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0264par0164	Go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0263par0165	On the Mediterranean and Aegean coasts, thousands of forests and rural areas along hundreds of miles [100 km] have had epic success, putting out the fire before it grew. Sadly, some fires have grown under the influence of the highest extreme temperatures, low humidity and strong winds for a hundred and forty years. I was born in Manavgat, where I was born to put out fires, and I served as a member of the Republic's largest forest fires in the history of the Republic. Our nation has been prevented from spreading their lives through heroic struggles, especially by mobilising the resources of all institutions and organizations, especially from our Forest General Directorate's fire-fighting worker to his officer, engineer to his general manager. With a sense of national defense, I ask the Lord God to have mercy on the 133 martyrs who sacrificed their lives while putting out forest fires with great determination and zeal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I thank our heroes, all of them, and I applaud every one of them, and I invite you, our esteemed deputies and our beloved nation, to applaud the heroes of the forest, who went fearlessly against the flames that grew up in the heat of the forest so that they wouldn't get hurt by the forest fires. I wish you all the best for our nation and our green country in the year 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0265par0170	Karaman MP Selman Oğuzhan Eser.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0266par0172	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. The DSI General Directorate, a leading organisation in managing and operating water resources in our country, has been a radical and efficient organisation that provides the development of our water and land resources within environmental sensitivity and sustainability, producing extremities, producing hydroelectric energy, spreading water agriculture and providing drinking water to municipalities and building dams. With the institution's work in particular in the last 19 years, the number of dams in our country has reached 927. The number of dams has reached 3,313. The number of dams, the drinking water and wastewater plant 390. The flood shelter has reached 10,246. The total cost of investments has increased to over 284 billion TL. Dear lawmakers, in the last 19 years, eight dams, 8 ponds, 10 irrigation facilities, the city's dehydration plant and the Jesus line were employed by the DSI in my hometown of Karaman. There are 1 dam, 2 ponds, 7 irrigation facilities in the construction phase. In addition, five dams, three ponds, four underground storage facilities, 10 irrigation facilities are in the process of projecting and planning. I'm just passing through the stream recovery and land collection work, hydropower plants that are being built and built. While it may seem simple to count, I must say that my city, which deserves the best of everything at the value of the day that it is made in terms of its size, has only been invested in DSI over $7 billion. Dear MPs, what happened to the Blue Tunnel? I'd like to talk about a big project that is simply asked in three words, which concerns our region closely. Is the Blue Tunnel a tunnel, a canal or a dam? Imagine three dams in the valleys of the Toros. Of course, to think about it, you have to do it first, to get here, to get there, you need roads, bridges, viaducts, tunnels. Those who can't think about all this call us "the road is not fed; you are a tenderist." I'm afraid there was no road in this country when we set out to do these things. Yes, the Blue Tunnel is the three dams, made of billions of dollars, built to connect these dams, with water tunnels 18km in diameter, 125km long from the blue regulator, the AHI Canal and the floodwater that will collect the flood and flood water from the canal. Think of the closed-circuit agricultural irrigation systems that have been completed on the project, building on the border of Karaman and Iconium and continuing projects, and constantly expanding closed irrigation systems, and what are their contribution to the country's economy. Imagine a dream, a dream, and now it's only a matter of time before it happens, an investment that will satisfy the need for water for the largest plain in Central Anatolia. Think of a leader who has the confidence and the horizon to make hundreds of such investments despite political obstacles, construction sites that the PKK has attacked, burning business machines, and beyond the horizon. Dear MPs, what was the need for those who weren't involved, for the country, for those who weren't concerned, to begin with? They say waste. Then what happened, as if they wanted it more than anyone else? You couldn't do it, we'll do it. They say, "When it's done, did you do it from your own pocket?" You've done the right thing. You've done the right thing. You've done the right thing. You've done the wrong thing. They say you've done the wrong thing. Let them say you're in. All of this was not made out of nothing all these years until we did it? If there was, why wasn't it done? (ARK PARTI) Whatever is being done for the good of the country is being blocked by this mentality before the AK PARTI, the name of the service to the nation which is no longer able to be stopped by the speech of the same mentality today, if it is to defend the country's national interests.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0267par0178	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0266par0179	While nuclear power plants, hydroelectrics, thermal power plants and dams are being built, Turkey will be strengthened with those who stand up against all of this by environmentalizing the country's so-called natural disasters, knowing that billions of dollars of foreign trade deficits have been issued due to the country's energy needs? With the crew without captains, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, all he cares about is this ship walking in this storm? With such shallow understanding, we come with this reactionary mentality. Our nation will surely see those who say, "I pray that the budget brings good," and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0267par0181	It's time for the Silver House MP, Jahan Pektaş. Here you are, Mr. Jahan.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0268par0184	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Turkish Water Institute, and I salute you. It's possible for life to survive with water, if there's water, there's life. Because of the global climate change caused by human influence over the past 200 years, water supplies have begun to decline, so the importance of water has increased. By our geographical position as Turkey, we are a country under water stress, not water-rich. Our precipitation regime is different from the seasons and regions of the Earth's shapes and the sea's influence. We have a obligation to store water in the rainy season to use during dry season. In particular, the best examples of new dam types have been built in our country in recent years. Our technical capacity for building water structures has been carefully monitored on international platforms related to water, particularly the council of large dams. In 2009, five of the Water Forum, held every three years, took place in Istanbul, where more than 30,000 experts from 192 countries participated. The forum was greatly appreciated by the world, particularly the friendly and sister countries, for the successful passing of the Forum, and the fact that our country's work was seen by participants. Many countries have started to have requests for water projects, not only for technical and information, but also for counseling and contractor services. Today, large water projects in many countries around the world include the signatures of Turkish engineers and contractors. At the coming point, the Turkish Water Institute was formed as an international think tank to implement our country's experience and vision. SUEN was established on 2 November 2011 to contribute to the solution of global water issues, to contribute with new ideas and scientific models to the creation of our country's sustainable water policies, to organise national and international meetings and educational programmes and to represent our country on international platforms. Dear lawmakers, in our globalized world, water matters exceed borders. Hence, it is not possible to ignore the world's developments. Turkey has become the leader of water in its region, thanks to its major projects in the water area, its well-developed human resources and vast accumulation of information. Turkey's Water Institute closely monitors work on water in our country and the world with its expert staff, contributes to strategic planning on water issues, and consults decision-makers with models and scenarios for the future. One of the important tasks of an institute is, of course, educational activities. Since its establishment, SUEN has organised training and capacity development programmes for more than 1,500 water and waste water experts from more than 30 continents, not just from our country, but from three continents. These include training programmes for Africa, one of our country's most important geography. In the past, our country has remained only observer status in water-field meetings, while today it has become a sovereign country that actively participates in international meetings. SUEN, representing our country, is involved in many international events in the water area, taking administrative positions and running water diplomacy. Many international organisations, primarily the United Nations and the Islamic Co-operation Agency, are co-operating on water management and technology. For example, in the Middle East, the Co-ordination of the Blue Peace Initiative is carried out by SUEN, which has been established under the Islamic Co-operation Agency to resolve water issues in Islamic geography and the purpose for water to be a means of peace. SUEN is not limited to international work alone. Scientific publications about our water resources are being conducted, and studies are being conducted with universities to model underground and above-ground water sources. In addition, technical counseling is provided for water and sewage management throughout our country.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0269par0191	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0268par0192	The Turkish Water Institute, which will pave the way for the development of our country's water policy and strategies in the world to become a leading country, wishes the budget of the Water Institute to be good, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0269par0194	Afyonkarahisar MP Ali Özkaya. Here you go, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0197	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our esteemed MPs and our beloved nation, the AK PARTY Group. I salute the High Council and our nation. First, I begin by asking for God's mercy on our martyrs. I made a promise to talk about the five judicial packages we've made in the last two years. But I'm going to put aside this text, which I've technically drawn up in the face of some very serious accusations from our CHP Group MP friends, and I'd like to give a few answers. My beloved lawmakers and my beloved nation, there is a saying attributed to the former ruler of Sasani Persis, Erdeşir: states and governments stand by with soldiers, with goods and economy; goods and economics are made up of the welfare and development of countries; justice, as much as bread, as water, is essential for all of us, and the country's survival is essential to all of us. However, this justice is valuable when you're on every side and every side, if you say it differently when you're in power, differently when you're in opposition, then your reputation and credibility will be damaged. I started internship at the Ankara Bar in 1992, and until I was elected MP from then on, we were involved in many long and very different cases. Our friend, who was the first in Turkey with 81 points in the 1993 judge-laws exam, was not taken to the judge, but our classmate objected with 37 points -- it was classical at the time -- was completed to 70, and he dominated. You can look at the next official newspapers, then the district heads of CHP have been tested without interview by many of the district managers. Those who were the 1st in Turkey, those who finished Ankara Law with the 1st placement, then had a judge's scholarship, and those who studied on a judge's scholarship were not made judges simply because they had an imam-hakip degree. They lost the exams, I filed their case on their behalf. Do you know what the court said? The examinations are not subject to judicial supervision, he said. When the same Court of Appeal comes to power, the examinations are subject to judicial supervision. That's not enough, you have to put a camera on it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0271par0202	Camera, camera.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0203	Put it on the camera. He said. That's the double standards we've had, that's all that's happened. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Then came the members of the court, whose name was high in Yassiada, whose name was unknown, with Law 44, and became members of the Constitutional Court, and four of them became presidents. The CHP's General Centre lawyer has been a member of the Constitutional Court and the head of the Constitutional Court of People who have been in CHP for many years. You guys love these. You talk about the neutrality of the Bar Association. You like the presidents of the Bars elected at CHP headquarters. And they love those who have martyred our prosecutor, martyred our Minister of Justice, martyred our commanders, sang the anthem of the DHKP-C.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0272par0208	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0209	All the presidents of the Ankara Bar in the last thirty-forty years have been MPs from CHP, he has been mayor, he has been mayor, he has been mayor, you love them, you love them very, very much.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0272par0210	What's that got to do with anything? You've ruled this country's judgment, but you'll still continue.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0273par0211	Hey, shut up and listen.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0212	Look, I'm the new Supreme Court of Appeal 16. The criminal department has made its decision with the judges of Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer case. Look at the record numbers of those judges, the majority of those judges were taken by your ministers, they were tried with their records, and I explained them.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0274par0213	You threw out 5,000 people, judge, prosecutor.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0214	The question is, which of them was taken to our Minister of Justice during Seyfi Oktay and Mehmet Moğultay?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0274par0215	You threw out 5,000 people.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0275par0216	How many thousands of judges... shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0217	You know that very well. Wasn't Mehmet Moğultay the one who said, "Should I give it to Refaha or to the MPP? I gave it to the organization 7,000 people." You like these.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0275par0219	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0220	We know exactly who you like. You want the decisions of the ECHR to be implemented, you don't say a word about the decision of the Muslim minority in West Thrace.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0276par0221	You threw out 5,000 judge prosecutors in one night!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0275par0222	You're talking about 40 years ago! You answer to the judges, you answer to them! Answer the members of the Supreme Court! You're not ashamed, are you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0223	It is everyone's duty to abide by the judgment, and we will obey the judgment. Satellite then courts, satellite two days later.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0275par0224	You're the mufti! All of you, mufter!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0225	Yes, Mr. Turan, you'll see a lot. We've come through all this.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0275par0226	All of you, mufter! Find one CHP judge DHKP-C. If you can't find one, you're a mufter, you're a mufter!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0227	Don't shout! Those who sing the song of the DHKP-CH, you defend them, and we know them very well. You love those who defend CHP's problems, not the problems of the profession.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0275par0228	Your Home Secretary did the same thing.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0270par0229	Friends, justice is precious to all of us. Please, when there's a crime, report it to the prosecutor's office, execute the prosecution, but don't blame the judge for the politics.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0275par0231	Your minister will find 557 terrorists in the IBB.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0277par0232	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0278par0233	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0279par0234	Look, the last time we passed a law, except in the interim, we scored 70 points on the judge's exam. We've brought a test of entrances to the judge's office, the prosecution's office, and the practice of attorney's office. The main problem of Turkey and the world is professional quality. If we create our judge, our prosecutor, Mecklella, as stated in his statement, the judge, the temple, the conquest, the text, we will contribute more to this country, to this nation. Both our Minister and our Justice Department are working very hard on it. I hope that our new budget will be good and that we will continue to raise judges who will truly deliver justice to our country. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0280par0239	It's time for the Tokat MP Mustafa Arslan. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0281par0242	Isn't that when it's all over, when the AK PARTY group talks are over? Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0282par0243	5,000 judges, prosecutors were thrown out in one night; did CHP get 5,000 judges, prosecutors? 5,000 judges, prosecutors thrown out in one night, 5,000 people in one night. The CHP took 5,000 people?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0283par0244	We're gonna need to account for those allegations.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0284par0245	Yes, CHP took it, Mehmet Moğultay told me, in two years.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0282par0246	5,000 people?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0284par0247	2,000 judges, 5,000 officers.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0282par0248	I know those records, too. I've only got one. I was here that night, that night, the night of July 15th. Pity!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0285par0249	The Home Secretary will find 557 terrorists.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0286par0250	Congressmans, we have a congressman right now. He can't talk, folks. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0285par0252	Mr. President, this Parliament does not protect the mufter. He's going to find the CHP guy from DHKP-CL; they're going to give him a name, a name.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0287par0253	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the Justice Department budget. I hereby salute the General Assembly, our ministers, and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Starting with my words, three of our heroes, Ali Sarı, Doğanay Çelik, İdris Aksöz, who were killed in the attack of a traitorous terrorist organization in Operation Claw Lightning, ask Allah's mercy on their families and loved ones. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Five years ago, on December 10, 2016, on the Day of Human Rights, I am congratulating 45 members of the police who were killed by the rogue terrorist group of the PKK in the bomb attack in Beşiktas. On Human Rights Day, I curse once again the traitorous attack on the lives of our people and the separatist terrorist organization that carried it out. On December 10, 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which began today as Human Rights Day. The declaration clearly states that all humans have the right to live equal, free and honorable lives because they are only human beings, regardless of any distinction. As children of a civilization that established human rights a thousand and four hundred years ago in the Veda Hutbesi, it's clear that we have spent all history on human rights. The protection of rights and freedoms guaranteed in our constitution is essential to our democracy. We've done a lot of reforms on the basis of human rights in 19 years, with an understanding that built and lived the state on justice. The possibility of individual application to the Constitutional Court, the constitutional protection of child rights for the first time, the constitutional security of the right to information, the establishment of regulations to make it difficult for the protection of personal data as a constitutional right to end the trial of civilians in military courts, for the purposes of critique in both local and general elections, as well as for the establishment of information in our criminal legislation, has made an important amendments to the freedom of expression, the establishment of public audit and the establishment of the Turkish Human Rights and Equality Agency, and the establishment of human rights and the establishment of arrest measures. Mr. President, we have continued our reforms in our justice system in the 27th term, with five judicial packages from which we have been referred to as Judicial Reform Strategy Document and Human Rights Action Plan, shared by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We've made serious changes to the criminal trial by a strengthening approach that protects rights and freedoms in the first judicial package legalized by our parliament. In our legal system, we've earned a series of trials and simple judicial procedures. While making arrangements for the execution system with the second package, the third package introduced simplifying and accelerant innovations in private law. With the fourth package ofjudgment, we've provided our legal system with innovations that reveal our victim-oriented sense of justice and arrangements for the purity of innocence. We've recently passed the fifth judicial package that we've passed, and we've implemented radical changes to our system of execution and bankruptcy, and to the delivery of children. We've made a amendment to 52 laws and 258 articles with the laws we've passed in our parliament. Thus, we have fulfilled 62% of the goals revealed in the Judiciary Reform Strategy Document, 35 percent of the changes targeted in the Human Rights Action Plan. The reduction of the trial period, the arrangements for the immediate resolution of discrepancies, have yielded positive results. Circumstances will be made reasonable by the establishment and the new residency courts, and again, the burden has been reduced on the courts and on the institutions of reconciliation and mediation. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as it has been for 19 years, we will continue to continue our reforms with judicial packages and administration, which will protect rights and freedoms and improve the quality of judicial and justice services.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0288par0262	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0287par0263	With these thoughts, I wish our Ministry of Justice and all of our institutions to have the best budget of 2022, with respect to the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0288par0265	It belongs to Mr. Sabri Ozturk, the MP of Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0289par0268	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Supreme Court budget. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. First of all, I'm celebrating World Rights Day on December 10th. We wish all humans to live in peace and peace, to end human rights violations, wars, persecutions all over the world. Today, the most basic duty of the legal state is to protect human rights, to maintain justice; justice is provided with the most efficient independent and impartial system of justice, the fastest, the most just way to look for rights. Our government and Parliament have made many reforms for a stronger legal system, a stronger democracy, broader freedoms. The Judicial Reform Strategy Document, which Mr. President announced to the public in 2019, has brought innovations in many areas. So far, five judicial packages have been legalized -- our valued lawmakers have just expressed in these packages -- serious changes in criminal reasoning with an approach that protects rights and freedoms have been made, extensive studies on the execution system, simplifying and accelerant innovations in private law. Again, finally, there have been radical changes in executive law for electronic sales and delivery of the child. With recent changes made in CMK, opportunities have been brought to strengthen the right not to be tainted. The regulation has ruled that there is no room for investigation, which has been investigated over 472,000 of our alleged citizens so far. Thus, the honor of more than 472,000 citizens has been preserved in the face of baseless allegations. In addition, the series of prosecutions brought into the criminal justice system and the simple process of trial appear to have been concluded very quickly. Thus, in cases where serial reasoning takes an average of one year and seven months to be finalized in the average classical trial, the files have been finalized in two weeks. Again, 84.5 per cent of the files discussed with the plea-responsibility institution resulted in compromise. The National Judicial Network, whose short name is UYAP, is adopted by the Information System, has accelerated judicial processes in our country, increased processing security and eased access to justice. With the ease of UYAP, the number of users, software coverage and capacity has become a world-class model e-justice system, and has received some really good awards. Again, the session program, such as UYAP, and the e-contribution system, are successfully implemented by our lawyers. All courts aim to promote the e-official system by the end of 2021. We also give thanks to our esteemed Minister and his entire delegation, who have made special efforts in this matter. Another study carried out under digital transformation is e-execution. In particular, this application was delivered to the receiver within seconds of November, and was sent to an estimated 85 million e-mails, thus saving more than $1 billion 135 million. More than 50,000 trees were saved from being cut down. Again, another successful implementation that was first implemented during our rule of the EC PARTY is also an intermediary institution. As of November 2021, 2 million 392, 342.1 million, 647,282. For example, in business courts, a file is being settled on average in two years, while the job discrepancies brought to the front of the mediators have been concluded on average in seven days. Late justice is not justice. Such thoughts have also been brought to life by the implementation of target time in the judiciary for the quickness of justice. In short, during our 19-year-old AK PARTY rule, we have reformed and continued to develop justice in the way our citizens deserve. Dear lawmakers, the Supreme Court's budget for 2022 is offered at 485 million, 217,000 liras, and it is very important that our judicial institutions work in the physical environments that suit them. In many of our counties, as well as beautiful courthouse buildings in our counties, our Supreme Court has received our new building as of September 1st. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0290par0278	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0289par0279	The new building of our Supreme Court has really been a worthy building for both our judicial community and our country, and I wish you the best. Meanwhile, the project of my constituency, Giresun Courthouse, has been completed. Hopefully, we'd like to get it into the investment program of 2022 and get it started. I wish our budget of 2022 to the best of our government, our nation, and our entire judicial community, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0290par0282	In turn, Balıkesir MP Adil Çelik. Here you are, Mr. Adil.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0291par0285	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on behalf of the Council of State's President's budget as part of the 2022 Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute our General Assembly and our beloved nation. Of course, right at the beginning of my speech, as part of Operation Claw and Lightning, three of our heroes were killed today, and I say, God rest their souls, our nation's heads. Again, today is December 10th Human Rights Day, as well as the subject of our conversation, which I'm also celebrating. Of course, human rights, democracy, law, freedom; they're all interconnected and interacting concepts. The most important elements of democratic systems are the rule of law and human rights, the protection and development of freedoms. In this sense, the strategy for judicial reform -- as the speakers before me stated -- was declared by our President in 2019, the Human Rights Action Plan in 2021. Both policy documents are prepared with a more democratic Turkey and a more independent perspective. With the participation of our Supreme Assembly, the five judicial packages have entered into force. As a lawyer with more than 30 years of professional life -- we've all discussed his details here, we've evaluated them, he's already approved the opposition, he's already approved most of them -- and I owe thanks to our Minister of Justice, our deputies, the ministers, and the interested organizations who contribute to all these reforms, especially to our President. It was founded in 1868 at the time of Sultan Abdulaziz, known as Shura-yi State, and was first established in the Constitution of 1924, and held its place among the higher judicial bodies in the Constitutions of 1961 and 1982. In this framework, the State's Office is a decision-making, consultation, and decision-making assistant to the administration's audit and executive authority through the judiciary. In this sense, it is a key guarantee of the principle of separation of forces and, of course, democracy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Unfortunately, because of the heavy workload, in order to regain the functioning of the high judicial system, which was forced to carry out its actual functions, you know, we brought in the compilation system by making a radical change in 2016. When we look back, what kind of picture did the adjudgment system put up in the administrative court and the State Department? The number of files brought to the State Department in 2016 has been reduced by 209,000 over the years and dropped by 75,000 in 2020. This year, on December 6, 2021, it was 80,898. Again, the number of troubled cases dropped from 267 in 2016 to 134,000 in 2020, friends, to a serious reduction in the workload. As of December 6, 2021, this number is 138 thousand. In the last two years, of course, while fighting this disease called a plague, administrative leave in public institutions, flexible working conditions have affected judicial activities, and therefore we can say that there has been a limited increase in last year's rate. As we look at the painting, it's possible to say that administrative reform has reached its goal. In time, it is now possible to say that by getting rid of the burden of heavy work on the State, it will reach its goal to carry out the trial within reasonable time and will work as its primary function as a court of law. It's still the judge, the prosecutor, the coroner, 609 judges, 926 administrative staff working, two-thirds of the staff are full, and one-third of the staff is empty, so it's a rough calculation. A total grant of $324m,369000 is requested for the State Department by the Central Management Budget Law of 2022. This figure brings up about 37 per cent from last year. The source of this is particularly high in new personnel and SGK bonus payments. The increase in capital costs allowance is also due to the grant for the construction of the State Department educational facility.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0292par0295	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0291par0296	Again, there is a slight increase in gas, fuel, service purchases, pensioners and family health costs. In short, 86 per cent of the Court's budget is the payment of personnel and Social Security. The Court manages its budget for effective, economic and efficient use of public resources with the principles of fiscal transparency, accountability, which are stated in the Law on Financial Management and Control, 5018, and does not make any spending that can be considered wasteful except for the purpose of operating. On this occasion, he deeply believes that the truly solid and rational data will be approved by our House of State, to the members of the State, to his employees, to our beloved nation, and I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0293par0300	Afyonkarahisar MP İbrahim Yudunüsveven. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0294par0303	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of 2022 of the Department of Justice and the Department of Corrections and the Employment of Prisons. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who has been watching us at the beginning of its screens, giving us the authority to budget for the 20th time. It's December 10th Human Rights Day. On this occasion, as a member of the Human Rights Commission of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, I call upon all the world's oppressed nations to be saved, to rule the world of unity, unity and brotherhood. A total of 71,477 staff are employed by staff members of the General Directorate of Punishment and Inquisitorships of our Ministry of Justice, who are employed by the rural institutions of 42,313. As of December 2021, 385 execution institutions in our country contain 295,490 prisoners and prisoners. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been inaugurated by the completion of the construction of 261 new criminal execution institutions in accordance with the norms of the European Union since 2002. At the same time, 372 criminal execution institutions, which are not fit for the execution regime, consisting of very old structures and lack of physical capacity, have been shut down. The physical conditions of our institutions have been improved as part of our current execution institutions' electricity, water, natural gas, plumbing, roof and general renovations. Again, everyone knows that the prisons, which witnessed executions and inmate riots, were transformed into museums during the AK PARTI period, where the years of the coup took place. From here, if you'd like to see and know our prisons before 2002, I'd like to invite all our deputies and all our people to visit the Ulucan Prison Museum. Prisoners and prisoners' interests are being prepared according to a calorie requirement set by the Ministry of Health. As of March 2021, 15 per cent has been increased for convicted and imprisoned and incumbent personnel, and 28% for convicted, imprisoned children, children who remain with their mother in the institution, convicted breast-feeding mothers and pregnant mothers. In institutions that operate as a closed execution institution, the child's prisoners and prisoners have been established and ready to be used in order to ensure that their family ties remain intact and that they are spiritually comfortable. Phone calls used as ten minutes before the pandemic were raised to 20 minutes during this period. Any medication, examination, examination, analysis, analysis and medical supplies that are needed during treatments of inmates and prisoners are provided by our Ministry of Medicine. In addition, the Ministry provides hygiene supplies for those who lack financial resources from prisoners and prisoners. As a result, a dynamic working model has been created in institutions to prevent possible Covid-19 positive cases, an effective, rapid and co-directive study of methods to be observed in case of positive or positive cases. Mr. President, our ministry, which tolerates human rights violations within the framework of the zero tolerance policy of torture, has made all legal changes in order to eliminate the allegations and establish all judicial, administrative and civilian monitoring mechanisms. We've been to 14 prisons together with the Criminal and Prisoner Rights Subcommittee, where I'm the president of our parliament, all of our political party MPs. In these investigations, I would like to stress that there has been no systematic violence, no complaints about it. I also witnessed the disintegration of terror-related criminals in prison. As the EC PARTY, from the day we came to power, we have made major changes in the penal system and major reforms. At the point that comes today, one of the complementary elements that accelerate the process of change and development is undoubtedly the projects. For this purpose, the institution has implemented and continued its work on the ACEP Biometric Signing System, the Renewable Energy and Saving Project in BIOSIS and Prisons. Mr. President, the purpose of the execution system is not only to restrict the freedom of criminals, but also to bring them to society. The Office of the Employment Institution is a special budgeted, Justice Department organisation founded in 1997 to protect and improve the profession and arts of prisoners or to study a profession and art. In this regard, providing vocational training for prisoners and prisoners also meets the investment and current needs of the Ministry of Justice's central and rural organisations.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0295par0313	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0294par0314	As of November 2021, 27,978 prisoners and prisoners have been given vocational training as of 27,978 prisoners in the office of 336 job managers, from food textiles, agriculture and livestock to furniture, silver processing to construction branch. From the beginning of the outbreak, 32 workhouse managers have assembled about 67 million masks, some 500,000 overalls and disposable hospital products, 16 million Spanç Katming and 1 workhouse managership. In 2020, 437 million and 131,000 TL profit was made, including 5 courthouses, 14 execution institutions, and 6 workhouse production facilities. Mr. President, I would like to thank Mr. President Abdulhamit Gul Bey and all our Justice Minister and all the lawmakers who have worked in the budget, especially our members of the Ministry of Justice, especially our brothers, who are an execution guard, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0296par0318	It is in the office of Vildan Yilmaz Gürel. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0297par0320	Mr. President, I salute you all with respect and conversation on behalf of my group, the esteemed lawmakers, our beloved nation on the screen. First of all, I praise God, who gives divine justice. Then, because of my faith, I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our president, our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, as I believe today, has led us to the legal order that I am able to live in, and the representative of the law is determined to be the deputy of the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The 16th century scholar Ali, who is a criterionist of justice, states that when he lives together, the state is essential; but to be a state, he needs property; to feed soldiers and soldiers for property, he needs justice; and justice is the foundation of justice. Thus, property can continue in a fair, fair state, and justice is required as property continues. At the core of our basic rules that we're trying to establish in our justice institutions is the influence of the Turkish Islamic law that we're referring to from our past. We've done hundreds of studies to build a system that makes equality, rights, and rights between people, that strengthens the well-being and order of society, order and co-existence. The National Judicial Network Information System (UYAP), the Judicial Reform Strategy and the Human Rights Action Plan included five judicial packages; alternative solutions compromise and mediation, SEGBIS, e-responsibility, e-review are just some of our important gains. Thankfully, our nation has been aware of the work that for 19 years, it has relied on our actions of justice and development. Dear friends, the moral purity is the basis of justice that is required by law. Men of purity and glory do not seek justice in the ways of the mountains and in the mountains. People of purity and glory do not seek justice in the mountains. I repeat and seek justice. Those who say justice is on the streets. Those who do not leave stone upon stone; those who shed crocodile tears after martyr Mehmet Selim Kiraz and celebrate in the bar elections with the march of the perpetrators and the mujabs; those who say, "I march righteously; those who take the law underfoot; those who run to the door of the Constitutional Court with the souffs of fossilized intellectuals; those who say, "Is this the idea of justice that you have seen in the streets of the PKK without any condition?" It's a shame, it's a shame. They're still court-martials that understand justice, but they're not allowed anymore. In 2002, nothing will ever be the same. We said, "We have raised justice against injustice, injustice, and any legality of the custody regime." On the one hand, we've made legal reforms on protecting rights and freedoms, and on the other hand, we've eliminated evil characters who took over the rule of justice after July 15th and destroyed innocent people's lives with false evidence. Those convicted of acts of terror, we will steal honey from their mouths, and we will return those who have been laid off by the PKK. We are well known for their rhetoric, not populist politics, because our understanding of justice is Hazreti Omar's justice. With that understanding, we have focused on the professional competencies of all judicial and law enforcement members so that services can be served in a fair, reliable, effective, and reasonable time. This is one of our special institutions that we have established the Turkish Academy of Justice, which has established the Constitution, the Law and the Law, the Law and the Law and the Law, which have given everyone what is rightfully theirs; who follows the rules of professional ethics; who is neutral, independent, understands the national and spiritual values of society; who raises judges and prosecutors in its state and nation. The Academy, which points out to judges and prosecutors in scientific and cultural fields including foreign languages, has co-operated with foreign institutions and organisations, such as the Council of Europe, the European Union. Dear friends, today justice is needed most worldwide.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0298par0327	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0297par0328	With that dignity, I can't help but mention it. In this age of mercy, we have the duty of our civilization to be the voice of conscience, the representative of justice. A more just world is possible. We must not submit the world to the ambitions, interests, and whims of these five countries by accepting a new understanding that will build global justice, peace, and stability. We need to put a stop to global politics in the issues of global injustice, refugee crisis, international terrorism and anti-Islamicism. Recklessness against Palestinians, Syria, Iraq, Ukraine and many incidents shows that the existing structure cannot come up with a solution with justice. Justice, peace, trust is the right of all men. Human conscience can't find peace as long as the blood flows for dirty political accounts. Finally, I'm saying that for a fairer world, there's a need for a global order that gives hope and trust. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0298par0331	Chorum MP Oğuzhan Kaya is next. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0299par0334	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2022 of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, watching us at the beginning of their screens, from the stand of our Veteran Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For the sake of division, people, I remember with mercy and gratitude our heroes, who were martyrs in Operation Claw and Lightning, so that the state may remain forever. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Council of Judges and Prosecutors is a guarantee of fair, independent, impartial, reliable and effective judgment. Four members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors are elected by our President with more than 50 per cent of our nation, and seven members are elected by our Veterans Assembly, the centre of the nation's will. Thus, the Council of Judges and Prosecutors fully represents the will of the nation, while the independent courts judge and judge, and judge and prosecutors carry out the proceedings concerning judges and prosecutors to establish a fair trial with the full representation of the people's will, while the HSK judges and prosecutors do so on the basis of guarantees of judicial and prosecution procedures. On March 11, 2019, the HSK announced its declaration of Turkish Judiciary Ethics to ensure the rule of law, independence and neutrality of the courts. As part of the Turkish Judicial Ethics Declaration, he has prepared a guide to social media use. In addition, the HSK puts a great deal of emphasis on residency in the process of trial, leading to the establishment of specialist courts. In this scope, financial, trade union, development, electronic money and institutions have been set up, and specialise in tax and IT crimes. Specialist courts have been appointed because crimes committed in the 1632 Military Penal Code of 22/05/1930 and cases related to financing terrorism require expertise. Measure courts have been established as part of the domestic violence fight, and domestic violence offices in the republic's chief prosecutors have been widespread. The HSK has also reached new regulations and criteria in the promotions of judges and prosecutors. The Court of Human Rights and Constitution has added that judges and prosecutors have made violation decisions in the European Court of Human Rights and Constitution, the quality and weight of their violations, as a criteria for promotional efforts to protect the rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution. Objective performance criteria, such as promotions and audits by judges and prosecutors, compliance with target time, adequate grounds and decision accuracy, have been introduced. The HSK has established the active office of the judiciary, which conducts its duties as a monitoring and analysis through the IYAP of the rate of compliance with target times. According to the protection of personal data, the Board of Judges and Prosecutors 2nd Council. Some of the disciplinary decisions his office has made regarding judges and prosecutors are published on this side from 2012 through the website. Also, the decisions that benefit from its current publication are published here. On the other hand, the general view of the courts who have tried for the nation is: by 2002, the number of judges and prosecutors increased by 144 per cent to 22.823. The number of prosecutors who have been discharged since July 15th has been 3,979. In 2002, the number of women judge and republican prosecutors, 1,847, increased by 350 per cent to 8.308 per cent. During the same period, the male judge increased the number of prosecutors by 94 per cent. Already, women among judges and prosecutors in Turkey have reached 46 per cent. The number of courts, which were 3,581 in the judiciary in 2002, was 6,836 today; the number of courts with 146 in the administrative court was increased to 207.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0300par0345	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0299par0346	In the past 19 years, the number of courts has increased by 89%. The number of district court courts has reached 15. The number of district administrative courts has reached 9. The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' budget of 2021 was 103 million 209,000 dollars, while this increased by 31 per cent to 135m 980,000 liras this year. I wish the financial budget of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors for 2022 to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our state, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0300par0349	In order to speak, the deputy of Kahramanmarash is Habibe Eçal. Here you go, Mr. Boogeyman.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0301par0352	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget talks of the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Equality. I salute you all. Besides, I wish our ministry's budgets were better. I've been doing politics under this saint's roof for three years. Today, I will address you with regret, contempt and shame: I strongly reject the use of the language of both deputy leader and leader-level women, men and parties, regardless of who they are, the increased dose of intelligence and morality, insults, blasphemy, insinuation, and body language under the roof of the Assembly or outside. The use of decent, clean and decent language is a human matter. Shoulder to shoulder, face-to-face politics, we have to be sure of the hands and language of all our friends. It's just as ugly when you're talking about women's rights and then you're silent in the face of decorum and behavior, and you're covered, and you're twisted, and you're normalized. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear Court, precious MPs, today is the World Human Rights Day of December 10th. Our country has gone through a very painful process of democratization. We've done important reforms since we came to power on the protection of human rights, on the development of human rights. We restructured the Human Rights Agency's powers as the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey by expanding them to cover the fight against discrimination. The Human Rights Action Plan, which included the Strategic Plan, covering 2019-2023, for better protection of basic rights and freedoms, is the main road map of the institution's activities on March 2, 2021. Dear lawmakers, we may have separate political opinions, separate beliefs, but we're all on the same ship about human rights and equality. Modern cruelty, which produces nothing but worthlessness, destroys cities with the most deadly tools, without saying soldier, civilian, old, and child; culture and civilization, hope, longing, love, and expectations, slaughtering a whole human race. Today, there were millions of people killed in Syria alone with chemical barrels and missiles. Who did all this? Whose work is this massacre? The policies of the so-called leaders of the civilized world have done nothing but lay the groundwork for the massacre. What did these states do but stall the oppressed, encourage the oppressors? How long will the world's conscience be silent? How many millions of people have to die, Muslims, homeless, to survive blindness, deafness, people who make big sentences about human rights? The same thing is happening in Afghanistan, Iraq, Egypt, East Turkistan, Yemen, Palestine, Gaza, Belarus. What is the crime of children who were killed with their pacifiers, sugar in their hands, and who washed up on the shores? What human rights are mentioned? Don't these people and children have any right to anything but death and terrible death?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0302par0357	I should ask you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0301par0358	You know him well enough to kill a child. We know very well how the Bedirhan babies were killed in his mother's lap. This nation has not forgotten the body of the Najmettin teacher you threw in Munzur Tea. You didn't even deserve the right death for this nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] He remained in the Western class, defending equality and freedom only in contracts and on paper.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0303par0361	Talk to your own group, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0304par0362	Do you have to decide where to look? So you can't decide where to look.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0303par0363	Is it you who decides?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0304par0364	You can't decide where to look.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0305par0365	And yet in this world, in a situation where our national being, our will, is overwhelmed, ignored, there is no real meaning to any value or ideology. Each opportunity to give us advice, to shake our fingers, to check out countries, organizations, organizations have been frustrated by our stand with the national unity.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0306par0367	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0305par0368	In our country, local collaborators, tongs, manda mentalitys, democracy beggars, even those who have veiled terrorism with their rights and their freedom speech, gave poor balances, unable to meet the expectations and accounts of their masters. Those who lie to the people they are responsible for in the name of justice have neither the right nor the power to seek rights. As our leader, as our President said, in a time of lost mercy, the responsibility of being a representative of justice, the voice of consciences has been reduced to us. I hereby wish the 2022 year budget to be a blessing. I salute man born, and man born, and man left man, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0307par0372	Tripoli MP Salih Cora...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0308par0374	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Justice Department and the Protection of Personal Data budget. I hereby greet and greet our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screen, allowing us to budget 20 times without interruption. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, for us, the budget is to distribute every tax collected with justice, every penny, the development and development of our country, to spend it for the peace and peace of our nation. As such, in every election that we enter, our budgets are made clear by our people, and our heads are turned white and high. Dear President, the precious MPs, the AK PARTI, have succeeded in building giant monuments, building major reforms, and solving many problems since the day it was founded, under the leadership of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Many of yesterday's problems are now forgotten. For the sake of our country's peace and the welfare of our nation, let's keep going. We'll continue to make many more investments and innovations. That's what our nation expects of us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is an undeniable fact that we have made significant distances today in the field of law and in the services of the court. Where we come from, it's satisfying, it's too unique to compare with the past, it gives us hope and confidence for the future. Turkey has now freed itself from the pressures and chaotic environment of the coup d'état system, respecting human rights, building a system based on the rule of law in a genuine sense. We've made human rights and freedom the focus of our reforms. Today, in this budget, we will not share the pride of moving courthouses trapped in the basement to new courthouse buildings; today, we will discuss the satisfying results that we have achieved in the services of the court, thanks to our reforms and great transformation. Remember, there were unsolved murders in this country, ritual killings. If you remember, there were laws in sexual assault crimes that forced the victim to marry the perpetrator. There were gangs that couldn't be broken. We've updated our laws in accordance with the circumstances of the age by making radical changes in that sense. With all the innovations we've brought into the justice system, we've established an active, fast and reassuring system. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to express in particular that in the past, there was a cumbersome judicial system. There were practices referred to as the court wall, which made the citizen miserable, which made him desperate. Continuous lawsuits with endless notifications and correspondence have now ended with target time. The density of the court halls with the UYAP (UYAP) and the e-chance has been removed. ▪ Late justice is not justice. We have always acted on it. Instead of a new trial system, we've now created friendly solution models that solve conflicts quickly, with a series of trial procedures, a simple trial procedure, a compromise model, and we've eased the workload of the judiciary on this occasion. Look, 1 million, 675,000 discrepancies have been solved, and over 1 million, 100,000 cases have been resolved in peaceful ways. Unfortunately, we've terminated a primitive procedure, such as years of execution and child delivery by police. Dear friends, what are these not reforms? We've also arranged for him to be detained at the terminal building during a time of his abduction at midnight at his house, at the hotel where he was staying, while he was traveling. The model of the establishment of a courthouse at the airport was to facilitate the challenges that took place at this minival. We've taken the purity of innocence to a more secure protection with the right not to be tainted. With this app, we have prevented 482,000 people from unfairly appearing before the prosecutor because of accusations and accusations that have no original lining. Dear friends, this has always been a human-focused approach. We know that man is sacred, and man's right is sacred, and man's service is the duty of politics.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0309par0384	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0308par0385	Dear friends, we've also established the Institute for Protection of Personal Data, an institution that will help the citizens avoid using personal data in this rapid digital transformation process, where every area of life is coordinated with data, controlled and controlled, and even managed by data, and this institution is signing important activities. It's making workshops to increase its institutional capacity, and it's making attempts to integrate into the international system. I hereby express my gratitude as a student to Dear Master Faruk Biler, who is head of this institution, and my satisfaction in giving a speech on his budget. With these feelings, I respectfully welcome the General Assembly, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the National Ministry of Defence and the Justice Department budgets that are being discussed today.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0309par0388	It's up to Bursa MP Refik Özen. Here you go, Mr. Caress.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0310par0391	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the national Defense Department budget. I hereby salute our beloved nation and our Veterans Assembly. At the beginning of my words, just yesterday, this country, flag and nation, the hero Mehmet-dono who rose up to testify, my condolences to our beloved nation, and I curse the traitorous terrorist organization PKK, its extensions and its collaborators in your presence. Mr. President, the National Ministry of Defence is taking on the mission to ensure the survival and security of the Republic of Turkey, to maintain its national defence strategy, to adapt to the age of fast-growing knowledge and technology, and to deal with the risks and threats that have arisen in the environment of security. As you know, the world's security environment is being reshaped; power balances, actors and roles are constantly changing. I sincerely congratulate our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on his outstanding efforts to fight terrorism across and across the country for our sovereignty, independence and security, to protect our rights, interests, and interests in our blue homeland, and to contribute to world peace. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, our esteemed MPs have succeeded in all kinds of threats and threats against our noble nation's love, trust and prayer, martyrs, veterans, if I die, if I die, in the wake of the most extensive and intense struggle since the Turkish Army of War and Cypriot Peace. In the understanding of our national Ministry of Defence, with all its institutions and institutions, especially the PKK, YPG, DEAŞ, terrorist organizations, and the Bahar Shield and the Talons. As we all know, Azerbaijan has saved his occupied lands from the invasion of Armenia by Karabakh, the One Homeland. During this time, Turkey has sided with the righteous cases of our fellow, brother Azerbaijan brothers. Turkey has mobilized and also mobilized all national forces to protect its national support. The fight against terrorism will continue until the last terrorist is neutralized. In this scope, many innovations and practices have been implemented from staff supply to training, from the new military system to the organization and logistical structure so that our Turkish Armed Forces have made constant progress in quality and quantity. Again, the Institute of Machine and Chemical Industries, which has been owned by our National Ministry of Defence, has been transformed into an anonymous company by the will of our great Parliament to be a more dynamic, efficient, and competitive structure that has been desired for years. Turkish Armed Forces have now successfully carried out many critical projects needed by the Turkish Armed Forces. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have reached a very good point today in order to reduce the external dependence of the Turkish defence industry, with major breakthroughs in the defence industry under the leadership of our President. Our country has put a great deal of emphasis on defence industry investments to overcome the challenges or hidden, open embargos that global suppliers face. In the most critical moments of counterterrorism, our country, which has been left alone in its most critical moments, has been able to take very serious steps to meet our needs with speed, when it needs products under threat by the so-called Allied countries. At this point, we are not in the position to applaud this government, even if the government does the most righteous work, that our friends from the CHP have not said a single sentence about our achievements in our defense industry, which the world has been envious of and appreciated by. It is important to show us the best example of the word.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0311par0400	Pack it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0310par0401	But hopefully, just as we've built drones, drones, SIHA, TIHA, ATAK helicopters, SKY helicopters, HURKÜSTAN, with Allah's permission, we'll bring the ALTAY tank and our aircraft and our National Destroyer plane together with this nation's brilliant young engineers, and we'll live together. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our Turkish Armed Forces are the common denominators of all who feel that they belong to this land, in the shadow of the moon star flag. Therefore, I would like to share with you on this occasion that we need to avoid any constructive and valuable views that might strengthen our Turkish Armed Forces, and again wear our Turkish Armed Forces down, demoralize them, demoralize them, position, any kind of behavior. On this occasion, I remember our beloved martyrs, our heroic veterans, with mercy and gratitude. I wish our D.O.D. budget would be a blessing. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0312par0406	Nüğde MP Yavuz Ergun. Here you are, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0313par0408	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of our National Defense Ministry for 2022. I salute our General Assembly. I pray to God for mercy, and for our veterans, and for a long life, from the past to this day, to all those who have fallen to the ground, to the land of the state, to the land of the nation. I salute Mehmetçik, and all of our military personnel, who go on a journey to make the oppressed laugh, and when it comes to home, say the rest, I wish them ease in their duties. My Lord is with them, and He is with them, a helper. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. President, were defending the rights of the oppressed nations when he said that the world is greater than the five. Today, world states have returned to their security policies. We will bring back the peace that our founder, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, needs in order to bring peace to the world. Seeing today's foreign policy event and the games being played, our responsibility is not limited to our limitations. To block the corridor for PKK terror organization in Syria, you need to understand how important the Battles of the Firat Shield, Olive Branch and Peace Fountain are, how important the blue homeland is. The operations have shown us once again that the enemy ranks in the Battle of Salvation have never changed and will not change. Today you have isolated the country. Once again we tell the opposition: New and strong Turkey is capable of disrupting any game. The entire world has become envious and envious of the defense industry we've made domestic and national. When we were in office, the local production rate of our defence industry was about 20 percent, and, uh, thank God, we're at 80 percent today, and hopefully, we'll get it to higher levels as soon as possible. In 2002, when there were only 66 defence industries projects, we're doing more than 750 projects where we came from. From $5.5 billion we've been saving for national defense projects, today it's more than $60 billion. Today, we cut our own belly; we are one of the leading manufacturers of systems such as drones, drones, drones, TIHAs, ATAK helicopters and FIRTINA probes. Yesterday, we became an exporting country from Turkey, which produced almost zero domestic defence systems. Dear President, dear MPs, as sons of a nation that has dominated the seas for many years, we continue to strengthen our fleet at full speed. Our projects are being completed for our rights in the blue country and for our safety at sea. The weapons, radar, combat and electronic systems of our built and modernized marine vehicles are equipped with domestic and national production products. One of the best examples of this is that the Marine Ball Project -- which Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recently gave the good news -- has been completed, and in this area, hopefully, we have completely eliminated our external dependency. We have many projects that are completely domestic and nationally ongoing: Sungur Weapons Systems, Turkey's first National Heavy Class Torpedo AKYA, AMACA weapons systems, HURKÜRKÜ, ATAK helicopter, amphibious assault ship, military rifle, ALTAY tank-savar weapons systems, and our first fighter fighter fighter aircraft, which will lead Turkey to the top league; in 2023, we will see this aircraft, which will be the fifth generation of engineers and will be the next generation fighter aircraft. Mr. President, valuable MPs, for Turkey's full independence, we need to nationalize and be strong in the military sector. You know why it's necessary? It is essential because we have seen trucks full of weapons given to the PKK, to the PYD. Greece is essential because it's stockpiling troops and ammunition on nearby islands. It is essential that we see how Afghanistan is, how Syria has come, how Iraq has been looted. In the Mediterranean, it is essential that we see how our vital energy efforts for our country are prevented. It's over for us to lose what we won in the war at the table. There's a strong Turkey in every area. We're building a strong military infrastructure in our local and national resources to be on the field and at the table. The PKK's supporters and the opposition, who can't handle this situation, are so confused by the fact that our drones and the SIHA (SIHA) have deliberately ignored the investments that the whole world is looking at, and have been contradicted by all the values of our beloved nation, they've become spokesman for terrorist organizations. Whatever you do, wherever you meet with your friends, you will never be able to save yourself from the apocalyptic conscience of our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0314par0416	Come in, come in, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0313par0417	Under the leadership of our president, we are aware that Mr. Minister and his team have been working nonstop for even a moment. And for that effort, I give thanks to our Minister, the esteemed bureaucrats of our National Ministry of Defense, to all of our Mehmet-chik, who is in charge of his duties abroad and abroad. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best of our National Defense Ministry budget in 2022, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit04spe0314par0421	Congressmans, I'm giving the merger half an hour.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0314par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. Now, let's begin our speeches on behalf of the Good Party Group. Mr Muhammad Naci Cinisli, MP of Erzurum.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0315par0007	Mr. President, dear MPs, Mr. Ministers, I salute you and our beloved nation. I've been promised to share our views on agriculture and forestry agriculture as a good party and explain our solutions to problems. I'd especially like to point out that if Turkish agriculture were in a much better condition, we could talk about the fact that it raised our positive and prosperous levels. But I'm afraid that's not the case at all. Please be assured, it makes me very sad to talk about the situation in which Turkish agriculture has been reduced. In the last ten years, the GDP weight of agriculture has decreased by 18.3 per cent to 6 per cent. As a good party, we're ready to take agriculture out of despair and reproduce it, and we'll figure it out. Today, we're listening to the very right, beautiful ideas of our esteemed MPs, and I would like to have them taken seriously by Mr. Secretary. Prior to the pandemic, we have always defended the importance of agriculture as a good party, and the pandemic is a strong warning for those who do not understand the importance of national agriculture. It must now become aware of how vital the field that agriculture covers in our lives is. You'll appreciate that agricultural production has to continue to make our food guarantee possible. That's exactly why we need national and sustainable agricultural policies. Unfortunately, the fact that there is still no serious programme for agricultural production shows that the apocalypse of the issue is not understood by the power of the AK PARTY, which defines itself as domestic and national. After all, we have very valuable farmers who are trying to stay in production, but they've become unable to sow their land, to feed their animal, by means of their non-national policies that overstep the fault of the AK PARTI government. Production gap and outside dependency created by importation in the EC PARTI administration poses a threat to Turkish agriculture. The element of this national security issue is the opportunist AK PARTI government, which has become the biggest rival of the Turkish farmer by import. Outer dependency in food is a threat of sovereignty. As our party's understanding, Mr. President Coral Akşener, as Ma'am, at every opportunity, agriculture is a matter of national security. We're constantly saying that agriculture is no less important than the defence industry, that we consider it a strategic sector. I regret to inform you that despite all our warnings, a national security issue of the AK PARTY, which ignores our farmer and makes him think he's carrying on purpose, has become a national security issue that needs to be discussed. We're in the most beautiful geography in the world, we live in the most fertile land in the world, but in the last 16 years, we've lost 4.2 million hectares of agricultural land. Over the past ten years, agriculture's share of employment has been reduced from 23 per cent to 17 per cent. Women's employment in agriculture has dropped by a quarter. This decline is actually one of the main reasons why Eastern and Southeast Anatolians migrated. As a member of the Erzurum MP, I know very well that if he doesn't want the woman of that family in the East, no one can take them off his land. Again, over the last ten years, agriculture's contribution to national income has dropped from 70 billion dollars to $40 billion. At $1.1 a pound, the diesel 9 times the amount of fertilizer, which is $237 a ton, is 39 times the amount of urethra, 7 times the weight of the food oath. Prices are now rising daily. EC PARTY's power depends on increasing prices in exchange for higher currency. I must remind you, the exchange is not increasing, our national currency is melting. And that's because you're in power. Today, Turkish lira has no savings value and no price value. If we look at 63% of the bank's currency deposit rate, I'm afraid the next step may be that our national money -- God forbid -- may not even have the value of supply. Before there was a loss of excess value in TL. The common point of farmers around Turkey was to damage it. The farmer doesn't want to hear any more excuses. In the eyes of the AK PARTY, the farmer and the manufacturer have no value. Let's not refer to agriculture as a strategic sector and a matter of national security, as a representative of a democratic, nationalist, developmentist party and political tradition, so that the mindset that doesn't care about agriculture doesn't call itself national and domestic. [[A round of applause from the Good Party and CHP]] Between 2007-2020, a $320 billion support payment should be paid, with a total of 1 per cent of the GDP, while our farmer, as of 2020, is owed 180 billion from the EC PARTI. Even our bid as the PTA party was rejected in order to increase the budget for agricultural support by $28 billion $200m. There was nothing to be expected of but a shortage of poverty and corruption that condemned people to poverty, opened the doors of corruption to power. In addition, support payments are paid about 15 months after some products are planted. For example, in livestock, calf support is paid 12 months later, Mr. Secretary. In his statement yesterday, I didn't know if it was ignorance or deception that the Minister reflected 2020 as they supported the calf supports 2021. As the couple cries out, the Reverend Minister can say, "We have no farmers who do harm. " In May, the Ministry of Agriculture announced its price of wheat at $2,250 per ton, and the Minister announced a very good price. Last month, the ministry's TEGYN was able to sell 13,000 tonnes of wheat at $5,320 per ton. We invite the minister of good news to be serious. Like some other ministers, we would like to remind Mr. Pakdemirli of Parliament of its rude and insensitive behavior today. When he can't even fit in, we advise him to refrain from posing as the owner of the state. Congressmans, the banana and citrus manufacturers in the south are miserable, even under the cost of $26.5, which is announced in the nuts we lead in the north world. Moreover, while the AK PARTY puts its responsibility in the economic crisis over the so-called external forces, a foreign firm could not react to the withdrawal of its price to $25 in nuts, the farmer's opponent is the AK PARTY. We don't say in vain. I don't know who the outside power is, but he's talking about a familiar inner power that doesn't make the country look for the outside in every field, especially in agriculture. The same scenarios apply to farmers who produce wheat, barley, lentils, and chickpeas, but the excuse for them is drought. The drought bonus was just announced two days ago after it was too late. Mr. Minister of Agriculture and his team failed to plan and calculate against droughts in July. In three years' time, there's no different outcome, of course, if so much of the Ministry's genetics is played with the appointment of countless, unsatisfactory partners. The EC PARTY, also rivaled by the wheat manufacturer, imported wheat from $260 in July and $240 in international markets due to lack of accountability and obligation. From this stand, we have repeatedly warned that God should not test our nation with famine, the first on December 16, 2019, and that you should not become dependent on agriculture, trusting in the dollar you have. Expensive imported wheat -- by way of courtship -- blew up the price of flour. In my hometown of Erzurum, our bakers couldn't produce bread. Today, we're having a big problem with our dollars being sold over pandemic conditions. Where we come from, the bakers are being forced to produce bread. Our bakers and our citizens can't respond to the right demands of cheap bread, they have bread lines. A responsible and conscientious Ministry and the government should be ashamed of this situation. Dear lawmakers, agriculture is still being watered by conventional methods, not technologically adapted. More water is used than necessary, and some of the water is vaporized. The irrigation methods are expected to change. According to climate conditions, production patterns throughout the country are essential in the region and in the basin. That's what we'll do in our power. Sugar beets are another strategic product for our country. But since 2015, we've even been importers of sugar. Now do you understand why we object to your wife being held against your friend when you can't control the sugar prices? What more do we need to do to help you realize that shutting down sugar factories is not only a major impact on agriculture, but also on animalism? Minister, I have to ask on behalf of the farmers, I'm sorry: are you the minister and minister of the Turkish farmer's import lobby? Let me make it very clear from here that I'm contributing to the debate: although I'm not in the habit of targeting a person directly in politics, it is my opinion, Mr. Pakdemirli, that you are the Minister of the import lobby. But I don't care what you are, as a good party, our concern is the future of our country, our nation and our state. It's the mentality and the institution that brought you and your mission to this office that's responsible. Your unofficial national policies are the Turnsol Paper of that mentality and institution, the AK PARTY. Dear lawmakers, the raisins, the dried figs, the tripods, and the peanuts don't stop. And raisins and dried figs are exports. But our support prices are the same as last year. I mean, the so-called domestic and national AK PARTI government is trying to make people who produce products that we're leading the world to get tired of. Our country has the highest in food inflation among the OECD countries and the highest inflation in developing countries. In the well-being of the party, the economy's biggest supporter will be the high-increased agricultural sector. We're going to implement an agricultural policy that will bring food prices down permanently. We're going to make the Turkish farmer a major actor in the agricultural industry and make him a prestige player. We'll increase agricultural production and reduce casualties. We're going to lower the cost of input in plant and animal production. Erzurum, Kars, Ardahan, Bayburt, the Silver House, and the Mush. The main element in the region will be livestock and agriculture. We're going to make it easier for the small- and medium-scale manufacturer to reach the market by spreading their manufacturing organizations, storage and logistics. We're going to eliminate post-production unfair gains. We'll reduce the tax load in production and food. We're going to go to our farmer's state banks and the loan-sharking Agricultural Loan Cooperate, not to wipe out debt interest, but to a production-responsored debt configuration. Congressmans, as our state of the Republic of Turkey will live for a period of time, we must raise our former institutions, established as the HRP as part of that day's extraordinary struggle by politicians, bureaucrats, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. In this regard, we will transform the Ataturk Forest Farm into the Academy of Agriculture Sciences and create a model in a manner worthy of its glory and purpose. (Applause from the parties) We will build the top agricultural research, information and information centre of the region by adding existing agricultural research institutes to the Academy and connecting it to the techno park. We'll consider the Academy a national security element. In five years' time, we will complete the relevant work and secure our future food security. Because of lack of data, we're going to create the essential data infrastructure for our farmer, who's being produced like he's gambling. The International Centre for Agricultural Research and Biodiversity will also be included in the Academy of Sciences, where our country has around 14,000 biodiversitys. It's not acceptable for our country to receive only 162 million dollars when the annual seed trade in the world is over $50 billion. When we come to power, one of our biggest challenges will be to protect our gene resources, to ensure their return. In our country, the use of artificial intelligence in agriculture is nearly extinct. We're going to bring agricultural businesses together with high agricultural technologies. Therefore, an IT center will be established within the academy. We'll give farmers children additional quotas and additional points to study in agricultural vocational schools by making positive discrimination. At the end of my words, I cherish our fallen martyrs fighting to extinguish the forest fires. We were devastated to witness our hundred thousand hectares of forest burning in our country. These may be natural fires caused by drought, but we strongly doubt that there is a chain of unnatural causes in which it can't be extinguished. The new tender for putting out planes and helicopters, which are controversial in forest fires, will be held by the Presidential Defence Industry Chairman rather than by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but the requirement for at least five tons of water tanks that disable aircraft in the inventory of the Turkish Air Agency, remains in place on the tender condition. Turkey's Air Force aircraft, which can fly, can't participate in the tender again because it has a capacity of 4.9 tonnes. There's a bad smell in the fire and after.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0316par0025	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0315par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. We believe that the unsustainable use of national wealth requires explanation of the fact that hundreds of hectares of forest land have been allowed to burn indiscriminately, and that the process of a highly misty tender process. We expect high-level officials to take extreme care in this tender process, whose names are being given to a certain foreign company and a local company. We pledge before our great nation that when we have the authority of the Lord God of God in the early elections, we will restore our farmer to his broken land, we will develop agriculture industry, we will enrich a country that will produce more than it consumes, and we will enrich it with our farmer. I ask that the budget be blessed, that it be used with the right and the best of intentions, and I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0317par0030	In order, it is Fatrettin Yoshış.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0318par0032	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of the PTA Party Group. Our sources of fresh water are not well managed. Excessive consumption of wild irrigation and underground water supply has caused difficult damage to our land and water presence. Turkey has lost more than half of its lake and wetlands in the last 60 years. Even so, ponds are being built in front of the rivers that feed the lakes because the people want them to. As our country suffers from water stress, as soon as our clean water supply is low, the pond production continues at all speeds. Since 2011, power has been unable to bring water law proposals to Parliament. Nineteen-year-old AK PARTY government is setting the stage for easy looting of water resources. Since 2006, you've made agreements with water rights companies for HESEs and dams, and as a result, we've seen how our water supply has been destroyed. So far, HES projects have had major damage to 25 water basins, and in most areas, drinkable water sources have turned into construction sites. Turkey's Water Institute was founded in 2011. What was the purpose of this institution? What has he done so far? Why was it set up, with global warming, did it come up with a solution to water stress? What measures did he take regarding wild irrigation? Anybody know, anybody hear? You've already demonstrated once again how insincere you are with your budget for this institution. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to tell you a snake story or a lie story. The famous Melen Dam will take water to Istanbul and solve Istanbul's water problem. It's a dam that says on March 6, 2014, what the Minister of the era is doing: we're throwing out the whole thing. Hold the time, I'll give you the date, December 7, 2016, at 13.59 p.m., which means that December 7, 2016 will be opened at 13.59 p.m. It's been years and years, and you know what the pain is? Right now this canal can't collect water. Why? They're in a hurry, they're going to do a show, they're going to do an act -- five years in between -- why didn't the water happen? Because the dam isn't watering, the project's wrong, the project's not right, they're in a hurry. The result, I won't extend: 465 million liras were retrialed two years ago, and it'll cost at least a billion for repairs. O history-givers, where are you? Isn't it a shame about this nation's money? It's a shame, isn't it? And the firm they gave us hasn't nailed a nail in two years. I wonder why. They're determined to leave Istanbul without water, so we'll wait another five years. Dear MPs, another agony, another pain. Now they're called giant projects, and they've done the same giant project in Iconya. They made a channel for 541 million liras, 125 kilometers long. Our channel is ACHI. What had happened? It was going to open in 2017, we gave it water, we gave it water, it exploded in 2018, 2019. But you know what we did in the end? I swear, Mr. Minister, congratulations, we opened the thirsty channel on July 3, 2020. The Minister's picture opened the thirsty channel. It's been a year and a half, no water. Now, Mr. Secretary has opened up, and the senior bureaucrats of our Iconium have attended the very best opening. But now the Konian asks: Mr. Minister, where's our water? Where's the water from the open channel where you're doing 125 kilometers? It's a lie, too. It's like a snake story. I'm asking the minister, what happened, when are you going to turn the water on? When will you give it to me? He says: "I have given it to you again." In 2022, God willing... (Applause from the Party rows) Are you bringing 450 million pounds to this nation's back? But, dear brothers, there is a shame. Now, when this project was done by the Melen Dam, the DSI General Director, the deputy minister, the head of the department, the Vice President of the Dams. So those who have lost billions of dollars have been promoted. Is there such a government? Yes, I do. There's another thing: TIGEM, the Court reports that millions of dollars have been damaged, it's sunk! We promoted the sinkhole, we promoted the Deputy Minister. Is there such a thing in the world? For God's sake, is there? If there is a servant of God who says there is, I will leave. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear friends, look, now, Mr. Secretary, you've dried up the forests: Carpınar; the forests you've dried up, the forests you've dried up, and this Karapınar, and this is the home of our Minister of the Environment. Is a minister who doesn't look at his own country going to be Minister of Environment to the Republic of Turkey, for God's sake? Get out of here! Come on, come on, not that one, not that one. What are you yelling about? There's so much trouble, so much trouble, I'm yelling. It's not my problem, it's everyone's. Are you having a hard time? Now, in Konya, trees are being planted, but you've been watching everywhere. My time is short, so I'll keep telling you. Mr. Pakdemirli has changed 48 CEOs and heads of apartments in three years. The minister doesn't rely on bureaucrats, although he doesn't really need them, because the Ministry is run by over 50 formal and unofficial advisors. I can't really answer the questions I'm asking about this. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We'll keep asking. Mr. Secretary, be advised, your wife's relatives are either advisors at the Ministry or members of the High Commissioner's Board. Do you know that dozens of people from Minister Bey's Chief of Staff, from Chief of Staff to his chauffeur, from his advisors, are members of the High Commissioner's Board, double-paid, double-breasted... we always thought they were doubles in the palace, doubles in the Ministry? People of Turkey, do you know that your flock, the Aghas, is in a good mood and they're taking each other in pairs? Now, there's another, the Ministry's favorite company. Does the Ministry have a favorite? His name is Desibel Agency, Abi, and he's under every rock, and that's under the tenders, and that's what he does for the Ministry. I'm getting information, and they're saying, "Yeah, who's the partner in this?" I don't know, I'll have to ask the Minister. Now, valuable lawmakers have not received agriculture engineers, forest engineers, food engineers and veterinary physicians for nearly two years. Thousands of young people are unemployed. The Minister doesn't care, since he runs the Ministry like his own farm, he doesn't have a problem. He doesn't have that problem for her. Is there a minister who's now in debt, who's been put to work, who's been seized by his house, his field, his tractor, but who's going to be able to fix it? No, we can't find it. The feeders are crying out for nothing. Can anyone hear him? That's hard to find, too. Milk cows are being sent to the slaughter. Is anyone listening to the milk feeders? Well, he's not here either. Agricultural inputs are rising at missile speed. Fertilizer, bait, diesel prices are gone. Increases in the price of food and electricity set a record. Citizens are devastated by unstoppable high food increases. And if that's not enough, the lower the ladder is increasing. The public's health is at stake, does the Minister care? Oh, let's not get ahead of ourselves, I swear congratulations, he's making a statement, Mr. Secretary of Commerce, we're starting inspections five days after this date." he says, he declares. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0319par0051	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0318par0052	Gee, I've worked in the government for nearly 40 years, I know the government well, I know how to run it. I mean, forgive my surprise. I mean, could it be something like this? We're coming to check, take precautions. He's done it twice, twice. Now, I wouldn't be doing my duty to this nation if I didn't tell them about the freak apps of this freaky system here. Actually, there's so much to say, Mr. Minister, and you know them, and you know them, but I swear to God, I'm telling you something from here, my AK PARTY brothers will be angry, but please don't be angry, forgive me. Mr. Secretary, stand on this mission, I swear to God they won't take you. I used to say, "Go." Don't go, thanks to you, the Turkish farmer, the Turkish peasant, the farmer will send the AK PARTY because of you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Make sure of that, 'cause he's gonna send it to the country. Bye-bye.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0320par0057	In turn, Mr. Hasan Subaş. Here you go, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0321par0060	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to begin with the mercy of our martyrs. I give them our gratitude. During the talks, there were a lot of talks about human rights, even the Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights. As of December 10th, I celebrate Human Rights Day. In my speech, I will often talk about human rights, but I will place the words of reform, law reform, justice and human rights since 2018, the most skilled period of the EC PARTI government, rather than my own opinion. And secondly, I'm going to try to compare the terms of human rights and legal reform during the Alliance's innovation period 2002, when it was run by the parliamentary system. Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of my party on the Justice Department budget of 2022. Mr. Secretary, in the first part of your budget talk in the commission, you highlighted three issues in the first place. First, the state of law and judicial independence; second, your determination to do judicial reforms; third, you stressed the need for a new and civil constitution. The first chapter began with the following sentences: ▪ The task of the legal order today is to create a system of rules based on human rights. Truth and freedom are not born with grace, nor can they be preserved as a blessing. The rights of being human are the cause of the state of law. There's only one ideology of judgment, which is justice; there's only one place he'll take orders from, the constitution, the law, the law. For us, it's all about issues, our basic sensitivity, and with this precision, we care deeply about the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. Because only an independent and impartial judgment can decide for the nation. Judgeship is not a place to be taken; it is a authority that will never be touched. Is it, Minister? We believe in your good intentions, but does the Minister of the Interior believe that the law should follow him? Does the President believe that he never ceases to adjust his judgment? Mr. Secretary, you first announced the reforms at a meeting with members of the Justice Commission on December 26, 2018. You also briefed members of the Commission on the need to strengthen the neutrality and independence of the judiciary, that there were problems in harmonisation with the Human Rights Court, that the trust in the judiciary was lower, and that the draft of a reform package, which tackled many issues. Then, in May 2019, the President's Judicial Reform Strategy Document and in March 2021, the process of judicial reforms began with the Human Rights Action Plan. So far, five judicial reform packages have been released, and it's well-known that none of them are reformable, only elaborately edited according to the needs of the day. The process of wear and tear in the judiciary lasts a long time. He remembers that a number of journalists were arrested collectively after the first reform package for freedom of press and expression. The statement of journalist Müyesser Yildı that he did not need to defend himself is not forgotten. After the second package of judicial reform was released, bar presidents who opposed the multi-bar arrangement were prevented from marching by meeting and demonstration rights. After the third and fourth package of judicial reforms, for the first time in Turkey, I did not recognize the decisions of the courts, the decisions of the Court and the ECHR. These were signs of leaving the state of law. Again, at that time, the woman was called zero tolerance for violence. We left the Istanbul Convention alone, with the President ruling ignored. Again, judges and prosecutors who did not recognise the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights were promoted by the President. The fifth package of judicial reform was made due to the need of the debtor and poorer society to re-organise and re-organise executive and bankruptcy agencies, which have failed due to more than 30 million executions and bankruptcy files. It's not reform, it's sloppy revision. Since the start of the presidency's presidential system, reforms in the interest of adapting to the European Court of Human Rights have led to the process of removing Turkey from the council at the point we have come at the end of this process, where human rights, judicial independence and neutrality have been the most repeated. Minister, in the third part of your presentation, you voiced the need for a new and civil constitution: there is a more democratic Turkey on the horizon of all our reform steps. That is why the current Constitution is narrow to our will to reform. Not just our will to reform, but our experience of democracy, the history of our Parliament and the will of our nation. You are continuing: The new constitution will be the unresolved seal of all democratic gains. In view of the actions of power, constitutional rights and freedoms have been greatly disturbed. We are the only country that invests most in prisons and, despite this, has a capacity of over 100 percent in Europe. Clearly, the new constitution is required by the President to be the unbreakable seal for the radicalisation of this regime. I wanted to remind you what was said in the presidential government system in the name of the law, what was done and where we came from. And now I want to remind you of the early years of your power, when you lived in the parliamentary system, which you call the apathetic era. During the period between 2002 and 2007, the Western world, neighbouring countries and capital were largely trusted with you. You have shown a strong staff and a respectful view of the common mind. The system's name was the parliamentary system, which was negative. May I remind you that you may have forgotten the 2002 election declaration of your power. You're saying that there is a need for political will to bring the country to its proper path, that's what the AK PARTY represents. AK PARTI is democratic, AK PARTY conservative, AK PARTY innovative and modern. Our party sees our country's full membership in the European Union as the natural result of our modernisation process. The implementation of economic and political provisions of the EU criteria is an important step towards modernisation as a state and as a society. In democratic regimes, our party, which advocates that political authorities and bureaucratic structures cannot intervene in the use of basic rights and freedoms, which are guaranteed in international contracts, will make the necessary changes to the Constitution and the law, especially in international agreements, where our country is on the side, especially to raise the level set by Copenhagen Criterians. You have done so today, but you do not comply with your own ruling on the implementation of international contracts. You are continuing to say that our party will implement the principles of the legal state, protect individuals against the state and organised forces, ensure that basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed in the principles and standards brought by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. Yes, this statement of the EC PARTY affected the world and global capital, particularly the West, and its sound of respect for the law, its commitments, its confidence, its approaches, its respect for the law. Between 2002 and 2004, eight harmonies were adopted as part of EU integration, and in 2001 and 2004, two constitutional packages were adopted in the TBM. Another turning point in Turkey-EU relations took place at the Brussels Summit, dated 17 December 2004, and the summit decided to begin full membership talks on 3 October 2005, with Turkey meeting the political criteria sufficiently. Between 2006 and 2010, 13 chapters were opened for talks. In these years, Turkey's trust of 71.5 billion dollars in investments led to serious and positive economic developments. Relationships in your 2010 phalanx have been paused, defiantly regressed, and relations with both the Western world and its neighbours have almost been severed by the 2018 presidential government system. The world knows very well why, because law and justice have been put on the shelf, judicial independence, neutrality has suffered greatly. When the government was established, with the President's closest to the head of the economy, the world saw it as a economic model, which, rightly, depends on one man, does not want to be audited. Because of this insecurities, it caused loss of value and inflation in TL, and the capital ran away. Recently, it was the last straw that the President declared himself competent enough to write his own book in the economy. The fact that the Central Bank did not recognise its independence, that it saw itself in each area as responsible and in charge was the beginning of collapse in every area. Judicial, legislative, even executive, and state bureaucracy have been completely ineffective and dysfunctional, and massive destruction has occurred in the economy and Turkish currency.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0322par0077	Here you go, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0321par0078	More than half of society lives under the poverty and hunger limit, except for almost the government's co-hosts and a certain minority. I think I've tried to compare you to your most skilled presidential government system and your rookie years to the best of my time. I wish you a good budget as I end my words. Mr. President, I'd like to repeat the call of our leader, Coral Akşener, and end my words by saying, "The election is on the way." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0323par0083	Anthalya MP Feridun Bahshi is in charge. Mr. Feridun Bahshi, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0324par0086	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to explain the opinion and opinion of the ruling party on the budgets of the Turkish Justice Academy, the Criminal Execution Institutions and the Association of Prisons, the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey, the Protection of Personal Data and the Board of Judges and Prosecutors. I salute you all. On this occasion, I would like to begin by wishing that the valuable judges and prosecutors, court employees, employees of the Department of Corrections and the justice system, lawyers, would have better opportunities to serve the judiciary. Today, I'm going to talk to you about a state of law that our country has forgotten for 19 years, but in the very near future, which is that it will surely meet in the power of the party. Dear friends, the law of the righteous will be eliminated, the law of the righteous will be eliminated today, the forces that dominate the democratic, secular and social law state, where law is superior and sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. The constitution and laws will be removed from the shelves, the act of the government will be eliminated and rights, law and justice will be judged in the country. The form of the state will be implemented as stated in the Constitution and the laws. In accordance with the principle of separation, the institutions will act in accordance with their authority and responsibilities. All administrative judicial decisions issued by independent judiciary against the administration's actions will be implemented immediately without delay. There will be no side contractors, no five-to-ten paid advisors, no exclusives, no institutions. Public officials who have caused the loss of rights will be held accountable for their actions and functions. The independence of the judiciary will be carried out without compromise. The 1961 Constitution will be restored to a geographical guarantee, which was later removed from practice. The judges' decisions will only be subject to judicial supervision, and they will not be investigated, except for those clearly declared to be crimes in the law due to their decisions. The Constitutional Court defines the state of law: the state of law, the state of law, which abides by the rules of all operations, processing and actions, and by the constitution, means the state which is bound by these rules. The legal state is the state that respects human rights and establishes a protected, just law and obeys the law in its activities. Under the power of the Good Party, the legal state in accordance with that description will be established. Dear lawmakers, the AK PARTY government has always created allies in everything. They started with friendly capital; they created non-compliant press; they created non-licensed, unlicensed, non-responsive bureaucratic red tape by the hands of fellow bureaucrats; they even created a supporting HSK. As a result, the judges were intimidated, the Supreme Court members were intimidated, prosecutors were intimidated; in short, fear dominated all levels of the judiciary. In this fear, the judges who did the work according to the government's orders and instructions stepped forward. They cleared the country of mob leaders involved in all kinds of crimes, drug traffickers, suspects carrying ministers in their planes, lifted the measures on their property and allowed them to flee abroad. These members of the judiciary were promoted in various ways, rewarded, even elected to the Supreme Court before they were given instructions given to the HSK, and made a member of the Constitutional Court by order of one man, without a single file review, without signing a single verdict in the Supreme Court. However, the selection of the Constitutional Court was ten years of Supreme Court membership. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now discuss the demands of public defenders. As it is known, public defenders work in law enforcement. Public defenders, like Republican prosecutors, strive to ensure that the administration's work and actions are legal. Each one of them graduated from law school, just like the judge, prosecutors, notaries, but with the level of duty and education they've been taking on, they haven't been met for years. That's why there's a rapid escape in public defendership, and they're running out of numbers day by day. Public defenders should be considered career class. Under Article 55 of the Constitution, 4800 additional indicators, 2,000 reparations and reparations in accordance with the principle of equal employment should be paid in honor of the law's profession, provided there are 200 per cent special service compensation. Like judges and prosecutors, the job must start from the eighth degree. He must be covered by mandatory occupational responsibility insurance and the premiums must be covered by the administration. In terms of rights of rights, the Act of State Officers No. 657 must be passed, the Law of Public Lawyers must be passed, and rights and authorities must be restructured. In this framework, an autonomous council of public defenders must be established, financially and administratively, in order to regulate rights, tasks and powers such as status, discipline, appointment. If public defenders are asked not to lose the institution's memory, the commitment of public defenders to improve their rights as part of the Justice Department's Judicial Reform Strategy Document must be fulfilled immediately. We have submitted our proposed law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and on behalf of public defenders, we will be his followers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one of the other important things we consider important is the changing of the service class of the court employees. The employees of the court serve in accordance with the Law of State Officers No. 657, but there is a significant lack of autonomy and difficulty in their rights because they are considered in the general administrative services class, not in their area, such as the law services in our country, the police services, the religious services, the education and teaching services class. It is evident that while the challenges of the profession of court staff are known throughout the community, justice personnel do not fit into the general administrative service class, which is considered part of Article 36 of the Law on State Officers No. 657. In addition, it is contrary to the principle of the Constitution's basic principles of measurement, that the officers of the court are in the general management service class, such as office officials. This framework should include the class of justice services, including the justice staff in the justice department, under the 36th article of State Officers' Law No. 657. Again, there are demands that the officers of the penal institute be taken into the class of police services. We had an offer on the law, and that demand must be met. Dear lawmakers, today is December 10th Human Rights Day. On 10 December 1948, the United Nations adopted and declared the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Red Chinese Government, which became a member of the United Nations and signed this declaration, continues its genocide with inhumane practices in East Turkistan, occupied in 1949. Our descendants who were exposed to genocide, a handful of East Turkians, the Uygur Turks, the intellectuals, are trying to announce this inhumane practice to the world. While many countries in the world are making opposition statements, Turkey remains silent on this issue.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0325par0096	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0324par0097	Even World Uygur Congress President Dolkun, who came to our country, could not take Jesus (Jesus) to Turkey and turn him away from Esenboğa Airport. I'm not even entering detention, arrests and pressure on Uygur Turks living in Turkey. From this bench of our Veteran Assembly, on this meaningful day, I speak out to the scream of the Turkish Turkish state, do what the Turkish state cannot do, condemn and protest the red Chinese government. (PEOPLE Applause) Pain is our love, our love, our struggle. As for this budget, which we call the poverty and corruption budget, which lasts the talks, I respectfully salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0326par0101	Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0327par0104	Mr. President, dear MPs, the great Turkish nation and Mr. Ministers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice Department budget, on behalf of the party, and I salute you all. In the prime of their lives, I cherish and thank the martyrs who have been mowed down like crops for this land. The Justice Department budget we're talking about, but I don't think it's right to put justice in a narrow frame just as a law order, a trial, a defense. Justice can be described as equal and equitable sharing, reconciliation, raising rights, prosperity to the highest possible level, fair judgment, independent and impartial judgment, free defence, equal equality with victims and perpetrators, everyone being considered equal in the eyes of the law, briefly, the duty of the rulers to ensure what is just. Is it possible to talk about a fair share, equality in the present day when nearly 40 million of our citizens can't even meet the basic needs? It's a budget of lack of funds that don't concern the unemployed, the workers, the pensioners, the farmers, the tradesmen. It's also the corruption budget because the rich are made richer, because the citizens don't pass by, they don't know their place, they don't know their name, they're on highways, they're on bridges, they're on tunnels, they're on foreign exchanges, they're on city hospitals, they're on top of triple the cost. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if the government really wants to resolve our country's problems, the rule of rule of law must be adopted and by universal law ensure that the judiciary is neutral and independent. In May 2019, it was announced that the judges and prosecutors would adopt geographical guarantees. Thus, the appointment and transport weapon of the HSK, which stood at the top of our judges as the sword of Damocles, would be removed, allowing him to make impartial, independent, and fearless decisions; the judicial guarantee would be strengthened, decisions would be swifter and more just. If you say, "What happened to that promise? " The power, as in all of them, has, unfortunately, forgotten that promise over the past two years. Today, the judiciary is under pressure from politics. The geographical collateral, however, could inspire confidence in judicial decisions. I hope this will be done by the well-being party. In Turkey, there are still more than 75 per cent of those who do not trust the judiciary. Mr. Minister of Justice said last year that my heart was the biggest index for me. I know from your remarks about your merits, fair judgment, that everyone is equal before the law, your belief in independent justice, free defence, and especially the state of law, but I do know that you are most disturbed by the quality of the legal state, including the fact that judicial decisions are not implemented in practice. The Minister's sincerity to trust in justice is believed in our nation, but he does not trust in the system and the judiciary; it is useful to investigate this fierce contradiction. Foreign countries don't trust Turkey's order; we're at the end of the World Law Index, we're among the untrustworthy countries. Of course, we have proper judges, but there's no warranty. Once again, our judges cannot make independent, neutral, and fearless decisions because there is no guarantee of a judge, a significant portion of the judiciary angers political will and worries about being driven there in winter, regardless of family integrity in the snow. The first thing to do to ensure our country's well-being, its prosperity, its economic investments, its trust in the judiciary, is to bring the judge's assurance. Mr. President, a number of measures have been needed by the Justice Department after the implementation of the world's perspective-changing practices in 2018 and the lack of confidence in law and democracy, a number of reform packages have been prepared in a row by the Justice Department, but reform packages have unfortunately not given confidence in the market because the content of the packages that have already been released are the issues that our Constitution and our laws have already secured. Most of the problems in Turkey are due to practical errors, and the reason for their application errors is that judges and prosecutors cannot make peaceful and comfortable decisions because of political pressures. You destroy at night, the court will come after us, which the Minister of Justice has expressed in the Ministry of Justice, our guide is the law, our course is the law, our guide is the law. Let us do it, let the law come from behind. Let the law walk from the front, and let us adjust ourselves according to it. It is the understanding of the state of law. It has been a valuable response to the state of law, but illegal practices have not ended, despite these statements. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers will be separated from the professions of judges and prosecutors in the power of the party, and the Council of Judges and the Council of State will be divided into two. Job acceptance is strictly based on merit. The judge and prosecutor will surely end the interviewing system, which creates favourability and torpedo perception in their exams. Forensic law enforcement will be established, law enforcement exams will be a priority for law school graduates. The inequity of independent justice, the founding element of the judiciary, the social and economic situation of lawyers, is pathetic. Young lawyers who want to meet their economic woes are forced to work under minimum wage in other lawyers' offices, while such studies are considered to be the only thing that graduates of law schools who have graduated far above the need as lawyers, while young lawyers who want to meet their economic woes are forced to work under minimum wage. A new law on law shall be passed to improve the economic level of lawyers, to regulate the working conditions, end the multi-bar system that eliminates social peace and solidarity among lawyers. The charge of the CMC will be equal to the price of a lawyer. Free lawyers' pensions are around $2,000. This amount is below the age of starvation. There will be a pension arrangement worthy of the practice of a lawyer. There will be 4800 additional indicators, administrative compensation, special service compensation arrangements to meet the demands of our public defenders for their rights. Sacrificed bodyguards will be transferred to safety classes, without discrimination in the rights of court employees. Mr. President, the ministers, the valued MPs, adopted the Copenhagen Critters in 2002 during the work of the European Union when the EC PARTY took office. His views, opinions, and appearance of respect for the state of law have been supported by all states, and, as a result, our country has been given capital flow. With a massive capital flow, our country can be invested and accepted as a reliable country, and further development has taken place. The foundation of this development is law and trust, which means that our constitution and laws at the time have been established to ensure that our country is trusted in economic and legal areas as a result of the government's practices. In 2018, however, the message given to the world by the presidential government system was that one man's administration would be implemented in our country. The system established in Turkey has shown signs that outside the law and Constitution, it will be a government that does not respect democracy. Therefore, economic balances have been turned upside down. As a matter of fact, in applications, the prediction has been confirmed and the wrong done is persistent. Mr. President has stated that he has written the book of the economy and has ruled the economy himself. This is carried out by the President of the Independent Central Bank as he wishes. It has been seen by the entire world in our country with no guarantees of law and investment. As a result, our country has been cut out of investmentable countries. There may have been some internal sympathy for the announced reform packages, but for foreign investors, the trust in law and economics in our country cannot be restored. External forces, foreign investors see reforms made by power as demonstrations. Therefore, capital taps have been cut, economic breakouts, imbalances, and collapses. The economic failure of our country's decline in law has been described by the power as an economic war of salvation, while those who criticise failure have been described as a mandarin. It must be said that the Battle of Salvation was written a hundred years ago in life, in blood, in glory, in glory. Today's failure is extremely wrong and inappropriate to compare with the Salvation War, and for critics it is not born to label the mandarin. This approach of power is a sign that failures will be insisted on, but there is no other way to resolve the solution but to establish the common mind. For the common mind, the presidential government system, which contradicts this term, must be changed and transferred to the improved and strengthened parliamentary system. World capital seeks a place to evaluate its money; it is ready to go to any country that provides law, trust, justice, democracy. Today, there is enormous money in the world, but Turkey does not come to Turkey because it does not provide that trust. The ruling party will establish rule of law, trust in justice, and democracy. Mr. President, good lawmakers, justice is essential for society to live together, safe, peaceful, peaceful lives. In addition to the fair treatment of individuals living in a country, all rulers and institutions of the state have to perform their duties without leaving justice. Therefore, the ultimate provider and protector of justice are the rulers of the state and state. Is it possible, though, that those who rule the state and state today are perfectly able to bring justice to justice? Mr. President, we can't or won't be like those before us when we arrive. No one should wonder, if a wolf crosses a sheep on the side of the Dicle, I fear that I will be the judge of his speech, not the political one, but the moral one, we will always keep Omar's justice in mind, and I promise you, we will never leave the path of Omar.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0328par0115	No, it's not Omer, it's Omar.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0327par0116	▪ We will not allow court-order cases. We will rethink the legal system in accordance with the principles of democracy and equality. With a free mind, a free conscience, a system of justice above politics, we will work for a fair Turkey where our citizens will feel safe in every way. Everyone is innocent until proven innocent. And the crime is personal. We will not contaminate its basic principles. Let not your hatred of a people who are gathered in the Qur'an lead you to injustice. We will not feel a rematch in our spiritual world. We're going to be lawyers for every part of our society, every one of our people, and we're going to be prosecutors for ourselves. First we'll say "I" and then we'll all happily see that when justice is established, when justice is done, when everyone feels safe, everything will be fine and Turkey will be fine.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0329par0118	Yes, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0327par0119	I have a word with the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court, if you're going to take this the wrong way, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court don't come back like the Yemen deserts; they don't come back. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] I wish our budget to our nation, to our state, to our Justice Department, to be blessed, and to honor.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0329par0122	The next is Mr. Dursun Atash. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0330par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party Group regarding the budget of 2022 of the National Ministry of Defence; I salute the great Turkish nation, our heroic army, and the Veterans Assembly. Starting with my words, Commander-in-Chief Ghazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades, I ask God's mercy and thank our veterans, who have been martyred in the fight against national defense and terrorism. Dear MPs; the founder of our republic, our immortal commander-in-chief, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, as said: The victories and past of the Turkish army begin with the history of humanity. So as the Good Party, we have always been sensitive about national defence issues. We saw it over politics, and we voted yes to the budgets of the National Defence Ministry, the General Command of the gendarmes, the Coast Guard Command, the Security General Directorate, the National Intelligence Service. We will continue this attitude today, but we will also voice constructive criticism in the interest of our country and our nation. The national Defence Ministry's budget for 2021 was 61.4 billion dollars, while it increased by about 30 per cent to 80.4 billion liras. This increase of about 19 billion is above annual official inflation rate, but given the loss of value against dollars this year, compared to the actual inflation, there is actually not an increase, but a decrease. The national Defense Ministry budget for 2021 was $8.2 billion at the time, while the budget for 2022 fell to $5.8 billion today, so it's a $2.5 billion drop. As a result, although the budget for the Ministry of National Defense may seem to have been increased, there is no actual increase. The national Ministry of Defence budget has also shown a stable decline in years. According to this, the ministry's budget rate was 6.9 per cent in 2003, while its share in the budget was estimated at about 4.6 per cent in 2012, at 5.2, at 2019 and 2020, at 4.5 in 2021, at about 4.6 per cent in the absence of 2022 and in the corruption budget. Although the Turkish army is the world's 9th most powerful army, NATO's 4th army, it ranks 15th in defence spending in the world. Although NATO has decided to allocate at least 2 per cent of the GDP for defence spending by member states, this rate has not yet been achieved in our country. If we want to continue to stay in this difficult geography, the Turkish army must always be prepared, the defence budget must be increased. Dear lawmakers, we can achieve our dream of strong military, strong Turkey by putting more budgets into national defence, by increasing local and national investments in our industry. That's why we need to strengthen our defense industry, minimize external dependency. When this wasn't done, we all saw what happened, we got an S-400, we can't use it, the warehouse rots, we're pulled from Project F-35, they won't even give us back the money we paid. The total cost of F-35 and S-400 projects to our country is $3.8 billion. The National Defence Ministry's total budget of 2022 is $5.8 billion. So the cost of two projects is 65 per cent of the national ministry budget alone. No one has the right to throw away people's money with false policies, it's a shame it's a sin. On the other hand, because of the S-400/s left to rot in the warehouse, our country is being sanctioned by CAATSA, a US-based senator who is a Turkish enemy, offering the F-35s to Greece. The situation in which the Republic of Turkey's reputation has fallen is pathetic, including the billions of dollars we've lost. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, as you can see, it is not possible to consider national defence issues independent of economic developments and foreign political relations. Mistakes and failures in foreign policy are about the size of damage to our national security. Not much, until just a few months ago, the United Arab Emirates -- which have been reported to be the financing of the July 15 coup attempt -- are now our friends -- are now being written that the United Arab Emirates will share in the problems such as Syria, the Mediterranean, Libya and Qatar. You received the Crown Prince of the United Arab Emirates, which we accused of coupting together with 10 billion dollars because he said he was going to invest. After the tank paletin was sold to Qatar, will you now sell ASELSAN to the United Arab Emirates? Our National Defence Minister said that the United Arab Emirates had supported some terrorist groups in Syria, Iraq, the PKK, the DEAS, the YPG. Now that our national security has been defamed, did the United Arab Emirates become your friends, just as Sisi the coupist in Egypt is your friend? We don't mind your friendship with the governments of our geography. But one day the issue of national security is external forces. How can we believe you and trust you the next day? Just as my brother Assad was in Syria in the process of turning into Killer Esed, it falls to our heroic army, as it has always been, to clean up the consequences of your wrong policies. Dear lawmakers, 80 per cent of the AKP's defence industry is local. I wish that ratio were real, and we'd be happy to congratulate him, just like in SIHAs. But there's a ratio here that's really far away, that's given to create total perception. Is there a local plane? No. No domestic motors, no domestic submarines, no domestic tanks, critical to the defence industry. The tank that was sold to Qatar would be produced at the Tank Palet Factory, and it would be built at the Tank Palet Factory in ten months after the President had given a definite date thirty-six months ago. Thirty-six months have passed; has anyone seen or heard? No. Even armored vehicles aren't 100% local. In this case, what data is based on and referred to as 80 percent indigenous? I think TÜK calculated this 80 percent rate. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish army has a structure with themes in a historical continuity. However, during the AKP period, the army's regulations were ignored, starting with Ergenekon and continuing with July 15th, without thinking, the basics of our army were basically dynamite. The coup attempt by a group of traitors within our army has been tried to cost the entire army and the heroic Turkish army has been punished. The strict chain of command and command between the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff has been broken. The Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff have been stripped of their powers and given to the Ministry. Even the power of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to appoint officers and petty officers has been removed from their hands, and that authority has been given to the National Department of Defence Chief of Staff. The officers and petty officers asking for transfers are already looking for pull from the political party officials. On the other hand, he was linked to the National Defence University, where military schools raised him officers, where he became the chancellor of a civilian professor, who was cut off from the hierarchy of the Black, Sea and Air Force Commands. The army's military military officers, generals and admirals, have been transformed into institutes, given civilian managers. Gen. Gen. General Command and Coast Guard Command have been linked to the Ministry of Interior. The president has been authorized to remove any officer or general he wants. With the approval of the Minister of the Army's arms and equipment, it has been enabled to be transferred to the Police General Directorate and the MIT President. Even the Chief of Religious Affairs has stepped ahead of the Chief of Staff in protocol. It is possible to extend this long list further. Dear lawmakers, the bill will be very, very heavy if our army's historical history, dignity, discipline, national structure and integrity are ignored in any regulation regarding the TSK. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the military commanders, it is clear that civilian or institutions will damage the integrity between these structures. The results of appointments, promotions, discipline and judicial procedures, not principles, merits and licenses, are fixed with bombs that fell on our heads on July 15th. And I'd like to address the Minister here: Mr. Minister, as a cadet, you must fight effectively with the new communities and sects that are said to have been formed within our army as a Joint Chiefs of Staff of this heroic army. You shouldn't leave transfers, promotions and exams to these structures and politics; you'll suffer the plague. The TSK should be kept above and beyond all political debates and political accounts. Politics, sects, sects, and congregations within the army should never be allowed to build, and integrity and driver's license must be fully observed. In terms of age and MGK, the Constitution must be acted accordingly. We also have military high schools, military schools, military academys, NCO training schools, the brains and backbone of our army, which were founded in 1845. There's no state in the world but us, who owns such a large army and doesn't have a military hospital. Therefore, the military medical academy and military hospitals that bring modern medicine to Turkey must be reopened. (Applause from the party's ranks) Military education, health, gendarmes, Coast Guard and all other parts must be added back to the royal body. Precious MPs, Turkish Armed Forces officer, petty officer, expert police officer, expert sergeants, specialists, privates, and Mehmetchik have been the most important source of power in the Turkish nation. All of our military personnel serving shoulder-to-shoulder on every level of the Turkish Armed Forces have different problems waiting to be resolved. Therefore, from his officer to his civil servant, there is a need for a staff law to solve the problems completely. With the arrangement to bring in, the issue of the major's salary and severance package should be permanently resolved from the officer's degree, the office and the severance issue, from the concerns of contracted personnel to the future. If you don't solve these problems, we'll solve them as a good party. According to our party programme, the General Staff will be linked to the Ministry of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The commander-in-chief will be committed to Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Certain arrangements will be made for the Chief of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in person. TSK's general staff, force, army, corps formation will be restructured. Military hospitals, military factories and shipyards that have been abandoned by the Turkish army will be reinstated into the army. The GATA-based military health system will be restored. The military schools will be reopened by our centuries-old institutions, which raise qualified staff to feed the army. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0331par0146	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0330par0147	In addition, while the military judiciary is being re-established, the Supreme Court and the Court will form expert agencies in the military field, and the staff's problems will be resolved completely. This is all due to our heroic army as the Good Party, our promise to the great Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, in the power of the party in the first election, Mr. President Coral Akşener said, we will free Turkey from the loneliness of Turkey, which, by a national, respected, consistent, peace-oriented and realistic policy, aims for peace in the world and in our region, which plays an active role in the interests of our nation and state, through a policy that embraces the understanding of the strong state at the table. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need one more minute.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0332par0152	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0330par0153	Finally, I would like to add that the heroic Turkish army is an army that invades its most sacred land, some Hindus, some cannibals, some or other troublemakers, who carry their enemies on their backs and treat them because they're wounded. The Turkish army has never left behind human rights violations, tortures; it has always been like this yesterday and today, and it will be like this tomorrow. The Turkish army has always been the expected loyal Turk, so it is no one's right to frame the Turkish army. [[BEHIND the party lines (Bravo) the voices, the applause]] I hereby ask that the National Ministry of Defence's budget for 2022 be good for our army, and I salute the heroic Turkish army, the great Turkish nation and the Gazi Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0332par0157	First word on behalf of the individuals is İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Çelebi.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0333par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start talking about our martyrs. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, so far we've made the citizens watch the fighting, the noise. You know what we lost? Our rationality. Turkey is stuck between those who want to stay in power, and those who want to come to power, no matter what. It's a story of those who can't lead and those who can't hope. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have a word with the groups. First, I call on power: we can't produce it, and now it's making money that doesn't produce it anymore. I'm an economist. You said, with one man's rule, you've disabled integrity, planning and the common mind. Mr. President of the Central Bank. You said you didn't leave a reliable institution. I don't respect the decision of the court. You said, "You've put the safety of the law on the shelf." The world is greater than five. You said, you sentenced Turkey to five contractors and five wholesalers. You can't sell 90 years of republican gains like fathers and fight economic survival today. You say, "How about fighting for me?" You say, "Let's erase interest in double debt, student loan debt, trade debt." You've broken export records in agriculture, Mr. Minister, not Hassan, but Hans. Raw milk supply is low, and the slaughterhouses are getting milk mixed in right now. In the intubation of livestock, 20 percent, more calfs, goats and lambs than imports. We're the last generation to do farming, and it's a national security issue. In Turkey, the dead are now looking at the living, people are trying to survive with the legacy of their mother's father; the executive files have reached 22 million; the citizens' psychology has fallen from 10 people, and 5 have been talking to themselves; young people can't get into work because they don't have 90 uncles; sick, travellers, future generations are born with vehicle guarantees; public corruption is accompanied by poverty, Turkey can't be governed. I want to address the CHP administration, and I want to do it from the heart: the Republican People's Party was born fighting imperialism. I'm just saying, don't leave Kobytepe, or Duatepe, or Metristype, just to come to power. Today, imperialism has established its headquarters in Kandil. Don't be surprised. Do not give way to the separatist mentality, the separatist mentality without the base of the vote, to these stickers with the problem with Ataturk, because they will not keep arithmetic accounts that you have made by compromising the founding values, and unfortunately it will be Turkey who will lose. Know this: We are the rest of the country in the morning. We are acting with understanding. We need the party, the association, not the newspaper, but the republic and the Ataturk. First we need principles, first we need to stop. Does he need a hand? I do. Get out on the street, nobody trusts politicians now. Let's say, let's say that Turkey is greater than 5. Let's say, let's break down the dictatorships of the only man in the parties, let's open the way for Turkey. Here's the proposal for the law, let the president choose members, let the term of the president's office be two terms -- if he can't make the first party. I say let's leave the women's quotas, let's do one woman, one man, and a zipper system, let's clear the way for our women.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0334par0168	That's what we are.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0333par0169	We're doing it all by the bylaws, and we demand that you do it. I'm speaking to the HDP administration. Look, when you put the word "peace" together with the baby killer, you lose it, you lose it when you say "Katliamist" to the Turkish nation, you lose when you look for a country in the country, you lose when you vote "no" to the imperialism, you lose when you put the vote on the bread, you lose when you see the terrorist and Mehmetchik.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0335par0171	Bravo, bravo.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0333par0172	We are united in democracy, where you are approaching national interests, but where you are approaching terrorism, we are millions of light-years away from you. As Turkey's most democratic party, we, as part of the Country Party, are the children of the national struggle, national sovereignty, Ataturk republic; we oppose the rule of one man; we believe that those who do not practice democracy in their party will not bring democracy to the country; we say that the motherland, the country, the country of blue, the country of heaven is a whole; we are a member of the Turkish nation; we are a member of the Turkish nation; we say that being a part of the Turkish nation does not harm anyone's Turkish society, Kurdish, Kurdity, Christianity, Christianity, and Aleviality; we are on the side of our nation; we are a nation, and we are a nation of our nation; we are on the side of our nation; we are on the side of our nation; we are a siege; we are a nation; we are by our nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are by our nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are by our nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are by our nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are by our nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are by our nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we see a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation; we are a nation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0336par0174	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0333par0175	In final words, as the Country Party, we will not give up these principles; we will stand alone, if necessary, we will stand upright, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0336par0176	Dear MPs, now Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Bekir Pakdemir. Here you go, Mr. Pakdemirli.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0337par0179	Mr. President, I'd like to present the very valuable members of our Veteran Assembly to discuss the budget of our Ministry for 2022. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. I wish our budget would be a blessing in the name of our country and nation. Dear lawmakers, the common agenda of this century has now become our common agenda, with the effects of climate change, drought, natural disaster, migration, and the short and long-term effects added to these over the past few years. We're always talking about agriculture, over-politics -- here we have the Minister of Defense -- as important as the defence industry. It's a strategic sector. It's become identical with national security. Of course, it's the power that's in charge of this in the first degree, but all of society's shareholders should be contributing to it, and since this is a matter of national security, I think we should approach agriculture just as we approach our army, as we approach important issues. So what I'd like to say here in particular is that farmers in all countries are getting older, and we're getting 55, and Japan is 67. So, should we be attracting our new shareholders to this area? I need it. But imagine there's a mass that doesn't vote for us as well as a non-voting audience, and it's got to get in there and it's got to be political. So here, all the parties, all the opposition, all the power and society, all the civil society, everyone is a participant in this. As much as the responsibility of power, other NGOs and opposition have a responsibility, I would like to remind you. In the 20th century, we spent a year fighting underground resources. In the 21st century, we see together a field where we can fight agriculture, food and water. We had the pandemic in 2020, we had an economic fluctuation all over the world and all over the country, and the whole world and all countries -- including Turkey -- gave a big test, and we're still giving it. And in most countries, there's been production, logistics and access problems, so markets are empty, shelves are empty, people go to the markets, and they've seen even shortages of food supplies that they're going to take home, and it's been going on for years, months and sometimes. There are problems in England today, problems in America, problems in China, problems in Italy, problems in many European countries. Turkey and the world, unfortunately, have had to live beyond 2021 climate change all the years. The most affected areas are agriculture, forest and water. So here -- if you put the pandemic aside -- the most important areas of climate change are that, if there's a flood, we've had forest fires because of the weather, we've had droughts. We've prepared a precautionary package for our 651,000 farmers, which is $2.6 billion, in an effort to support our farmer as much as possible about the drought. We're going to start paying this $2.6 billion from the second half of the range. One of the most important things about drought is water. We've set aside 300 million on pressure irrigation this year, and next year we're going to have a much better number for it. We will continue to work in 2022, as we did yesterday, in order to overcome the hardships of all these risks. In the last 19 years and with the relief of the government system of the presidency, we have produced a good strategic planning and a efficient and sustainable resource; we have created a strong agricultural production infrastructure; we have secured food from the field to the table. In a truly advantageous geography, we are in a geography where continents intersect; we are able to reach 60 percent of the world at a four-hour flight distance. It's a very important thing, and we're the leaders in our territory, and we have a say in the world. Now, members of lawmakers, of course, I've been listening to the speakers here all morning. Of course, we took a lot of advantage, but especially if the speakers' speeches were more analytic, more infertile, or lacking, we waited for some solutions to present their shortcomings with solution proposals, which, frankly, I didn't see in general. I think a preacher from the Good Party has made some suggestions...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0338par0187	Mr. Naci...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0337par0188	But other than that, we didn't have a friend who had a lot of suggestions.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0339par0189	Then you haven't heard, you haven't listened to the CHP MPs.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0337par0190	Now, how do the high-value lawmakers support agriculture? The country's policy of support is usually two-way; it either takes action, supports or does not receive intervention. Together with the presidential government system, with increasing support, we have started a right policy of taking action. But in addition to all of that, we've established and brought together a system that we call five of them in one place, along with our effective intervention policy. Now, agricultural support. In 19 years, we paid $396 billion in real agricultural support. Since 2017, our support has increased from 12.9 billion to 26 billion. Now, some of the speakers said, "Why are the supports coming a year behind?" I want to remind our orators here that the support is a year behind because we support production. Now, since 2006, 465,000 jobs have been provided to our KKYDP and TKDK additional 465 000 farmers, our villagers, and a support of $24 billion has been paid. It's a one-percent issue of national income that is constantly discussed, and it doesn't bother me personally that it's being talked about. But now, when we look at the OECD numbers, everyone can look at the OECD here and say: 1.61 percent is the first country in the OECD countries to divide the share of the GDP into agriculture.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0340par0194	Hey, you're doing the same trick, it's always the same. Every year you say OECD, it's all wrong, it's all wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0341par0195	Listen, listen and learn!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0342par0196	Lift them up, lift them up, see how many of them they have, 20 of them?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0341par0197	Listen, learn; he's telling you, listen.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0343par0198	Yes, now...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0344par0199	OECD considers market prices, real support...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0345par0200	Where is he? He's showing off.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0343par0201	Mr. President, it's not supposed to be that way.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0346par0202	Tell us, go on.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0347par0203	Minister, you tell us, you tell us. People are listening, and so are we.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0348par0205	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0349par0206	Well, now, look, the first one is agricultural support, we counted that. Initiations, with a very good policy in our presidential government system, we have satisfied our farmer, with producer-friendly policies, with prices announced before the harvest...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0350par0207	People are dumping their shit.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0349par0208	We took care of the sweat and the hard work.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0350par0209	People are dumping their shit.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0349par0210	Now, the speakers have been here all morning saying, sir, that in May you announced a price...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0351par0211	Mr. Secretary, wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0350par0212	People are unloading their goods.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0351par0213	Yeah, Congressman, it's no use to your party screaming from there, it's no use to you. Why are you yelling? Don't shout, stop. I'm not just saying this for you, I'm saying this to all the lawmakers yelling. Time from the ruling party, from time to time...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0352par0214	Mr. President, stop time, stop time.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0351par0215	Don't, don't, it's no use to you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0353par0217	Well, now, the speakers said: you announced a price in May, that was the price in November. Now, the price we announced when we announced it in May is above the world prices, the condition of the exchange in May is not the same as the price of the commodity in May, so if the farmer kept it, he already sold it for a high price. The number we explained there was a number that wouldn't victimize our farmer and would cover their costs, and we explained a number above the world's prices.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0354par0218	Why didn't you explain the price of almonds, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0353par0219	We took care of our farmer's sweat, his hard work, and we pleased him. Now, I'd like to show you a couple of examples here. Price status on selected products. Look, for this harvest season, our farmer has sold the wheat for 1,71. On average, he has sold it for $2.5. He sold the barley for 1,85. He sold it for 2.36. He sold Egypt at 1,48, and sold it at an average of 2.60.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0355par0221	Did you also get these numbers from TÜİK, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0353par0222	Everyone needs the institutions of this government, people. You can't come to power, but if you come to power one day tomorrow, we need TÜİK, we need the forest, we need the others.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0355par0223	That's not what the farmer says.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0356par0224	Did you leave a forest, forest?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0357par0225	You'll have to ask the people who burned down the forest.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0358par0226	Look, the chickpea cost 5,19, sales 6. Mercenary costs 6,23, sales 7.80. The cost of sunflowers is $3, the sale is $5.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0356par0227	. Come to the nut, the nut. The nut is $27.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0358par0228	I'll come to the nut, I'll come to the nut. Look, nuts cost $17, sale of $26.50.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0359par0230	Mr. Secretary, side by side, no sound.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0356par0231	No, it costs $27, you're lying.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0360par0232	Are you talking about the nuts in Urbana?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0356par0233	The cost of nuts is $27, and you're definitely giving false information.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0234	Look at it this way, and here's the nuts, you see.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0356par0236	The nut cost is $27.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0237	Guys, give me a break. Now, does our farmer have any concerns about the future? Of course I do. Did the cost go up, the input prices go up? It's up. Has it increased all over the world? It's up. But the rise in us is behind the whole world, my friends. So we had a very serious struggle by subsidizing and lowering or removing figures from the foreign trade regime when necessary from the institutions of intervention with a very serious struggle, and we made the Turkish farmer and Turkish consumer the least affected. Of course, our manufacturer has a problem, of course he's concerned about the future, but we all need to get rid of these concerns together, don't we? So what we think is, if you listen, I'm going to say some things about the future: the price of commodity-- what happened in the world, and how much did these commodity prices go up? There wasn't much in the world, but the stock price went up because the world's funds, which had a lot of money, went into these assets. One of the risks for the farmer is that the price of the commodity goes backwards, but it doesn't look like it for the 2022 harvest period, because either way, the cost of fertilizer, diesel and other costs is going to be high in the world, and the farmer who produces these high costs will be selling his goods without harm. I don't see the possibility of our farmer doing any harm over the next few years. On that day, if the cost is five, and if the price is five, ten, it will be in the market. As always, we will announce our manufacturer friend prices, and we will continue to do so. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, look, I'm talking about math: subsidies, agricultural loans... loans are always...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0362par0242	Two times two is not four, Mr. Secretary. Sometimes it's fifteen, sometimes it's negative thirty.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0243	Our farmers, they ended up like this, into something like this, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Since 2002, the debt has increased considerably since 2002. True, the debt has increased more since 2002, but in 2002 our farmer was in the hands of a loan shark. We rescued them from the loan shark and look in 2017, illegal domestic product 189, last year 337, how much has it increased? It's up 78%. How much are the agricultural loans in 2017? 97 billion. So, how much is 2020? 141 billion. How much has it increased? 45,4; which means that our farmer is now making money and is making productive payments, reducing his debt. The GDP rate of the total loans is down from 51 per cent to 42 per cent in 2017, so as described, there's no picture here like you drew it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0363par0244	Mr. Secretary, that's what the farmer says.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0364par0245	Tell me about the statistics.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0246	Now, recycling on agricultural bank and agricultural loan co-operative loans. Only 55 per cent of the loan received in 2002 returned, while 94 per cent returned in 2020. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, what did we count? First, support; second, takeover; third, subsidies agricultural loans; fourth, income protection insurance. It's a new thing for our coven, a new thing for all our friends. In the United States, close to 85 per cent of agricultural insurance is income protection insurance. What does that mean? Our farmer buys an insurance policy, some of which the government pays for, and the state says: "If your income is under this, I'll give you the difference." This is really something like that in developed countries. We added this to their other instruments. Pilot studies complete. We began to apply it in Iconium. As of 2023, we're going to increase both the number of products and the number of geography, and we're going to start spreading it across the country. One more thing, I'd like to get some questions from all of our lawmakers' groups about contract production. We have a legal arrangement here. We have some flaws in this legal arrangement. The completion of these shortcomings and contracting production are also useful in terms of the farmer's financing, in terms of price stability, in terms of preventing efficiency losses. It's a voluntary system. There is a contractual production of a serious plant production that reaches 85 per cent in the United States. As of last year, last year and this year, we had a serious drought. It's true that we're going to have less production this year than last year, but as of last year, we've broken the record of plant production in the history of the republic by producing 126 million tons of plant production. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) This success is a note that will go down in history, showing our farmer's hard work and effort, as a result of a good plan. Seedry's always talked about, and it's always been criticized, but it's something we've given 4.5 billion support to in the last 19 years. Our seed production has increased by 8.5 times. Our seed exports have increased by 9.5 times and we produce 1.2 million tons and export 162 million dollars in seed exports to 86 countries. Our farmer did it, our industry did it. We've also paid 92 billion dollars in animal support in 19 years, and in the last three years we've paid $26 billion in support, and we've come to 18.3 million in total, up 85 per cent in total, and we've come to 57.4 million in less than 80 per cent. We are the 2nd in Europe, the first in Europe, and the first in Europe. This success is not a final destination for us, but an endless journey for the welfare of our nation, for tomorrow. I'll tell you one simple thing: we took 61,000 tons of fishing in 2002; it was 470,000 tons in 2021, and 270,000 tons in 2017. From 2017 alone to today, there is almost twice as much growth; we are going to talk about the numbers. We did 1.4 million checks on food control in 2020. I want to thank our Veterans for their imitation and battery, and we've made a good law. Here, the preachers present a review of the news audit, but very few of our audits are reported, because they appear in the newspaper. We're also going through cross-checks on news inspections, so we're taking the staff of one province with another, with a different control system. Not all of our inspections are like that, and in this sense, our successful friends continue to study food control. RD innovation is important. We're 60 institutes, 2,100 researchers, 2,000 projects per year. We're spending $1 billion on this. We've turned the agricultural plain into a land site for the protection of 92 million demarcation sites. At the head of the presidential government system was declared 203 plains with the law issued by our Parliament in 2017 and 2018, and we declared the 226 plains in three years, our total 429 plains were declared, and our goal here is 500. We're always giving you some numbers that have been reduced to land out of agriculture, so the land that applied to us, got our signature out of agriculture, was 140,000 hectares in the state prior to 2002, and was reduced to an average of 60,000 hectares in 2003-2018, with an average of 60,000 hectares in the year, while we took the proper stance in 2017 and the Ministry in the last three years, reduced to 14,000 hectares per year. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to get into some forestry in Turkey. In the matter of treeing, Turkey is one in Europe, four in the world, FAO data. Again, we came to the 27th ranking in the FAO data, the 46th ranking of forest existence. On November 11th, we met with ministers and representatives from 80 countries to keep our promise to plant 252 million trees, to keep our promise to plant saplings, and by the end of the year, we would have finished 252 million plants. Our fight against fires is an effective battle that goes up every year. For example, when we had 27 helicopters in 2020, we had 39 helicopters in 2021. For example, no one's willing to risk this number of helicopters while they're being criticized. We entered with 3 amphibians, 1 aircraft and 4 UAVs, but in this acute period, Turkey has significantly increased its number of aircraft to 18 aircraft, thanks to the reputation of our government. It's the first time we've been using 162 surveillance towers, 324 cameras, and using drones outside of military purposes, we're interfering with the fires in a state-of-the-art state-of-the-art way. Our first response time has been down from 40 minutes to 12 minutes. As you all know, the whole world was shaken by forest fires in 2021. In 15 days, 16 major fires broke out in Turkey, 554 we had to fight the fire. In the meantime, we put our fleet on 70 helicopters, 18 planes. Just as we helped other countries, we sought help from other countries, and help came. I'm afraid we've been exposed to various anomalies through the aircraft, whether or not the intervention was enough or not. How do you plan the capacities? No matter what capacity you plan for 544 fires, you may be incomplete. Was that really the case? We encountered a series of fires, a chain of disasters, beyond normal statistical expectations. I call it a disaster. Maybe we had that July 15th among the commons.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0365par0261	Perhaps a great incompetence, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0262	- Is that enough now, or not? - What's Spain? Spain has 73 vehicles, but you can't compare pears to apples. They have a one-time drop capacity of 202 tons. There are 28 million hectares of forest, about 22 of us. We have 42 vehicles, 154 tons of water. 3-5 percent appear to be behind normal capacity, but we have a very large land power. The land power here is more important than anything else. It's very wrong to assess forest fires through the aircraft. Do America and Russia have the most powerful fleet in the world? Dominus. California was able to put out the fire after a hundred and three days of July 13th. 390,000 hectares burned. Canada had 6,525 forest fires, 3 million hectares have gone, 2.4 million hectares have gone to Siberia, 11 times the average area affected by Greece in the last ten years. In Australia -- not this year -- we all observed the fires that lasted two hundred and forty days last year. Unfortunately, in public, we had to fight the people who poured gasoline into the fire while trying to put out the fire.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0366par0263	Mr. Secretary, you watched the forest burn down!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0264	We tried to keep our forest service morale up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0366par0265	A little conscience, a little conscience.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0266	The most important element of our success is our forest heroes.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0367par0268	We're celebrating the forest heroes, too, Mr. Secretary. Because of those workers, the fire was extinguished, and you couldn't put it out, and the workers put it out.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0366par0269	If you had interfered in time, those fires would have gone out. You didn't intervene in time.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0361par0270	I wish our martyrs mercy again, from here, to our martyrs. We didn't start the fires, but we did. I wish our heroes mercy.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0368par0273	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0369par0274	Turkey's biggest fire, the biggest! Where did you put it out?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0370par0275	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0369par0276	You've seen it, Mr. Secretary! Come on, you've seen it!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0370par0277	We've all seen it, it's a shame! We were all there! It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0369par0278	We were there, we were there!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0371par0279	You watched and watched as the forests burned!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0372par0280	If it wasn't for those workers, it would have burned even more! Don't play politics on their backs.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0373par0281	We've seen the struggle of the forest service! It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0374par0282	We've got the fire under control. Ten neighborhoods burned down on the 2nd day you call it! Don't!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0375par0283	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0373par0284	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0376par0285	On the 2nd day, we controlled it. You said it took twelve days! It's a lie!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0373par0286	What's rude is what you do!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0377par0287	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0378par0288	We didn't start the fires, we died to put them out, dear! We died to put it out, learn to read a Fatiha first, read a Fatiha first, and then we'll talk.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0379par0290	You learn, you learn! On the 2nd day we took control of the fire. You said it took ten days, ten days!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0378par0291	First read a Fatiha and then... none of you were at those funerals! None of you were at those funerals! None of you did!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0380par0293	Our ministers were all there!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0378par0294	We all need our forest service; it is a respectable organization in the world, an organization that teaches 17 countries. Do politics in other areas. We have prepared the Work of the Forest Fires, and we have prepared all the plans for the past, and for the process, and for the latter.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0380par0297	We were there day and night! You're being rude!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0381par0298	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0382par0299	You weren't there!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0380par0300	We were there!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0382par0301	Shame on you! You were gone!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0383par0302	Why are you shouting!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0384par0303	What the hell are you doing? Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0385par0304	Shame on the forest staff! Shame on the staff who fought there! No thank you at all!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0386par0305	None of your business, brother!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0387par0306	We were there, us! You weren't there, we didn't see it!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0385par0307	We were there, us!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0388par0309	Don't move! Don't move!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0385par0310	Who the hell are you acting at?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0311	Congressmans, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0385par0312	We were there day and night! Who are you waving at? Who are you waving at, you rascal!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0313	What are you yelling about, bro? Wait a minute!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0390par0314	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0385par0315	Just say thank you! We were there!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0316	These screaming lawmakers...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0385par0317	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0318	Cemal Bey, Cemal wait a minute, friend... Now, these screaming lawmakers... once again, the very valuable group of vice presidents are following the process. The Vice President of our Republican People's Party's Precious Group is taking notes, and the other group is taking notes. Those screaming deputies of ours won't yell if they go backstage. Go, talk amongst yourselves, yell if you're going to scream. Don't keep the coven busy shouting. It's no use to you, it's no use to the party, it's just time-damaged behavior. And let me tell you something: why are you yelling at a congressman? Don't shout! I'm ashamed to say it. Come on, guys.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0391par0321	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0322	Mahmut Tanal, sit down, we'll evaluate.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0391par0323	The question I'm going to ask is...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0324	Yeah, what do you want? You have a group vice president, Tanal. I like you. Have a seat.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0391par0326	The Minister said: "Read Fatiha. You have made the country to read Fatiha.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0392par0327	Mr. President, can you do that when the Minister is on the stand? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0329	And why are you interfering, my friend? Why are you interfering? I say sit down. I say shut up. Everybody shut up, look, I'm ashamed of you right now. When I say shut up, don't.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0392par0331	The minister demands word on the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0389par0332	Mr. Cora, you've come, you've given a very good speech. Don't, don't, don't. Mr. Secretary gives you numbers, the group's vice presidents get their notes, what do you get by yelling? Quality's dropping. Look, I'm telling you from the bottom of my heart, a very valuable MP, a lady came in this morning, and my son said, "When there's a fight, run away from there." Is there any greater warning than that? You're yelling, there'll be men in the way, and you won't be able to fight, so get out, the floor's open. [[AK PARTY, HDP, HHP and GOOD Party rankings applauding]] Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0393par0336	Of course, it upsets me that when I'm giving numbers here, when I'm saying things, our precious oratories, our MPs, don't listen. Because maybe I'll say something, and maybe you'll be convinced. So it's really done here, our Forest Service is a good organization, and we all need this organization. I wish we could turn our lights on and off for our forest heroes, just like the great disaster that happened to us in health. Maybe we've had some miscommunications, too.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0394par0337	Let's give them a round of applause, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0393par0338	But in that acute period, my entire organization really worked hard, and I want to make it clear from here that even though my director of the forest, Antalya, was my order, 140-150 people entered a canyon and there was little chance of them surviving that canyon. Really, these heroes of ours worked so well. We need to keep this a little bit out of politics. We all need these trees; party A, party B, not party C, we all need them.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0395par0340	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0393par0341	If I can have another three or four minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0395par0342	You wrap it up in a minute, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0393par0343	If I could have another three minutes... thank you. Our preparation for 2022 is this: we continue our efforts to fight 20 planes and 55 helicopters, with a capacity of 10 tons to throw water. So far, in terms of water and irrigation investments, we've launched 613 dams, 271 drinking water, 1,475 irrigation facilities, and 8,800 facilities, many brand projects. In contrast, Turkey has grown 5.9 per cent in 2020; in the last three years Turkey has grown 38 times more than 27 countries in Europe, 5 times more than Germany, 7.6 times more than France, and 12.7 times more than the Netherlands.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0395par0346	Here, wrap it up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0393par0347	Again, agricultural employment is increasing, not diminishing. In 2008, there were 4,611,000 registered jobs, and now there are 5,11,000. The registered business name is 2 million 152 thousand in 2018, while 2 million 186,000 in 2022. Again, even though our agricultural product resources are 31 percent, we are 10 percent in the world in Europe in the 1st world; this is something that all of us should be proud of, 84 million should be proud of. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I had a lot more to tell -- but the ministry's budget of 2022 will increase by 25.5 per cent from the previous year to 64.6 billion dollars, 40 per cent to agricultural support, and another 37 per cent to investments -- so that's more than 75 per cent to heavy water investments.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0395par0351	You're packing, aren't you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0393par0352	I'm packing, I'm running out.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0395par0353	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0393par0354	This is the budget of the farmer, the manufacturer, the land, the water and the forest. I, in agriculture and in the forest, thank the shareholders and farmers and all the shareholders of this budget we've been working on with a new understanding of a new century. I want to thank Mr. President, our concerned ministers, our party group, the Cumhur Alliance, your valued deputies. I wish our 2022 budget was a blessing. I salute you all with love. God be with you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0396par0358	Now it's time for Mr. Abdulhamit Gül. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0397par0361	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm here today to present the budget for 2022 of our Ministry. On this occasion, first of all, I salute our beloved nation, our Veterans Assembly, all our MPs. Today is also World Human Rights Day. A more just world is possible. I wish that this meaningful day could be a source of awareness and new understanding at the point of racism, persecution and discrimination throughout the world. At the beginning of my words, yesterday, I begin by asking God's mercy for our heroic soldiers, who were killed by the treacherous attacks of terrorists in the Claw-Operation area, to offer their families and the Turkish Armed Forces their condolences; their souls rest in peace. Mr. President, good lawmakers, justice is the highest virtue, the highest value that sustains the earth and the sky. As heirs of a great civilization, we have always given justice a special and special importance. Our understanding of justice is that if a wolf lamb is on the edge of Dicle, it is a sense of justice that considers itself responsible. (APPLAUSE) It is a precious duty to wipe away the tears of the oppressed, to give those who deserve it, to put their consciences at ease with justice. In this respect, we believe justice is the indispensable condition for human survival and the most powerful foundation of the state. As Master Necip Fazil said, it is the right to justice, and it is essential that every branch of life and treatment be searched in this regard, not in simple courts. For every institution, every institution is a valid obligation in every aspect of life. Judicial justice is the last resort for justice, the last port of refuge for the victim. There is no doubt that the jurisdiction of the judiciary belongs to the supreme court. No one can share that authority, and no one can share that authority with anyone, and no one can share it with the group. We've all lived closely in the time when these facts were taken down, how the judgment turned into a vehicle, a tool of persecution. We lived on May 27th, we lived on September 12th, we experienced very painful examples on February 28th. Again, the wounds inflicted on the nation's sense of justice by militants, who have rented the mind of the people, are still fresh. We all know the famous word of the late Aliya. The forgotten genocide repeats it. We will never, ever forget the days of persecution that we have experienced in the past, in the hands of judges, guardians, in the back of the neck of the nation, and we will take every precaution to make sure that those examples never happen again, and we will continue our work with that conviction. The Human Rights Action Plan and Judicial Reform Strategy Document, which was shared publicly by our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in May 2019, was also shared by the public this year, is our road map in this sense. We prepared these documents by listening to each section, from different opinions and ideas, with an understanding of participation. So, with common sense, common goal, and consultation, we've identified this road map. We know exactly what we're doing and what we're going to do. We've talked to thousands of our citizens, we've met with academics, barmen, journalists, civil society organizations, we've listened to anyone who's saying that whatever their political opinion is, I have an opinion on this, and whatever reform you want, we've done it together with common sense. And what we've seen in our studies is that our nation is basically waiting from the judiciary that when I've been wronged as an equal, honorable, free citizen of this country, let justice take place, without delay, without delay, and without tiring me. From all these findings, we have continued to work decisively to make sure that law is on our side with our people. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, in many of the years we've left behind, we've been able to reach these goals in a significant way by the very precious members of our great House. On this occasion, along with the Cumhur Alliance, we passed these laws and again matured with the support of the highly valued members of our great Assembly. I'd like to personally thank the Veterans for their contribution to the Veteran Assembly. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] As you know, five judicial packages have been brought to life so far, and they will continue again. Of course, these regulations are not a magic wand; no one expects a result that will suddenly fix everything; such a thing is not possible; but reform is a process that is essential to continuity, and our will for reform in this regard is alive, fresh, and we remain determined. We're doing this work, like we're pedaling the Adeta bike. Without a doubt, the good law finds only life through good practice, and the best reform in this sense is the best practice, as a matter of fact. We also see the most valuable examples of good and right practice with very important arrangements to protect our people's honor, dignity, reputation. For example, the regulation and change of the right to remain unstained in 2017 at the CMK is a crucial provision for keeping human dignity in line. From the date the regulation was taken into effect, so far, my highly valued lawmakers, 482,000 reports have never been processed, and our citizens have never even heard of it, so they didn't even know there was a tip about 482,000 of our citizens, they haven't been informed, they haven't been informed. So a police officer has not been to the office of 482,000 of our citizens, his residence, if he is a worker, his factory, his office, and he has not been brought to the prosecutor's office unnecessarily. If we hadn't brought this arrangement, thousands of our citizens would have been victimized by unjust and unsubstantiated charges, either personal or other hostileities. A man lives on his rights. The honor of 84 million of our citizens, regardless of their beliefs, lifestyles, political views, is in trust with the state, and the main goal of the state of law is to protect and improve these rights that man has been born with, and we're doing all of this. (AK PARTY) That's what we've come up with in the fourth legal package in July. Basically, it's a matter of common interest for all of us. In the past, we all know how people used the law with their evidence, with their evidence, with their tapes, with their blackmails, with their assassinations, with their dignity, with their hangman's executions. We're trying to secure our legal system so that it will never allow this mentality to exist again. For example, aside from the alleged incident in which the indictments were brought into private life, the person is meeting with his family, and you are suing the person by charging him with other things besides the subject that make no sense. Look, in July, this Veteran Assembly took this off. Because, when we say dignity, when we say dignity, we say "A" party, "B," party, human being, wherever he was born, wherever he was born, he's human; his lifestyle, his way of life, doesn't change the way he looks at him, that law is created with that understanding.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0398par0372	Does the Home Secretary know about this?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0399par0373	He did it noble, noble. Süleyman Noble did it last week.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0400par0374	Does the Home Office know?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0401par0375	And again, in the acquittal hearings, the communications records of the non-objects were being cancelled, and we brought an order to cancel the acquittals.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0402par0376	What kind of evidence are hidden witnesses? What kind of evidence is a covert witness testimony taken in false statements?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0401par0377	Trust in our citizens is essential, and the possibility of a commitment to freedom was one of the key arrangements for the reputation of our citizen. In this case, we also halted the arrest of one of our citizens at the airport, at the hotel, at the road search. With the regulation in effect -- a new app, a few months of practice, it's only been five months -- our 11,067 citizens have been released with a commitment. On his way to Germany with his family at Istanbul Airport, you have to testify in front of his children. He had to leave, he had to hijack his plane, and the children were treated as suspects, he had to be picked up at the hotel at 2:00 a.m., and we stopped them because we're moving on with our human-focused political understanding. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, in this frame, as you know, we set up a courthouse at Istanbul Airport, and our goal here was that our citizens again take advantage of the facilitating law. So far, 14,200 of our citizens have taken advantage of it. Next year at Sabiha Gökçen Airport, hopefully we'll start a courthouse again and also work at other airports. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the most decisive part of our criminal justice, our legal system's democracy and human rights report card. Therefore, the development of rights and freedoms is our unchanging priority. One of our critical innovations in this area is to provide a vertical path of appeal against the arrest warrants made by the judicial justices. Starting on 1 January 2022, the appeal of arrest sentences will be decided by the original criminal judges, a superior court. The arrest, as it is known, is not a means of punishment, but a measure, and with that understanding, in 2019, we put a maximum period of imprisonment in the first court package, and strengthened the principle that the judgment package would not be a crime for criticism. Because we believe that freedom of expression, criticism, opinion is the key element of the democratic state of law, and in this framework, with that understanding, we have brought this provision for the decision to block access to the Internet, not the entire website, but the cancellation of relevant content. Again, we've arranged for court decisions concerning freedom of expression to go through the Supreme Court review once after the litigation courts. In this sense, some 35,000 of our citizens have taken advantage of this arrangement, and while the files have been finalized, these files have gone to the Supreme Court, these studies have been conducted in terms of legal security. And again, the fourth judicial package has made important arrangements for the judicial control measure. The curfew is one of the measures of forensic control. He's going to a citizen's airport, and there's a restraining order against you in the court. At that point, he was learning, or a year, two years, three years, and there were these arrangements.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0403par0383	It can be done without a court order.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0404par0384	It's done without a court order, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0401par0385	The court's rulings lasted three years, five years, six years, seven years.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0405par0386	How did the Home Secretary explain this document, which was a confidentiality order?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0406par0387	You confiscated our passport without a court order.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0401par0388	But with the arrangement we've brought in here, the court is at least four months apart...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0405par0389	How did the Home Secretary explain the document with a confidentiality order?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0401par0390	Dude, you put a restraining order on a citizen, so I'm sorry, you're gonna have to look at this file every four months, and you're not gonna block this citizen's unfair access, travel ban.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0407par0391	No judgment, no judgment.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0401par0392	If it's serious, you'll have to look at it every four months. We've brought an arrangement. This is because of the important arrangement of our citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0408par0393	A woman who lives abroad, 72 years old, and still hasn't been filed. That is your disgrace.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0409par0394	Turkey, Turkey... tell me about Turkey. Tell me about Turkey, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0410par0395	How is his passport confiscated without a court order?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0411par0396	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been evaluated for many years in criminal prosecution. Of course, it's valuable, and the right to defend in that sense is a fundamental right, but it's also a right to a victim. Talk about Turkish prisons, Turkish prisons! And with that thought, we've concentrated on the study of healing the victim's wounds. In these works, which we have conceptualized as victim-oriented justice, our vision is the door of justice. It is the door of justice. It is open to all. It's our most basic goal for everyone to leave this door gladly. We tell our citizens that you are no longer alone in the courthouse. In this sense, in the year 2019, we expanded judicial negotiations, taking the first steps with the assistance of staff, specialists. We have allowed children who have been led to crime to be taken under expert partners in the statements and statements of women who have been victims of sexual crime, violence; in 105 courthouses, there are judicial interview rooms in this sense, and on average, over 40,000 victims' problems have been heard by experts and these studies have been done to prevent new traumas. In 2020, our Department of Judicial Support and Victim Services, again under the presidential decree, has been activated, and so far 20,000 citizens have been given this kind of advice and information activities in the courts by these newly established administrations.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0401	Let's go wherever this country is, it's not Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0411par0402	We took the victim's hand, we stood by him in the courthouse with expert support so he wouldn't feel alone, and we didn't leave him alone. We're doing our best to make sure that our citizen is left alone with a sense of burden, not a burden from the law. Again, the fight against violence against women is also an important part of our work.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0404	Then why is the stranger in the tomb?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0411par0405	With this relationship, I condemn any violence against the woman once again in the most powerful way.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0407	Tell me about Garib Gezer, Garibe Gezer. It was not twenty-four hours after the death of Garib Gezer.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0411par0408	Last year, with additional work...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0409	It has not been twenty-four hours since the death of Garib Gezer, Minister Garib Gezer! Make a statement, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0411par0410	... We've established domestic and female violent offices by the state's attorney general, and we've managed these files by prosecutors who specialize in them.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0411	Twenty-four hours after the death of a woman in Kandira Prison, make a statement, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0413par0412	Just a minute, Mr. Secretary. Look, your Group Chairman says shut up, you don't shut up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0414	Mr. President, it hasn't been 24 hours since a woman died!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0413par0415	But look, the Deputy Director of the Group tells you to shut up. You don't shut up. What are you figuring out right now?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0416	Twenty-four hours after the death of a woman in Kandira Prison, the Minister tells a story!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0414par0417	Oh, for God's sake, is there such a thing? There's no such thing as a preacher on the stand!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0413par0418	There's a paralegal in front of you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0419	I'm a lawyer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0413par0420	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0415par0421	Even though another arrangement was divorced, the crimes committed against the spouse have been increased as deterrents, as opposed to the present mate.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0412par0423	You encourage violence against women, you turn a blind eye, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0415par0424	Again, for children -- you know -- to perform for 90 years...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0416par0425	The theory's fine, but I need a little practice.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0415par0426	We couldn't bear to see the delivered child as a moving commodity; as a government, we made such an important arrangement as the Cumhur Alliance, and now parents don't pay to see their child.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0417par0428	Talk about suicide like murder, suicide like murder.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0415par0429	Mr. President, no citizen's time, labor, expectations, and rights are meaningless to us, very valuable, very important.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0418par0430	It was not twenty-four hours after the death of Garibe Gezer, in Kandira Prison. Make a statement as Minister of Justice, Mr. Secretary, don't tell a story.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0415par0431	It's our primary sensibility that justice can be done without delay.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0418par0432	You're telling a story!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0415par0433	Even if a late decision finishes the case, it doesn't bring justice to justice. So, later justice is not justice. We call it justice.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0419par0434	That's what we call it! We say it, you don't!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0418par0435	You don't bring justice, you bring death, death...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0415par0436	And with that understanding, we've initiated target time in the judiciary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0418par0437	It's been 24 hours since a woman died in Kandıra Penalty!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0420par0438	Mr. President, this is against the Civil Code, and they won't let us talk.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0421par0439	Oh, man, they talk soggy!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0422par0440	By implementing target time in the judiciary, we're going to ask our citizens...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0423par0441	If you have something to ask, ask the question-answer. You're disrupting our people.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0424par0442	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0422par0443	When our citizen goes to the courthouse with a target deadline, the prosecution or the court informs our citizens of how long it will take for this trial or the investigation to end, the citizen sees his way.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0425par0444	How did the Home Secretary explain the confidential case against you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0422par0445	Again, a series of reasonings and simple judicial procedures, in that sense...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0426par0446	Ask questions and answers.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0427par0447	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0422par0448	I'm being subjected to the violence of the HDP Group right now, so really.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0428par0450	You're not being violent; you're being questioned, you're being asked!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0429par0451	It's the violence that women do! It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0422par0452	January 1, 2020...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0428par0453	These are the facts, the facts!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0430par0454	Congressman, if you don't get the Minister to talk right now, I need to do a procedure; don't provoke me. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0431par0457	This is a Justice Minister who has passed a law against violence against her.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0432par0458	I'm not turning you on!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0430par0459	Oh, don't talk, wait a minute, look... your Deputy Director of the Group can't shut you up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0460	The practice of a year and a half in the classic trial ends in two weeks; the series of trials, the simple trial, has reached a crucial conclusion in this sense. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, again, have contributed a great deal to mediation in terms of the facilitator role of the law. In this framework, as a matter of fact, there's a culture of compromise in our society. In our community, reconciliation, shaking hands, the treaty is one of the values that make us who we are, and we see one of the best examples of that. Along with these practices, we have made business in 2018, commercial in 2019, a condition of mediation in consumer conflicts in 2020, and thus, from the beginning, 1 million,650,000 incompatibility agreements have been concluded, which clearly illustrates the importance of our nation's importance to compromise, the culture of our culture.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0434par0462	Do you realize that the rights of workers are being imposed in mediation?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0463	In addition to our emphasis on judicial expertise, we have also made important decisions about this, and as a special part, we are very interested in education and constant education. In this regard, we believe that a quality legal system, especially in the final analysis, is made up of quality lawyers, and for that, we continue our principled position on the number of law schools, and not on quantity, but on quality. Mr. President, we also continue our environmental practices, especially with applications such as UYAP, e-exposition, court, weekend notary, electronic notification. With electronic notifications alone, 51,500 trees were saved and 3,000 tons of paper were saved. We're continuing these environmental practices again. As we enter the new century of our Republic, we also build a new courthouse in Ankara, the capital of our republic. Our project work on this is finally over, and we're continuing the courthouse buildings in our other provinces. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, under the leadership of our President, we are walking with confidence in his 2023 goals, and we will take new steps in this framework, especially in the coming period of justice and facilitating law. For example, we will be able to apply to the Human Rights Compensation Commission in view of the damage caused by the long trial. So the victim of the trial, because it's taking too long, is the next time I'm a victim, I have to appeal to the court for compensation. He won't say it anymore. If a court-issued extension has been exceeded, as a state, as an executive, we can't accept it. We'll make an arrangement at the Ministry, in this sense, to compensate our citizens for their loss. Again, there are many different times when it comes to appeals, appeals, indictments, such as appeals to the upper courts. We all know that our citizens are even more victimized and have suffered loss of rights in the matter that even the practitioners are involved in, which is being forced to do. In this framework, we will also implement the arrangement that will provide a resilience of these times. Again, we are about to complete our work on a process that will eliminate long-term victims of divorce cases. Again, we'll expand the scope of new methods, such as e-interview, e-controversy, serial reasoning, simple trial. We'll continue to form new residency courts. The courts, which specialize in fields such as development, the environment, information, and expert judges, will again do their work for the citizens in this sense after receiving special training. As you know, from December 15th, the financial courts -- courts for tax crimes in this sense -- are now in force, and this will be a legal facilitating role for our citizens in this sense. Again, in cases involving our people's property, property, land, and property, both public institutions and courts will be subject to immediate trial and priority decisions will be made around here. The issues concerning the property of the citizen will be first seen and concluded in the cases. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, when there is a conflict between our citizen and public institutions, he will sit at a table with an administrative peace mechanism, such as mediation -- and so our goal is not to sue the citizens' state, and the public has done wrong -- our citizen will sit at a table without a trial with the state, and if he does not agree, he will go to trial. There will be no court with the citizen state, no state citizens. We're going to stop this practice. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, we'll proceed with the pilot's litigation in the interlocutions between citizen and administration. Let's say, for example, there are 10,000 cases on the same subject. In this case, 10,000 experts, 10,000 expeditions, 10,000 expenses, and 10,000 cases are victims of a long period of trial. Ten thousand lawsuits have been filed; one case will be called a pilot/ or group case, and the court will determine; the case concerning that person will be finalised in a high court; one of 10,000 cases -- because it is the same issue -- will decide 9.999 cases on the same day, and our citizens will see justice served on the same day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, we will continue with radical and institutional reforms, bringing the assistant judge and prosecutor to our legal system. In this sense, in the beginning of the profession, by swallowing the podium dust, by touching the story of every person, by seeing the tear of one person's tears on the outside when they're arrested, by seeing that one person's tears in the divorce process, when he measures his property, by seeing the victim's suffering and how the indictment is written, and how it works, how it works here, how the bailiff works, what the clerk suffers, how people stay in prison -- when freedom is constrained in this sense -- how they will see it, then wear its robe, then bring justice to the people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, we will bring geographical guarantees to judges and prosecutors, which we find very important in terms of judicial independence, in terms of collateral. This guarantee will be predictable for our citizens and, again, a predictable career for our judges, for our judges and for our members of the judiciary, and to prevent further proceedings.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0435par0480	You've been bringing geographical collateral for two years, where is this geographical collateral? He's been coming for two years.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0481	We will continue to bring new solutions to the lengthy trials due to frequent judge change. The Supreme Court requires first-class membership in order to be elected to the District Attorney's office, as well as the condition of seniority. We'll make the necessary arrangements, considering five years of law enforcement. The exception, in particular, came into force a few days after July 15th, and we know very well that there really are troubled areas for citizens and lawyers in some agencies. With the support of our Veteran Assembly, we are working together on an arrangement that will satisfy the implementation errors and needs of the following term. Let's hope that's legalized, and we'll be done in the next semester. We will examine the balance of crime and sanction in our penal code to satisfy society's sense of justice. Our Criminal Law Science Commission has placed 16 years of the Turkish Penal Code on the table, and with a unified understanding, not prosthetically, it is necessary to make arrangements for the Turkish Penal Code, CMC and the Execution Act, which complete their work. And when it's over, we'll also share our proposals with all of our political parties, because it's the basic law, and I believe we'll all come to a conclusion. We've completed our efforts to regulate persistent harassment and stalking verbs as a separate crime as a deterrent crime. And I hope that will be arranged as soon as possible. Again, the new and separate regulation of our penal code on hate speech and hate crime is also part of our work. Again, in the framework of our victim-oriented justice policies, we will do all kinds of work, especially for children; again, for victims. The victim of violence will not be left alone in the courthouse in any way, whether she is a victim of violence, whether she is a woman or a child or a disabled person. And we're going to continue our very special work on this. We will also make it easier for violent women to be appointed lawyers and to benefit from legal aid so that they can use their rights routes effectively. Again, we will facilitate our citizens' application for legal aid. And again, we're going to put more resources into the budget next semester.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0436par0488	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0489	We will continue our important work on defence, as well as on defence, which is the key element of the judiciary. During the trial, we're going to make a change to the seating arrangement in the courtroom so that the defendant can benefit more strongly than the legal aid of the lawyer. We have significantly increased their mandatory self-defense fees, but in this regard, we will continue to maintain that attitude, and we will continue to be even more supportive in this regard. We'll reduce the tax rates from defense and law enforcement. We're going to have to represent him with a lawyer on high-profile business and procedures. That way, we can strengthen our citizen's legal security and legal protection. We're going to make improvements to the workings of public defenders and their rights. We're also continuing our efforts to improve the rights of our justice staff.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0437par0493	Mr. Secretary, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0494	Our staff is the lifeblood of forensics. I extend my love and thanks to all members of the justice department who sweat and work day and night to satisfy the sense of justice of our citizen. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] We will continue our efforts to benefit from all improvements including 3600 additional indicators in 2022, including our court and CTE personnel. We also believe that we will receive concrete results in the transfer of contract personnel to the staff in 2022. We'll increase the scope and quantity of overtime. Again, with the arrangement in 675, we continue our efforts to create a new class of services by forming the class of justice services. We will receive 12,000 new staff at 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0437par0498	Mr. Secretary, let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0499	Yes, Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0437par0500	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0501	Mr. President, good lawmakers, as EC PARTY governments, our way is to put justice in the foundation of the state and the basis of justice; democracy is the rule of law. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] This path will lead to a more accessible and reassuring justice in 2023, and we will reach all our goals together. On this path, our compass is the state of law and our course is the demands of our nation. We all share the expectations, concerns and hopes of 84 million citizens. Our nation deserves the best and best of all reforms. We can't work any harder for these people. To be worthy of this nation is the greatest of honors. So with that understanding, we will continue our reforms as free individuals, strong communities and a more democratic Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll give you my last sentence.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0438par0506	Without mentioning the strange Gezer...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0439par0507	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0433par0508	For a more democratic Turkey and a more developed Turkey that no one in 84 million would feel on the sidelines, we will continue to serve our nation after this, as in 19 years. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I hereby submit our Ministry's budget for 2022 to our General Assembly's appreciation. I believe that the reforms that are still going on will take place by 2023, and each of our citizens will be safer when we walk through the courthouse door and through that door. Yes, for me, there is a judgment that works for justice. We are working to bring it to its senses. Of course, we're doing our job, we're doing our administrative work; you're correcting the lack of the law; the judiciary is doing it in the best possible way; there's a separation of forces; and for our citizens, I wish the budget to be good for our nation, and I salute the General Assembly and all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0440par0512	Have you ever heard of Emine Şenyaşar?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0441par0513	Mr. Secretary, theory 10, practical zero.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0442par0514	Mr. Secretary, what country are you from? What country did you tell us?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0443par0515	The order belongs to Mr. National Defence Minister Hulusi Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0444par0518	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you and our esteemed citizens on the screen. As you all know, yesterday at Avashin-Basyan, three of our heroic comrades were killed. After that, 20 terrorists, including those who launched these attacks yesterday, 6, 14 today, were neutralized after a coordinated operation launched by our national intelligence agency from land and air. We have never left the blood of our martyrs on the ground, nor will we. Our operations will continue decisively and until the last terrorist is neutralized, no one doubts that. (ARK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) For this occasion, we have God's mercy on our martyrs, wounded, and wish them a speedy recovery. My condolences and thanks to the precious families of our martyrs and wounded and our noble nation. Today, here, I'm going to give you brief, brief, brief information on the activities of our Ministry under budget talks in 2022. As you have closely followed, we are going through a delicate period of global and regional levels of risk, threat and danger, re-forming the security environment, constantly changing the balance of power. Under the leadership of our President, our ministry's duties and responsibilities are naturally increasing during this period, when we are in command with the Chief of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the most comprehensive, densest activities in our republic's history. As they know, defense and security are beyond our understanding and approach, political polemics and competition are a matter of the beka of all of us, 84 million citizens and our state. In this understanding, the Turkish Armed Forces continue to fight terrorism abroad and across borders for our sovereignty, independence and security, determined and determined to protect our rights, interests and interests in our blue homeland and skies. At the same time, the seven climates contribute to the world and world peace that they have received from our ancestors, who bring peace, peace, and justice to three continents. At a time when terrorism and disorganized migration threatened our country, our borders by Mehmetchik are protected by the understanding of the law and the most intense, most effective measures in our republic's history. In this scope, 283,016 migrants were blocked from crossing our 2.949km border from January 1st, with 99,318 irregular immigrants captured and 450 terrorists handed over to law enforcement. With high morale and motivation, the heroism and sacrifice of Mehmetchik, who has served our borders with his life in need, is above all recognition. Our fight against terrorism continues relentlessly at an increasing pace and violence against all terrorist organisations, particularly ▪, PKK/PYD-YPG, DEAS. From July 24, 2015 to today, a total of 33,100 terrorists in the north of Iraq and Syria have been neutralized from the beginning of this year. At the same time, it is understood from the leaders of the terrorist organisation that the external support and incentive given to the PKK/PYD-YPG will continue, and it is made clear by the leaders of the terrorist organisation that the YPG is the PKK. We are determined to free 84 million of our citizens from this terror scourge, no matter who supports the PKK and its Syrian arm, the YPG, no matter who they get their support from. (ARK PARTI and MHP, applause) This decisively cannot be entered into places called Operation Claws in the north of Iraq, controlled by terrorists for years, shelters, warehouses, and so-called headquarters in the region. Mehmetchik's breath is on the back of terrorists. The heads of terrorist organizations cannot stay in the same place for two nights. In Iraq, the fight against a terrorist organisation that poses a threat to stability in the region is co-ordinated and closely co-operated with Iraq. In order to ensure the safety of our borders and citizens in the north of Syria, the operation of the Firat Shield, launched just a month after the July 15 treacherous coup attempt, and the following, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain and the Spring Shield, has been blocked by the terror corridor, torn and secured by the operations of our borders. (EA/DG) After these operations, more than 1 million Syrian homes and lands have been voluntarily, safely and calmly returned, with nearly 470,000 of them in Idlib. In areas that have been secured, our activities continue as co-ordinated with the Ministry, the institutions and institutions involved in the absence of a new wave of migration and normalisation of life. For example, in 14 hospitals, about 3 million people were given health care, more than 300,000 students were provided with education and education support at 1,325 schools. All efforts are made to ensure stability in Syria as quickly as possible, and to end human tragedies. While all these activities are being conducted, all ethnic, religious groups, especially innocent people, and the security and protection of historical, cultural tissues and environments have been shown, as much attention and sensitivity as no other army has shown. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In Libya, our 500-year brotherhood, our brotherhoods, our bilateral agreements are in accordance with the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you; we provide military training, assistance and advice for them. Our goal is to contribute to the formation of Libyan, a peace and stability that has provided a territorial integrity and political unity with its understanding. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we care deeply about the stability of the Caucasus region, and we are making great efforts to ensure peace in this region. The Turk of Azerbaijan ended his 30 years of occupation with Operation One Country, which lasted forty-four days and resulted in victory. Russian and Turkish Armed Forces personnel are working together at the joint centre established under the signed ceasefire agreement, making efforts to ensure the ceasefire is permanent and stability. The Turkish Armed Forces are currently supporting the modernisation, exercise and training activities of the Azerbaijan army, which we are together with in grief and pride with the understanding of two states, one nation, and one nation, and continue to carry out the joint activities of mines, hand-made explosive materials, search and destruction in areas that have been liberated from the occupation. We'll continue to be with them in the Azerbaijan Turk's righteous cause, as we have until now. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] To briefly mention the situation in Afghanistan: the Turkish Armed Forces have taken important positions in Afghanistan, where we have historical and long-standing brotherhoods. The decision by the United States and NATO to leave Afghanistan was expected to reach the final stage, where conditions were growing faster and more difficult, and in less than 48 hours, the evacuation was successfully completed as planned. Mehmetçik returned home safely to his country, with the right pride of serving the peace of the world, with the success of his duties in Afghanistan, as in all the geography he has served so far. Already, the work on the operation of Kabul Airport, which is important to all Afghans and the stability of the region, is co-ordinated with Qatar. In the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean, we have problems with the widespread demands of Greece and the Greek Cypriot Administration, which are not in line with international law, and their aggressive actions and rhetoric, including so-called alliance initiatives. So much so that it attracts the reaction of all who have common sense. Any unlawful, unjust act that violates Greece's Lausanne Agreement, which does not respond to all our well-intentioned dialogue efforts, is being answered at the table and in the field. We sincerely want our problems to be resolved by international law, peaceful means, good neighbourly relations, and through dialogue. For that, we say, for example, we can even assess the reduction of exercises. On the other hand, we expect the Greek delegation that we invited to the 4th meeting under confidence-building measures to Ankara. We will continue to make every effort for the Turkish and Greek people to enjoy peace, prosperity, and security, and to make sure that the Aegean Sea is a sea of friendship between Turkey and Greece. As for Cyprus, as you know, the solutions for nearly half a century have been inconclusive. Thus, in Cyprus, the two governments are now equal, sovereign, independent, and the only solution. Cyprus is our national issue, and we are with our Cypriot brothers today, as it was in the past, in accordance with the Guarantee and Alliance Accords. As a result, we are determined, determined, determined, and thankfully able to protect the rights, interests, and interests of our Cypriot brothers both in Cyprus, in the Aegean, and in the eastern Mediterranean. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On the other hand, as for peace support and protection activities, NATO, the United Nations, the European Union, the European Security and Co-operation Agency have bilateral relations with Azerbaijan and Libya, as well as Somalia, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Qatar, and many other geographys -- including Katar. Wherever the Turkish Armed Forces serve, they maintain their distinguished and respected position, offering contributions to the peace of the region and the world within the framework of universal principles and human rights, in a way that suits our history, culture, and our ancestors, so that we fulfill our commitments and responsibilities to promote peace; naturally, we expect the same attitude and response from our dealings. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are very concerned about staff selection, supply and training, as well as the vital importance of human power in the field of defense and security. On one hand, the National University of Defence continues the activities required by military training, the activities required by tradition, and on the other hand, academic training and teaching in accordance with the needs of the age. The recruitment of personnel and military students is being carried out by our Ministry in a manner that is open, transparent and auditable to administrative and judicial control, in accordance with the Constitution, laws and relevant legislation. Our ministry has nothing to do with the company, the legal, commercial, financial and institutional structure, which has nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0445par0535	It's totally emotional!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0446par0536	It's totally emotional!
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0444par0537	We're constantly working to improve the rights of all our civil staff, pensioners, soldiers, and civilians, and we're trying to make improvements in the interests of the staff as the resources are available. In short, health care support is provided by military health personnel in the area of the operation, along the cross-border and combat line, as well as by the Ministry of Health staff in the region. In the field of operations, we are currently working closely with the Ministry of Health to improve military health care support abroad and abroad. We continue our fight against the plague meticulously and intensively through what we call the Korona Antiviral Center, the center we call the KOMMER, in all our units and institutions. We are also contributing to the fight against the epidemic by producing various health supplies, delivering them abroad and abroad. As for recruitment activities: a system of reformed new military systems has been established that meets the needs and expectations of the Turkish Armed Forces and our citizens, modern, flexible, predictable, sustainable and accessible through the E-government. With new information, documents and data, a complete approach and determination is ongoing, the Turkish Armed Forces are strengthened as they are cleared of it. The successes of the growing number and diameter of the operations that took place after July 15th are the clearest indication that we are getting stronger as we are cleared of ▪. The Turkish Armed Forces are always ready and at the disposal of our noble nation, as well as any natural disaster or emergency. Our natural disaster relief plans are constantly updated and conducted by co-ordinated by institutions such as the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, AFAD. In addition, a study was launched with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to be used in forest fires if necessary, by equipped with additional systems from the Turkish Armed Forces aircraft in inventory. On average, we plant about 250,000 saplings a year, register them as military property, and follow them. In addition, Mehmetchik is teaching him about environmental awareness and nature's protection, and we are successfully implementing the zero waste project within our Ministry. Mr. President, lawmakers, even though we have paid for it in history, the ships that haven't been delivered to our country, and the embargo that we've been exposed to during the Cyprus Peacekeeping process, are still in our memory, and we haven't forgotten the drones that we couldn't afford to take care of, even though we had just paid for them yesterday. We see this attitude and approach that we have encountered in the past continue, unfortunately, in different shapes and sizes. Our experiences have made it clear to us that the importance of developing our domestic and national defence industry for the sake of our state and the safety of our noble nation is vital. Therefore, in the time of the Turkish Armed Forces' need, and effectively in the defence industry ecosystem for production and supply, we are working hard with public institutions and institutions, foundation companies, private sectors and universities, and we are taking the results concretely. Thankfully, we are now at the level of exporting a significant portion of our critical weapons systems and platforms with our own domestic and national facilities. But we're also aware of the distances we have to make in this regard. Our goal is to move the level of domestic and nationality approaching 80 per cent with the leadership, encouragement and support of our President. I'd also like to make a brief statement about the engine that deals closely with the weapons systems. As you have watched closely, the defense industry has begun mass production of domestic engines for the missiles for turbojet engines and drones as a result of the selfless work done by our companies. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The Tactical Wheels, the FirTINA obsess, the ALTAY tank, the SKY and ATAK helicopters and local engines have also been produced and tested. In addition, the integration of the hybrid propulsion system into the armored M113 vehicle has been completed as part of the Electric Armored Fighter Project. Studies are continuing to implement the system's FIRTINA observatorium and tanks. I'd like to briefly discuss the situation and activities of our Tank Palet Factory, which has been handed over for 25 years. The sale of the factory or the land is never in question. All assets belonging to the factory are state property, including the idea and testing property rights. All activities for the factory's maintenance and production are carried out under the control and control of the National Ministry of Defence. During the transition of business rights, staff in the factory were not victimised, and according to their demands, our Ministry has taken over the company ASFAT. The whole process has been carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and the four cases filed against the State about the transition of business have been denied and the legality of the process has been confirmed. (EA/DG) In the factory, as before, manufacturing, maintenance, repair, renovations are being continued. At this time, 6 FIRTINA obses and 1 ALTAY tank prototypes were produced by BMC Defense Anonymous Corporation. Unfortunately, the application for export licenses for the ALTAY tank power group supply has been inconclusive. The Defence Industry Presidency co-ordinate continues activities aimed at producing a power group supply group from other countries and the production of the domestic power group. Arifija's value has been pronounced at 20 billion, the value of land, infrastructure, building, counter parks is estimated at around 250 million dollars, according to the law-set track values. 20 billion... 250 million dollars... what I'd like to bring to your attention is that the average age of the building and the counter park is 35 years old. On the other hand, our Institute for Machine and Chemical Industries has been transformed into an anonymous company, which, by your decision, belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Treasury, all of its capital. It has thus been transformed into a more dynamic, more efficient, stronger, and competitive structure that has been desired for years. The rights and powers of the company, the administration, the representation, the audit, are all ours. In the process, none of our employees were victimized. All rights of our workers demanding to leave our company have been protected and transferred to our Ministry's units, and this process has been completed. The transport process to other public institutions and institutions of officers and contractual staff who do not want to sign contracts with the company is under way. In better terms of subcontractors, a three-year extension has occurred. As part of the employment announcement, candidates with at least three years of employment experience and degrees 60 and more have taken the written exam, and according to the score ranking, human resources interviews and technical interviews have been objectively done, and the results are reported under the Protection of Personal Data Act. In this framework, 35,521 people applied for the machine chemistry recruitment exam, not 80,000. 11:904 people bearing the terms have been called to the written exam; 513 people who have passed the written, human resources interview and technical interview have begun. Under hiring, our company will be able to provide for the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces, as well as for the growing needs of friends and allies. With its new structure, we believe our company will have an active position in the international market. Many critical projects are already being carried out in our company, with the urgent need of the Turkish Armed Forces. The last example of this is the 76/62 millimetre sea ball that is successfully completed, which will be used on our ships; there are 3-4 countries in the world that are doing this, and we've become one of them, and we're doing this. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Some questions have been asked by our friends -- of course, there's probably been a misunderstanding -- by the Deputy Minister himself, who has been given answers to our friends, our fellow lawmakers, but they haven't been answered here; we're passing them. Congressmans, while our work continues at all speeds to reduce our dependence on the field of defence industry, some weapons, ammunition, equipment and materials are also required to work abroad, but some allied countries are preventing us from selling the weapons systems we demand for various reasons to sell to our country. As it is known, despite many attempts to meet the need for our country's long-range air and missile defence system, these systems from NATO member countries have not been able to supply them. Therefore, the S-400 system was not taken as a choice but as an obligation. All our preparations for the use of this system are planned if needed. We didn't use an air defense system, a missile defense system, an air defense, an air strike? There was a missile attack and we didn't use it? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the F-35 project, even though we've fulfilled all our responsibilities, our F-35 supply has been blocked based on S-400 purchases. The Turkish and US delegations met in Ankara on 27 October 2021 to discuss these issues, and our views and demands for the return of our F-35 expenditures were forwarded to the United States and agreed to meet in the United States at the beginning of 2022 to discuss the issue. In addition, our official request for F-16 supplies and the modernisation of some of our existing F-16 fighter aircraft has been forwarded to the United States under foreign military sales. We think the U.S. government will be positive, and we are closely monitoring the process and developments. Turkey -- us -- will have to consider other options in order to ensure its safety in the threat environment if the United States is negative. NATO member states, as it is known, have committed by 2024 to allocate at least 2 per cent of GDP to defence spending. According to the accurate data of the year 2020, we have this ratio of 1.86. In this regard, the budget Law Proposal of 2022, which has been prepared to take into account the challenges, fiscal discipline and austerity measures, has been set up according to our goals to provide the highest benefits from our ministry.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0447par0553	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0444par0554	Mr. President, the Turkish Armed Forces, which have emerged from the heart of our noble nation, are in charge of the nation's command and command, in accordance with the constitution and laws of our national, moral and professional values that have come from thousands of years of glorious history, in the light of reason and science. Don't let anyone doubt it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our heroic army, also known as the prophet's furnace, is determined and determined to carry out its mission with earnestness and sincerity, if I die under inspiration from the love, trust, and prayer of our noble nation, against any threat and danger. On this occasion, from Sultan Alparslan to Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, in these lands, which have been our homes for a thousand years, all the government that has brought us to these levels, honors and thanks to our elders and commanders, our mighty martyrs, our heroic veterans, who have returned to eternity, asking for God's mercy, and my thanks to all the heroic veterans who are alive, the precious families of our martyrs and veterans.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0447par0559	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0444par0560	I'm just finishing up. At this moment, on land, in the sea, in the air, in the weather, in the harsh terrain and weather, the hero kisses every one of my gun and colleagues on their foreheads, wishing them the best, the best, the best, the best. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] The Veteran Assembly, I salute you once again, and our dear citizens watching us on the screen.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0448par0565	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the individuals, İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0449par0569	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2022, with respect to the Veteran Assembly. My condolences to God, his family, and his loved ones, who were martyrs in the Paw Yıldırım operation area north of Iraq. I'm sorry for the loss of our beloved Turkish nation. As the population of the world grows a little bit more each year, so do the needs for food and nutrition. Sadly, however, there is a significant amount of waste of food worldwide. Despite the growing demand for populations and food, food security is in danger unless we take measures against droughts, extreme weather events, and despite all of this waste. Food loss and waste due to waste also causes global warming and climate change due to large amounts of waste, such as water, soil, energy, labour and capital, and unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions. The food and agriculture sector is directed by the demand of consumers. Therefore, the conscious consumer is the most important link in the food chain. As individual orientation changes, the industry will produce expectations. This production should also be with the awareness of protecting the environment. In order to increase individual consciousness, primary school and secondary school students need to organise training to determine their consumption habits. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, adequate and balanced nutrition is essential to human growth and development, efficient work, resistance to external factors and diseases. We meet the need for adequate and balanced nutrition primarily with agricultural activities. Our country has an important agricultural potential for its strategic position, its young and educated population, its fertile lands and unique climate that connects continents. The beginning of agricultural production and the basis for the reproduction of many plants are our seeds. The seed is the first link in the food chain, and the structural indicator of biological and cultural diversity. Today, seed is not only an agricultural input but also a product of high income economic value, which is acquired using technology. We know and follow that our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is doing very well in this area. But considering that a handful of seeds are freedom, more work must be done on the production of native and national seeds from our ancestors, the use of the seed and the spread of the seed, and the effort must be made in this sense. Because when our farmers come to the market with their native and national seeds, it's a total national fortune, and it will always move our country forward. It is also important to work with experts in the field when making national and local definitions. We need to evaluate our brothers, an agricultural engineer and agricultural technician, regarding modern farming and animalism techniques. Our brothers, such as forest engineers, veterinary physicians, water products, fishing technology, food engineers and technicians, have to be included in our domestic and national production work, who are looking to work in their fields and waiting to be appointed, such as technicians. This will encourage our young people as well as contribute to our country's economy. Dear lawmakers, in an epidemic that has dominated the world for over a year in particular, we have been more involved with nature and animals, and we have felt the need for it more. I want to be the voice of our silent friends. In our country, the basic needs include 1 per cent to 8 per cent and 18% VAT in private needs. Although there is a basic need, however, there are 18 percent VATs in cat dog food, such as special needs. Animal lovers also feed street animals as well as animals they own. In this respect, I would especially like to re-introducing to the Reverend Minister that all cat, dog, fish and bird foods should be performed by 1% or entirely without VAT. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Again, one more thing I'd like to mention: the heroes of our forests have a very broad responsibility for our fire personnel' rights, but I would like to reiterate that there should be an adjustment in this regard, especially because they do not have the institutions and definitions that they belong to in this regard.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0450par0578	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0449par0579	With all due respect to our Veteran Assembly, I wish our budget, the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forest, to our country, to our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0450par0582	Dear lawmakers, as of the day the budget begins, a decision made by our Group Vice Presidents is the result of talks by the Group Vice Presidents. I'm going to make a commitment to the Deputy Group Presidents who want to make a commitment based on this decision. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0584	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Now, there are three Ministers sitting here. In fact, we can't do much personally because we can't do a lot of things in all our president's actions, under the leadership of our president, because they're starting with our President's tensives, with his orders, with his instructions. (What's wrong with that?) One minute, so it's perfectly natural for them to respect. I'll be somewhere else, you know?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0452par0587	Congressmans, I've just had a huge reaction to opposition, opposition lawmakers talking. Please, don't let anyone say anything. Let's express my thoughts without even challenging a taunt. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0589	Of course. We're talking about the country's budget here. The opposition's mission is clear, the power's mission is clear. So, of course, that's not true... the Republic of Turkey is a great state, a great state. We wish and desire the glory of your glory.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0452par0591	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0592	But isn't it strange, my friends, that this great state is going to put out a fire on its way to the disaster when its great ministers of the great state go to put out a fire? I mean, it's weird. Or on the way to the cataclysm. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Therefore, I also praise the members of the ministers. My friends gave me numbers on agriculture. Friends, it's not the Bakir Pakdemirli's fault, it's the President's fault. Whatever we're looking for, we're going to look for all the problems there because this is the one-man system. But let me tell you, my friend from the AK PARTY: Mr. Altay has a famous saying that if you do the best work in the world, we won't applaud you. Nowhere in the world does the opposition applaud the power, says the good guy, don't you have hundreds of laws that we've contributed to? I do. Why do you need our applause, brother? I'll pass on that. Now, fast, very short, like...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0453par0597	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0598	Mr. Minister of Agriculture gave us the numbers, our deputies gave us the numbers. Now the peasant listened to both of them, listened to the Minister of Agriculture, listened to the opposition, listened to the government. Now, the peasant is sitting in his house. In Turkey, it was tradition, for example, in terms of the Ministry of Agriculture: we used to have a ritual, and the villagers would go out to pray for rain, and God would pray for rain from me. Now, the peasant goes out to say a prayer, and he goes out to pray for no foreclosure, he goes out to pray for electricity, he goes out to pray for fertilizer, that's the view. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Mr. Secretary, it's all right, but I don't see the shame in you. You have a beautiful explanation, and you say: "We will not allow our citizens to eat from the markets what they cannot feed their own children, and we will not look down upon those who sell non- honey syrup." I applaud you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0453par0602	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0603	But after your statement, Mr. President has released the import of presidential decree 4321 and artificial honey. What a diet of sauerkraut! I'll skip that one, too. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I don't want to make it too long. The budget isn't too tense today. I'd like to say to the Minister of Justice that you did a very good job again. In Ankara, I believe, was it in Ankara? This is the Right to Innocence and Unsullied Symposium... In a country with such a symposium, your counterpart, the Home Secretary, has declared our 524 children at Boğaziçi University, our shining child a terrorist. Not only that, he declared the worker, the worker, the worker, and the laborer a terrorist who was employed here in İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality the previous day. Minister, don't you have integrity? Sir, if the state's police, the gendarmes, the JITEM, the MET, the Bosphorus and the IBBB, why aren't your prosecutors serving, sir?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0453par0607	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0608	I've gone through what the Home Secretary calls a terrorist. Why isn't he investigating? Is that even possible? You're doing an innocent symposium, and your colleague is declaring everyone a terrorist. I'd like to put that on the record as a contradiction to the government. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I won't take too long, and we'll have to say one last thing about the national defense. Mr. Minister, in Azerbaijan, in the process of Azerbaijan, we congratulate and admire the Republic of Turkey and our heroic army, the strategy, the zeal of the Turkish Armed Forces.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0453par0611	Bravo.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0612	Congratulations and compliments, but from this...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0454par0613	Your vice president has objected.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0451par0615	I'll count down what your president says to you now, and you'll be ashamed.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0454par0616	Count it, Mr. President, count it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0455par0617	Wait a minute, wait a minute. My dear brother, shut up. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0456par0620	Besides, in the defense industry... we don't live in space.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0455par0622	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0456par0623	And we're very happy to follow up on the progress of the defense industry. I have a favor to ask you: Please, I beg you, don't engage in these airports, including investments, including RD, including investments, including airports, highways, bridges, sinkholes, tube parades -- with the illegals, with the five-point gang. Please don't associate the state with the unlawfuls in the defense industry, and I'm asking you as a representative of the nation, and I'd like to say this.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0457par0624	You're accusing me.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0456par0625	Mr. Secretary, you spoke highly of our heroic army, and we are grateful. I just told you today, we have four martyrs, fire in the furnaces. To our heroic army, Turkey is a country like this: we applaud our doctors, Covid... but here's how we got together last week to improve the doctors' salary. Mr. Secretary, the last...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0458par0628	That's what's left of it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0459par0629	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0456par0630	Mr. Secretary, our petty officers, our special sergeants, contractors, privates, they have serious problems. Turkey is a big country. This state has the power, the ability, the ability, the ability to solve the problems of its citizens, its employees, its soldiers, the issue of choice. If we don't use our preference for thieves, for example, for national defense, our petty officers, our special sergeants, we'll give them a deep breath. I keep telling you, the Turkish police aren't afraid to be martyrs, my friends, they're afraid to retire because when he retires, he can't get a pension to live on. When you leave, I'll applaud you as members of the Cabinet.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0459par0632	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0456par0633	We don't see this budget as the budget that we find inadequate to solve the problems of the parties, the shareholders. I also declare that we will vote on the budgets you have brought to this Parliament. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0459par0636	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0637	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I listened very carefully to Mr. Minister of Justice and the entire speech of the ruling group about the Ministry of Justice, and I received the necessary notes, and I decided that either we live in another country and the Justice Minister and the ruling group MPs or what we experience is a lie. I mean, I want to talk about your life. Now, the headlines the Minister of Justice has said, theoretically, as to what should be the philosophy of the law, of course, there is no problem. While I'm actually listening... who can argue with the concept of progressing rights and freedoms? Or who could object to attempts to prevent conspiracy in the judiciary? Or who could object to the work that says arrest should be a precaution?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0461par0641	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0642	Or who can argue with the notion that the concept of judicial control and the ban on getting out of the country should be appropriate? But life is different. That is not the way the justice system works in Turkey right now. I'll come to the truth. Of course, I'm also curious, or, how can I put it, more than curiosity, who really is the Minister of Justice? Who's running it? Who's running the trial? Who runs the prisons? Who's leading the investigation into the tortures in custody? Who do these judges and prosecutors belong to? What kind of work does the HSK do? The Minister of Justice doesn't know about this? Or if there is, who is the Minister of Justice?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0461par0644	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0645	Because I can express what we've been through in exchange for every word he's said. He said there's no Kumps. He said that our friends, who were the co-Chairs of our party before, are facing a full-blown conspiracy case. He mentioned the geographical collateral of the judges, we passed the geographical guarantee, and as the trial continued, two judges changed; one was the president. A prosecutor named Ahmet Altun was appointed special, transferred to İzmir, returned again. There's direct judicial interference there. And the judge says, "I'm going to be in court for two weeks, I'm going to take a week off, and you have to do your defenses without even reading the midterm decisions." Come here and defend yourself before you read those folders. What's this now? He said, "There is no false evidence." He said, "There is no false evidence."
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0461par0647	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0648	Right now, there's been a terrible organization like a secret witness, a confidential witness. Mr. President, a confidential witness can be created about you and me and every member of parliament, and that confidential witness can cause you to be arrested, that may cause you to be convicted, but you don't know who that confidential witness is. He doesn't come and testify to you or your lawyer, and then some of them don't, and the police say, "We couldn't find this. So it's more of a setup than that? A woman died yesterday, Garib Gezer. I'm really hurt about this, and I'm telling you to your face when I'm here.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0461par0651	Here, Mr. Beştaş, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0652	In the Minister of Justice's field of duty, a woman has been sexually assaulted, raped, abused, imprisoned for twenty-two plus five days, tried to commit suicide once, and yesterday they say: "He committed suicide." I said yesterday, this is a suspicious death, and so far no statement has been made from the Ministry of Justice, unfortunately it hasn't been made here. There's still not a single suspension statement, we haven't received any information about the investigation being launched, and not a single body was taken, the prosecutor didn't wait for the lawyers to do the autopsy, he didn't take the autopsy. We don't know what it is yet, and it's being buried at this hour. Mr. President, with all due respect to your tolerance, I'm going to quickly list them in the list: Ya, there are no closure instructions in speech. Why aren't the ECHR decisions implemented? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0462par0656	Mr. Beştaş, let's wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0658	There is no conspiracy in the HDP closure case. No arrests, no arrests. No juvenile judgments, no kidnappings. No executions, it's very important. I have a decision, in prison for thirty years, the board of directors says: "You put your hand in your pocket, I burned your execution. Again six months, one year again.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0462par0659	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0660	I'm finishing, Mayor, if you'll excuse me, we've been listening all day, and we haven't had any promises before. No sick prisoners. Mr. Minister knows Mehmet Emin Özkan. He knows him very well in this Parliament. I've told you 50 times, right now Covid is at Diyarbakır Research Hospital and he's handcuffed to the bed. He'll be out any minute. I can name dozens of names that come out of the funeral after I notify the Ministry, and the Forensic Medical Association isn't doing its job.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0462par0663	Mr. Beştaş, let's wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0460par0665	I'm picking it up. There's no demand for justice in this conversation for years for the Shinyasar family. There's no background on the Sea Poyraz murder. Why did the killer call the police 28 times? The D.A. didn't care. The prosecutors of the MP who received $10,000 have no silence. No naked searches. I've got Hakkari Mayor's naked search, and then he's in solitary confinement, and he's gone. There is no freedom of thought and expression. In the province where I'm acting, in Siirt, our mayors have been three people, three and a half years under house arrest, no indictments, two years. No, no, no, no. We're living with these facts, and we really want the Minister of Justice to follow up on his speech today, or we're actually asking who is the Minister of Justice in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0463par0669	Thank you. Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0464par0671	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, today we have completed negotiations on the budgets of the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. We'll do the QA in a moment and then we'll take a vote. And I would like to thank our ministers today, who have made this presentation, the valuable party groups who have contributed. As you know, what was targeted ahead of the July 15 traitorous coup attempt was the breaking of the resistance of the Turkish army and the state of the Republic of Turkey, and Turkey entering a major chaos, even civil war. Here, to ensure this, the main goal was the Turkish army, the Turkish Armed Forces, and to make it irresistible, it was to make it irresistible.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0465par0675	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0464par0676	Since this purpose was carried out in the wake of the July 15 coup attempt, after the dissolution of this army and its members, our army became extremely short-handed, and at the same time the world was thinking about how the Turkish army would recover after this hour, there was practically a date with Operation Firat Shield. The Turkish army, for the first time in the world, has made the world speak its name, destroying more than 4,000 DEAS terrorists, as an army that has succeeded against the DEAS for the first time and neutralized so many DEAS terrorists. After that, Operation Olive Branch and Afrin destroyed around 5,000 PKK/PYD elements. After that, the Peace Fountain was a major success and destroyed the corridor of terror that was being set up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0465par0678	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0464par0679	Now, with Operation Spring Shield under way, the Turkish army has shown itself in a very important way around the world with our other capabilities, electronic warfare tactics, our ability to change the world's war strategies. Then, according to the Minister's statement, the Turkish army and Turkish navy have once again proved its own growth in almost 200,000 hours, almost in the blue homeland geography, in our seas, in the Mediterranean, and in the international oceans, especially in other activities. Despite the distress that the Turkish army suffered at the point of war pilots, the Turkish Air Force has achieved an incredible success in our airspace and in all other operations.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0466par0683	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0464par0684	In these matters, we cannot thank the Turkish Armed Forces in person of our National Defence Minister and Ministry. In all terrorist operations and all other cross-border activities, Karabağ, Libya, and all other areas, with Allah's permission, they waved the Turkish flag with glory, God bless them, and God bless them, and God bless our soldiers, and our Mehmet-chik. Again, in the process of judicial reform, especially the work our Justice Ministry has done, and the contributions our parliament has contributed to this have been very important to demonstrate the reformist understanding of this period during the actual implementation of the presidency's government system, and reform activities have provided great benefits, especially in our justice system, at the point of access to judicial and judiciary. And at this point, I would like to express our personal thanks, once again that we are with you as the Nationalist Movement Party for all efforts at the point of independence and neutrality of the judiciary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0466par0687	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0464par0688	Our Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Bakir Pakdemirli and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, especially in the framework of national agriculture, national seed projects, with Turkey's improvements in domestic, national understanding, agriculture, hopefully very soon, we'll be able to harvest their fruit and bleach our faces. I would especially like to express our gratitude to the Minister, our staff, and all the authorities here, for his devoted work during the forest fires. I respectfully salute the High Assembly, and we wish to take into account the proposals and proposals made by the National Movement Party in today's talks.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0466par0690	Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0467par0691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Today we discussed the budget of three major ministries. I thank our ministers who offer and defend their budgets. Everyone knows the importance of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of National Defense. Mr. Minister of Agriculture has made a complaint, and I agree with him on that point. The Ministry of Agriculture is as important as the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of National Defence. In fact, if we add a national adjective to your name, it's a ministry that deserves it, but there are problems in every area.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0468par0696	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0467par0697	As the Good Party, we speak of these problems on the budget we discussed and on the basis of those chapters, sticking to the essence and loyalty of the matter, on the floor of the House. What we say should be discussed not only in common criticism, but also as part of suggestions. What the opposition is saying may be exaggerated by some circles, but I want to draw ourselves out of there a little bit more, we're talking about the facts of Turkey. There are serious problems in the field of agriculture. About 650,000 farmers had to step down from farming because they couldn't get the amount of sweat they had left in the ground. Entrance costs have skyrocketed. Look, on December 6, 2021, DAP fertilizer was $12,700, and today on December 10, 2021, $14.750.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0468par0699	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0467par0700	Fertilizer is 12,800 on December 6th, 14.700 liras on December 10. On December 7th, crop fertilizers weighed $8,400, and now it's gone up to $8,800. The price of diesel has increased, the increase in two years has increased by 61 per cent. There's no down payment, but when you look at the rising prices, no product's price has ever gone up equivalent to it. So, our farmer is facing some pretty serious problems. In this regard, we urge the government not to look at our words as ordinary criticisms and to take advantage of our suggestions. Our Minister of Justice has made some very important statements, but it is clear that there is a serious crisis of trust in the field of justice.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0468par0703	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0467par0704	In societies where justice is damaged, you know, there will be no unscathed business. Therefore, there is an exceptional place in the concept of values that need to be defended, the establishment of justice. Judicial decisions are being discussed in Turkey, investigations and trials that have been conducted or prevented from doing so, of course, are the issues that burn our hearts. A mindset that avoids respecting the decisions of the upper courts continues to reflect its distorted view of the concept of justice into justice institutions, just like a virus. We're always reforming.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0468par0706	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0467par0707	I'm almost done. Reform, we're doing it on reform, but we can't say that we've been able to do a complete and precise reform. What we refer to as "Reform" is nothing more than a revision. Turkey has issues that need to be resolved by hand. Our Turkish Armed Forces are an important institution where our entire nation will protect and protect as the apple of the eye. We applaud the successful steps taken in the defense industry, of course. Our Turkish Armed Forces have also achieved significant successes and are conducting various operations in many areas. Operations beyond the border are being carried out through the powers and regulations provided by the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0469par0712	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0467par0713	This Parliament, authorising the Turkish Armed Forces, should also give morale to our heroic army. In this case, the P.A.P.D. Party declares that we will vote for the National Ministry of Defense budget and to the attention of the High Assembly. God repeats the blessing of our army in all areas, in the air, in the land, in the sea, in peace, in all triumph, in all things, I wish this budget to be a blessing, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0470par0716	Amen. Thank you. Mr. Oluç, I'd like you to make a brief assessment because... You wanted a word, didn't you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0471par0720	Mr. President, I mean, no inequality, Mr. Akbasoglu asked for a word.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0470par0721	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0471par0722	Later.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0470par0723	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0472par0724	The HDP has already made the assessment, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0470par0725	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0473par0726	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. As the EC PARTY, we are truly fortunate to present our 20th budget to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0474par0728	Where's the applause?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0473par0729	It's really...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0474par0730	Yeah, 20 budgets, no applause.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0473par0731	Look, this kindness and kindness...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0474par0732	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0475par0733	Address the House. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0474par0735	I said I'm sorry, okay.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0476par0736	I'm addressing the council.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0475par0737	Mr. Engin seems to like you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0476par0738	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and conversation. As the EC PARTY, we are fortunate to present our 20th budget to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. The nation uses its sovereignty by the hand of its members.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0475par0741	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0476par0742	The Constitution is the meaning of the rules that bind us all. According to this, according to the 2017 Constitutional amendment adopted by the Turkish nation's referendum, the presidential government system is the current government system. The presidential government system is a system change; it is not a regime change. The Parliamentary government system has been rescinded by our nation, and the presidency has implemented the government system. In this framework, the framework of dissolution of tough forces, within its principle, the bodies of living, executive and judicial bodies carry out their duties in their own frames. No power gives or gives orders to another power. It's all about our nation's...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0477par0744	Mr. President, it's twelve o'clock at night. What does this have to do with the budget, for God's sake?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0475par0745	Mr. President, wrap it up. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0747	In the face of all these truths, I would like to say that today we discussed the budget of our three ministries. The first is our Ministry of Agriculture.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0479par0748	Dear President, please step in, it's twelve o'clock in the morning! What does this have to do with the budget?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0749	Our Minister of Agriculture has provided the necessary numerical values. There has been a recovery in every area. Hopefully, we've offered a budget that will increase the buying power of all communities, especially our farmers, workers, farmers, pensioners, and civil servants. And make sure our farmers don't leave any place unsettled. We've never had them crushed by inflation, we're not going to crush them, so I'd like to express the good news here. As for the budget for justice... ▪ Justice is the foundation of property. ▪ Really...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0753	Mr. Akbasoglu, please... Our ministers expressed themselves beautifully. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0755	Sir, look, don't you treat all groups equally?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0756	Come in, come in, no, I'm listening, but the ministers...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0757	So you don't need a warning, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0758	Mr. Akbasoglu, the ministers...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0759	Look, we've been talking for seven minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0760	Wait a minute... Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0761	I've only talked to him for three minutes, so why are you ruining my ride in half?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0762	Wait a minute... I'm not objecting, I'm saying...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0763	Seven minutes was discussed, six minutes, five minutes; I only got three minutes, so I...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0764	You come here, come here, come here.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0765	Please, no.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0766	Come in, no, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0767	Look, I was gonna talk for six or seven minutes anyway.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0768	Wait a minute... Mr. Akbasoglu, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0769	And this is the first time I've ever made a promise on behalf of our group...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0770	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute... I know what you're saying, just a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0771	... I don't understand why you feel the obligation to make such an explanation.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0772	Wait a minute... Wait a minute... Don't scream, don't scream, calm down, calm down, calm down.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0773	No, I'm not yelling, sir, I'm not yelling.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0774	Don't get excited when you say it.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0775	Yeah, I'm calm, I'm calm.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0776	Why are you being so sensitive when I don't tell you that the ministers are expressing themselves?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0777	I'm doing an evaluation on behalf of our group, the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0778	Here you go, brother. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0779	Mr. President, the ministers have done their duty.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0780	Don't answer me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0781	And as Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0782	Either you're wasting time, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0783	You drop it, you cut it in two minutes. As a result, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0786	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0787	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our judicial packages for the Ministry of Justice are ongoing, we will continue our packages under the Judicial Reform Strategy Document and Human Rights Action Plan. At the point of this dynamic process, democratisation, liberation, and securing the safety of our nation, we will bring every law to this House, hopefully, to the discretion of the High Assembly. And no one has to worry about that. We will always continue in faith and determination to uphold justice and not give up justice, even to our opponents, and no one will doubt it. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] Thirdly, I'd like to say about national defense: yes, in national defense, it's really 20 percent...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0790	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0791	Mr. President, I hope we will move the national defence industry, which we have brought from 20 per cent to 80 per cent in national defence, higher. This is the result of Recep Tayyip Erdogan's will and the AK PARTI's power. [Cheers and applause from the lines of the party!] After all, together we are the lovers of our nation. At the point where our heavenly homeland is really going to go further, we're going to do our part with our investment, production, employment, export and growth-oriented new economic plan and model. [HPP and GOOD Party rankings ▪Bravobooks, applauses!]
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0480par0794	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0478par0795	With our new economic model, hopefully, we'll all live together by applying our relaxing, prosperity-enhancing policies to all our communities, regaining our nation's hearts and regaining power in June 2023. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council. [Applause from the AK PARTY; CHP, HDP, and GOOD PARTY rankings ▪Bravobooks, applauses!] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account T) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Supreme Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY ACTIVITY OF TURKEY [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 EPISODE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0481par0844	Congressmans, the talks in round four are complete. Let's move on to the question and answer process. Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0482par0847	Mr. President, we want the justice services to become more widespread and faster. We're waiting for the physical structure and staff of the palaces of justice to be improved. We want additional buildings to be built at my city's Kahramanmarash Courthouse, to be set up in court in the districts of Çağalancerit, Nurhak and Ekinözü. We want clerks, editor-in-chiefs in court to increase their staff and be appointed, and the rights of the court staff to be improved. While waiting to do his patriotic duty, there are 500,000 people who have stood by for various reasons. They are unable to benefit from the right to pay military service. They ask for forgiveness at a price. For agricultural production to increase, the farmer must be given technical support and advice services and audit services. We need to employ more agricultural, food and water products engineers and veterinarians in this direction. The ministry's staff must be increased and appointed urgently. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0483par0852	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0484par0853	The Court has determined that 61 people have been assigned to the Agricultural Development Support Agency illegally in the status of civil servants; these appointments have been moved to the judiciary while the institution has been staffed by contract workers; will you have an arrangement for this irregularity? The bike driver, young Hope Gündüz, was murdered by a drunk driver, and the killer was released four months later. Her family is in Ankara for the fight for justice. We've both offered a research proposal and a law proposal; will your ministry have a legal arrangement? In 1993, 9 people were burned to death in Mush Vartinis. The arrest warrant for the defendant is not being carried out, but the trial is under way. Do you have an opinion, an opinion on this policy of punishment?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0485par0856	Mr. Kaboglu...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0486par0857	Mr. Minister of Justice, the State of Emergency Commission has rejected the applications of peace academics after five years of waiting, despite the acquittal of the Constitutional Court and severe criminal courts. The unknowing commission, which was established contrary to the principle of natural judges and based on what it decided, ignored the final decisions and many of the articles of the Constitution. The commission, which rejected the application of academics, some of whom are now members of the Supreme Assembly, has admitted to more than 100,000 of the rejection decisions he has made so far. Mr. Secretary, what is your opinion on this matter?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0485par0858	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0487par0859	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the Minister of Justice: When will a district courthouse be built, which will serve Thrace, the historic capital of the region, and the capital of the Ottoman Empire? During the time of your handing over the judiciary, many district courts have been closed, and our Edirne, Havsa, Meric, and Lalapaşa Courthouses have been closed. How many members of the HSYK, who decided to close the courts, were expelled from the city? Are you going to reopen these courts? Doesn't the state have to establish a judicial organization in the districts where it founded its executive organization? In addition, the courthouse buildings in our districts of Longköpru, Keşan and Ipsala are inadequate. Do you plan to build new buildings here? When will the needs of increased staff be met by the courts? I'd also like to ask the Minister of National Defence: You're showing the Ministry of Family and Social Policy addresses for those who were injured during the fight against terrorism and were not counted. Didn't these veterans serve under you?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0488par0864	Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0489par0865	Thank you, Mr. President. There have been a number of arrangements that have been made with our Parliament's busy hours and five judicial packages that have been released so far. The arrest warrants, issued with the fourth judicial package, have been given the opportunity to be released with a commitment, and where are the statistics? Number two: How high is the success of the e-trial application that allows you to attend the hearing in court, voice and video? Three: Do you intend to promote the Children's Justice Centre, which you have inaugurated in Erzurum, in our other cities across the country for the first time in recent days? Four: When will the new application come into effect with the fifth judicial package and depriving child delivery from the subject of the executive director's office? Where are the delivery centers now? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0490par0871	Dear Light...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0491par0872	Garibe Gezer, who you remained silent to the screams of his torture, died suspiciously in the conditions of isolation in prison, a method of torture for political prisoners. You're saying there's no isolation. Isn't it a solitary confinement of hundreds of political prisoners? Five members of a family have been killed in the vehicle hit by an armored car in 2017. The family has been asked for compensation of 250,000 euros due to the damage to the armored car. What is the legal, human, moral basis for this situation? Usually those who die in armored car accidents are flawed. Have any of the armored drivers ever been punished? Information on Turkey's use of chemical weapons is on the agenda of the world media. Are you going to do any research on the subject? Tens of thousands of KHK people are asking. How long are you going to remain silent about the State of Emergency illegality that led us to one day be expelled by those who will be judged without any crimes to be tried?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0492par0875	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0493par0876	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of the National Defense, your support for our security forces, and my thanks and respect for your sacrifice, your determination, day and night. The prayer of the great Turkish nation is our Mehmet-chik, who lives and writes heroic legends for the honor and honor of the Turkish country. He remembers our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, and I say that my Lord will make the Turkish army mansur and victorious. Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, thank you for your sacrifice in the forest fires. I want to thank you for the Tartarus Cotton Dam. It is expected to continue by increasing support and incentives for the input costs of our producers, as well as the completion of the ongoing millençay, Interrogation, Aksifate dams and ponds. Will our Ministry's work on lemon manufacturers, especially in order to prevent fluctuations at the price of lemons? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0494par0882	Dear Rose...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0495par0883	Our comrade Deniz Poyraz was murdered in an organized attack on our party's Izmir province building. From the very first moment, the killer and the killer were protected by security forces. Before the evidence was collected, even without HTS and CCTV footage, without any further investigation, what were we trying to hide from the killer's immediate arrest in 18 hours? Why weren't the suspects involved in the investigation that the killer was in contact with? Why did the killer call the Izmir Police Department 27 times before the incident? Why was the killer's armed training in Syria not investigated and his connection to SADAT (SADAT)? Do you really have a problem exposing murderers? What reason do you have for not responding to our demands and our question proposals for the problems that have been our mission as MPs?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0494par0885	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0496par0886	Thank you, Mr. President. Our request is from our Minister of Justice. Do you have a study that will include the 2022 budget for the construction of the Malatya courthouse, which has been assigned by the Privatisation Administration to build a courthouse and the project is completed? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0497par0889	Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0498par0890	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture: Do you intend to investigate the privatisation process in Kütahya, when the 130,000 square metres of land belonging to the Turkish Republic of Turkey are given to the Kütahya Sugar Ash and therefore to the Grandchildren and the Locker Group in questionable ways, and the ten-year statute of limitations? One. Do you know that in this factory, which is privatized and a victim of privatisation, beets are bought for 40 cents, and change is sold for 38 cents? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0499par0894	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0500par0895	Thank you, Mr. President. How much barley, wheat, lentils did the Earth crop office buy from our farmer this year? Is it true that 11.5 protein imported animal food wheat is processed and given to the market as flour? Why don't the bakers use $180 worth of flour sold in a 50-pound bag for 350 lira on the market? If he's using it, what's a bread for $3.50, a bagel for $3.5? What year was the latest agricultural census? Niğde Imrahor and Halaç Ponds are unfinished, and on what date will they be completed? When will the Daring Pond problem be resolved? Are you going to interfere with overprices in fertilizer and bait? Do you intend to erase the farmer's interest in debt? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0501par0903	Now, to answer the questions, I give you my word. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0502par0905	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to start here: Engin Altay had a saying. I work with Recep Tayyip Erdogan because he is a leader I believe in, and I will continue to work. He's doing politics for politics, working for a leader he believes in, he's working for himself, but I've always been proud to work for Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to receive instructions from him, to serve him, to serve my nation, and I have no problem with that.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0503par0907	I didn't say there was, Mr. Secretary, and I didn't say there was.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0502par0908	Okay. Now, we're going to consider everything that's been said here, and we're going to be responding in writing, of course. The common mind is important to us, as I said, we don't just work with our own minds. We've done two of the largest chapters in the history of the Republic, one is the Agricultural Forest, and one is the Water Side. We are open to the opinion of our MPs who want to contribute, then, from here, from the groups, all of them. These foreclosures are isolated events, so farmers' foreclosures are isolated events, and when we look at them, I usually come across two years, three years, debtable files that aren't paid and addicted. But if there's one of our valued deputies here, they can deliver the files he believes have been wronged as individuals, and I'll take care of them, and we'll take care of them one by one.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0504par0912	The files of all farmers in Şanlıurfa are wrong, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0502par0913	Now, something has come from our Good Party Group to withdraw 650,000 farmers. I couldn't find the source of it, but the employment has increased from 4 million to 620,000 since 2008 to 5 million to 21,000. The number of registered businesses -- the number of CKS -- has also grown to 2 million in 2018, and 2 million in 2021 have become 186 in 2018. And the thing about lemons is, really, 2020 lemons are 1.19 million tons, and the record of all time has gone up by 30 percent to 1.5 million tons. So we've had a suggestion: a DFI, through the Ministry of Commerce, better be able to provide a support for exports. We discussed this last week with the Minister of Lütfi Elvan, and with our Minister of Trade. I think it can be done if there's a fund for that. Our supply of both food and wheat is subsidized by the Earth crop office, both to the ovens and to the manufacturer, to subsidize the feeder, to keep its costs at a certain level. This isn't going to cover the entire market, of course, but we're doing something that will cover some market demand and demand. We specifically targeted 50 percent in the ovens. Over 380 of the furnaces work with us here, and continue to work with us. If the bread prices haven't gone up too fast by now, they must have a thing. Especially with the bait, we've seen the benefits of similar regulations. Engin Bey said something about this artificial honey; Bosnia and Herzegovina's origin is a preferential trade agreement on glucose and fructose syrup only. It's not imported, but it's not about honey. The charge of illegal appointment of 61 people in Diyarbakir district of TKDK has been made in accordance with the regulations. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0505par0919	How much room was planted in Sudan?
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0506par0920	Mr. Tanal, put your mask on. Friends, everyone put on your masks, some of our deputies are texting us. So Tanal came here, he said, everybody put on the mask, guys.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0505par0922	I asked a question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0506par0923	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0507par0924	Mr. President, dear MPs, first of all, I thank all of our MPs for their valuable opinions, criticism and suggestions. All of this is important to us, and all of this will be subject to evaluation, and I will also give the answers in writing about the questions I can't give here, as we did here in the Commission, in writing to all of our fellow lawmakers. Ben, first of all, as it's always said, some issues are being considered about the cases that are going on, about the investigations. Of course, those are the courts, the courtrooms, where they will be discussed, where they will be judged. As our executive, we have no jurisdiction over the investigation of a legal case, and no one has the authority to speak on behalf of the court. We have to leave the trial to the judiciary, and if there's a flaw, if there's a mistake, Turkey is a state of law, which can be corrected within its mechanism. Isn't that wrong? I do. There's nothing missing? I do. Why would we do these reforms, why would we take these laws, why would we take these steps if everything were so bright? For the past year, there are 19 million files that have been passed by the judiciary, you tell 100 wrong decisions from these, and I'll tell you, because it's more than 500 decisions, how do you make that decision? But if there's anything missing from these, it's possible to evaluate all of this in terms of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, and the international law that we're committed to. Therefore, within the framework of a functioning, walking legal system, none of us are judicial, and we have no authority in that sense. Our nation's expectations in this matter are that the judge will take these steps, change the laws of the law in front of the prosecutors, the shortcomings of the practice, whatever they are. The administration will provide any technical support in the administrative sense. Our nation is also bound by the judgment, my friend, by your figure of justice. Look at the verb in a person who comes along, don't look at the perpetrator, don't open your eyes, you're blindfolded. Never, ever look at the identity, the lifestyle, the thought, the politics of the person who comes in front of him. We all share a common desire that whoever entered through the gates of the courthouse should be brought to justice by the court. But as our government, as a member of the government, none of us have any jurisdiction. We're all trying to build this culture of justice together with both education and law, reforms. If there's a shortage, it's a lack of all of us, and we'll all do our duty in that sense. Because the judiciary is not the judgment of the EC PARTY, it is the judgment of the Turkish nation. In this sense, judgment is the most extraordinary place for all of us to keep in common. In that sense, we will need to continue our work by doing our work together. Dear friends, of course, I'll give it to you in writing, but one or two, my time is up. Mr. Celal Fendoglu, we've worked closely with our fellow Regents about Malatya, our project is almost over, and we're working to get this invested. We're going to build a big courthouse that'll suit Malatya, as long as it's necessary. Mr. Gaytancıoğlu --I've been there myself -- Keşan's Heavy Penalty has been established, and the location next to it has been identified, and we'll present the zoning plans in writing, and the answers to other questions. Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0508par0931	National Secretary of Defense, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0509par0932	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are working closely with the ministries concerned with improving the rights of our personnel -- captains, petty officers, specialists, contractors -- and we are making all kinds of efforts. Did he sell to Qatar? AsELSAN made a public statement, I assume you're aware of that. It's an organization founded on citizen donations. The majority stake belongs to the Turkish Armed Forces Enforcement Foundation, so it is unrealistic that it is sold abroad. ASELSAN has announced that he will resort to legal action against these allegations. We've had the opportunity to say it many times, but unfortunately, I don't know if it's a bigotry or something, there's no chemical weapons in the inventory of the Turkish Armed Forces. It's not taken, it's not hidden, it's not made, it's not made, it's not used in any way. These weapons are very easy to track. The International Organization for Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is doing the necessary research, and we always support it. We've got a lot to do about the defense industry, and we're proud of where we're coming from. We owe our President our encouragement, our gratitude for his support. Everything we have is transparent, law-abiding, traceable, accountable; we have no business with thieves. Sir, other than that, if I die as one heart, one fist under the command and command of the commander-in-chief, starting under the current Constitution of our President, the martyr against any threat and danger, especially with terrorist organizations, we continue our struggle with determination and determination within the understanding of the veteran. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the Turks and Kurds who have shared the same geography, this geography, this bread, this water for thousands of years are brothers, and the most obvious sign of this is our heroes who have sacrificed their lives for our glorious flag, for our country, and for our martyrdom. Another point is that the collapse of the terrorist organization is evident. With these feelings and thoughts, the Turkish Armed Forces within the Ministry of National Defence, in a full unity and unity, inspired by the love, trust and prayer of our noble nation, without any distinction, are fighting with determination and determination for the sovereignty, independence, security and the survival of 84 million of our citizens, and we will save our people from this terror plague that has been plagueing us for 40 years. Our every activity is transparent, and we're very ambitious, so we'd love to answer the questions we've been asked, but we'll answer the questions in writing because our time is limited. One final sentence: Once again, I honor and thank our beloved martyrs, our heroic veterans, who have been brought to eternity, with mercy and gratitude, to our heroes who are alive, to our martyrs and veterans' precious families. I salute you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0510par0943	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0511par0944	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me answer the question of Mr. Pakdemir. Yes, Mr. Pakdemirli, I work as much as you believe in your leader, to trust my leader, to vouch for his honesty, honor. There's a difference, but it's this: I, Kemal Bey, sometimes, sir, it's wrong. I'm sure you can't say that to Mr. Recep. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0512par0949	Mr. Commissioner, you have a voice request. Here you go. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account T) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Supreme Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY ACTIVITY OF TURKEY [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 EPISODE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0513par0998	I just wanted to make a promise to make sure the budgets were good. I also want to thank all of our contributors. I wish you the best of our budgets.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0512par1000	Mr. Muhammad, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0514par1001	Mr. President, I'm only taking the liberty of presenting information. We have been informed that a criminal and administrative investigation has been launched by our Chief Public Prosecutor's Office regarding Garibe Gezer, described as a suicide case. I present this to the knowledge of the High Council. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0515par1003	I have a brief word for 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0516par1004	Tanal, we heard you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account T) TURKEY WATER INSTITUTION [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Supreme Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Supreme Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account ÜRKEY ACTIVITY OF TURKEY [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 EPISODE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account Now, in order to get public administrations in the fourth round in line to their budgets and final accounts, I will have them read their budgets and final accounts separately and vote for you. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 64,623,189.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The budget for central management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's final account of central management in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 44,626,119,422,44 Budget Expenses 43,660,529,971,06 Cancelled Fund 962,790,447,53 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 281,662.572,20 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2020, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry was considered part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Director-General of the Forest shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Forest General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 6.220.952,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 6.215.952,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Forest General Directorate was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Forest General Directorate will be transferred into the chapters of the 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Forest General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 4.133,332,730,74 Budget Expenses 3.902.756.063.05 Cancelled Fund 204,085,043,06 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 26,491,624,63 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget revenue estimate 3.474.151.000.00 Collection 3.828.505.859,91 Rets and returns 50.082.085.99 Net Collection 3.778.423.773.92 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 of the Forest General Directorate have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Water should be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. THE GENTLE SURVOLUTION 1) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 25,019,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 25,0104,700,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the State Water Affairs General Directorate was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the State Department of Water Affairs will be transferred into the section of its final account in 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) State Water Affairs General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 14.136,728,559,68 Budget Expenses 13.914.168.434.03 Canceled Grant 215,484.836,32 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 94,272,306,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. I'm reading the general sums of the ruler (B): Budget revenue estimate 9.449.219.000.00 Collection 13.776.730.882.02 Ret and Returns 6.605.159.64 Net Collection 13.770.125.722.38 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the State Water Affairs General Directorate. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Water Institute be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkey's Water Institute Central Management Budget for 2022 GENEL TOPLAM 5.364,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 5,364,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Water Institute was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Water Institute in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Water Institute Final Account for Central Management for 2020 Total allowance 4.333.00 Budget Expenses 3,714,310,34 Canceled Fund 618,689,66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 4.228,000.00 Collection 5.958.866,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Water Institute were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Justice will be transferred to the central management budget of 2022, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Ministry of Justice Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 33.323.466,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Justice was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of the Ministry of Justice in 2020 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Justice Department Final Account for Central Management for 2020 Total allowance 19,981,225,080,81 Budget Expenses 23.382.429.583.35 Compensation Expenses 3.471.022.975.62 Cancelled Fund 69.818.473.08 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 9.997.078.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2020 of the Ministry of Justice have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022, those who do not accept... those who do not. 1) Supreme Court Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 485.217,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Supreme Court was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court's final account of the central administration in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Supreme Court Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 Total grant 323,704,225,55 Budget Expenses 310,343,453,20 Canceled Fund 13.360.772.35 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Supreme Court were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the state's office be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 324,369.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the State Department was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the State Department in 2020 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 Total grant 213,397,880,01 Budget Expenses 210,723,225,65 Canceled Fund 2,674,654,36 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central administration's final account were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Department of Correctional Institutions and the Employment of Prisons shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. CEZA BUILDINGS BUILDING WITH UNIFE PRODUCTIONS 1) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2022 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 3.185.052,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 3.173.052,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 was adopted by the Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association of Prisons. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Correctional Institutions and Laboratory of Prisons shall be transferred into the chapters of the Central Management Account of 2020: those who agree... those who do not accept... those who do not. 2) The Criminal Execution Institutions and the Employment Association for Prisons 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 4.020.567.700.00 Budget Expenses 3.269.760.69.95 Cancelled Fund 750.807.003.05 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 989.196,000.00 Collection 3.694.393,748,55 Ret and Returns 2.070.656,14 Net Collection 3.692.323.092,41 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the Department of Correctional Institutions and the Employment of Prisons. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Justice be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Turkey's Justice Academy Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 29.982,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 29.732,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Justice Academy's central management budget was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Academy of Justice in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Justice Academy 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 26.204,000.00 Budget Expenses 19,835,830,21 Canceled Fund 6.368.169.79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 25.094,000.00 Collection 17.214.404,98 Refuge and Returns 775.00 Net Collection 17.213.629.98 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Turkey's Justice Academy's final account of central management in 2020 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the Council of Judges and Prosecutors shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022, those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 1) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 135,980.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Board of Judges and Prosecutors' final account in 2020 will be transferred into the chapters of the central administration account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Board Final Account for Central Management in 2020 Total allowance 93.193,000.00 Budget Expenses 90.593.669.90 Canceled Fund 2,599.330.10 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Administration account of 2020 of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. ENGLISH PEOPLE'S RIGHTS AND ACTIVITY 1) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 29.043,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 28.043,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The central management budget of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Human Rights and Equality Foundation of Turkey will be transferred to its chapters in 2020: those who accept... those who do not. 2) Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total allowance 19,502,300,00 Budget Expenses 17.264.250.56 Canceled Fund 2,238,049,44 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 17.022,000.00 Collection 16.051.032,37 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of Turkey's Human Rights and Equality Association's final account of central management in 2020 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Institute for Protection of Personal Data shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Personal Data Protection Institution 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 65.945,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 65.945,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 of the Association for Protection of Personal Data has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Institute for Protection of Personal Data will be transferred into the chapters of the 2020 Central Administration account: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Personal Data Protection Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 46.383,000.00 Budget Expenses 32.136.690.12 Canceled Fund 14.246.309.88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 46,383,000,00 Collection 45,419,110,04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2020 were adopted by the Association for Protection of Personal Data. I submit to your votes that the National Ministry of Defense will be transferred to the central management budget in 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 80.439.536,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Defence budget of central management was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the National Ministry of Defense's final account of central administration in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Ministry of Defence 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 61,270,706,856,22 Budget Expenses 61,875,316,815,30 Compensation Expenses 13.862.959.060,12 Canceled Fund 13.159.591.841.86 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 13.219.905.618.76 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the National Ministry of Defence's central management account of 2020 have been adopted. So the budgets and certain accounts of public administrations in the fourth round have been accepted, and I wish them well. Congressmans, the fourth round of talks is complete.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0517par1354	Mr. President, before we close, you have a very short promise to make.
tbmm-2021-12-10sit05spe0516par1355	According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday, December 11, 2021, to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
