tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. In accordance with the programme, we will hold a vote of the first 2 articles of the 2022 Central Management Budget Act, including Article 4 (part 4) and talks on the articles of Article 4 (part 4). In the eighth round, I read public administrations with budgets and precise accounts: The presidency, the head of the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of the Religious Affairs, the President of the State Archives, the Chairman of the Government of the National Palaces, the President of Strategy and Budget, the President of Communication, the President of Defence Industry. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 Commission? He's in position. Lawmakers will be promised to conduct the talks on the tour with political party groups and at the request of the 62nd Article of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question and answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the eighth round, I run the names of political party groups, executive and individuals who are taking the words: On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Sezai Temeli, Van; Ridvan Turan, Mersin; Zeynel Özen, İstanbul; Kemal Bulbül, Antalya; Necdet İpekım, Batman; Diryet Dilan Taşdemir, Ağrı. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Abdullatif Sener, Konya; Burcu Koksal, Afyonkarahisar; Mustafa Tuncer, Amasya; Servet Üsal, Ankara; Mehmet Göker, Burdur; Nazır Cihangir Islam, İstanbul; Ali Mahir Aşır, Mersin; Burak Erbay, Muğla; Kadir Endaris Berberoğlu, İstanbul; Yüksel Mansur Küçççç, İstanbul; Kani Beko, İzmir; Bekir Başevirgen, Manisa; İkir Özcan Aygun, Manirdağ. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Radiye Sezer Kadırcıoğlu, Kilis Dalklıç, İstanbul; Gülay Samancı, Konya; Murat Baybatur, Manisa; Selami Altok, Erzurum; Yalçın Akdoğan, Ankara; Niyazi Sun, Karabuk; Erol Kaluncu, Korum; Fatih Süleyman Denizolgun, İstanbul; Hasan Turan, İstanbul; Uğur Aydemir, Manisa; İbrahim Aydemir, Erzurum; Kadir Aydın, Giresun; Ahmet Müncuncu, İstanbul. Aytun Çıray, İzmir; İbrahim Halil Oral, Ankara; Aydın Adnan Sezgin, Aydın; Zeki Hakan Sıdalı, Mersin; Umit Dikbayir, Sakarya. :Ismail Faruk Aksu, İstanbul; Mehmet Celal Fendoğlu, Malatya; Yaşar Yıldırım, Ankara; Mustafa Hidayet Wahapoğlu, Bursa; Tamer Osmanakaoğlu, İzmir; Mevlüt Karakaya, Ankara. On behalf of the individuals: Mujahit Durmuoğlu, Osmaniye; Fuat Oktay, Vice President; against Feridun Bahshi, Antalya. I'm reading Article 2 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal: MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 1,448,944.74,742,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 156,332,386,000 Turkish liras, including 19,623,651.000 Turkish liras, 136,708,735,000 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 156,332,386,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 10,238,553.000 Turkish liras, including the income of regulator and auditory institutions on the table, 10,062.295,000 Turkish liras, 176,258,000 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, totalling 10,238,553 Turkish liras. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 244,600,000 Turkish liras. We now begin the talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first word is for Van MP Sezai Permanent. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0002par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. [[x]] I have made a commitment to the presidential budget in 2022. We're talking about the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2022, but unfortunately there's no text with budget quality. In fact, for the past four years, these texts, called "budget," are primarily prepared with an understanding that ignores the will of the Assembly. There's no way to say this text is a budget that we're dealing with with with, which lacks law, economics, and politics. What we're talking about is an irrational account release of a system like the presidential government system. There's no budget because there's no law, there's no budget because the economy has no reality, there's no budget because there's no sign of democratic politics. This power, which ignores democratic politics and its institutions, has suspended the law with a veiled understanding of the state of state of law, normalizes the exception, and imposes authoritarianity with widespread violence, has been so cut off from economic reality that it has forced both the economy and the country into a major collapse. Creating a negotiating process with budget talks is the cornerstone of democracy. It's the moment of the face of every aspect of politics. The negotiation is to create your mind. The budget process is also the creation of the will to create common solutions to common problems. For this reason, parliaments are important areas of understanding in communities. They are the places where sovereignty is created by its representatives in the name of the unconditional, unconditional society. And this place is like this? A budget negotiation process, which has even been appointed to the minister, does nothing but recreate injustice with insincerity. For hundreds of years, it has been defined as budgetary rights for people in this country to be aware of how these taxes are being spent on what public expenditures are being spent on, what for and how much debt is being borrowed. The origin of the budget is up to the 13th century. For the first time in the 1215 Magna Carta Agreement, the king's tax collection and spending powers have been restricted. Magna Carta is also considered one of the first documents of peace, as she restricts the king's powers to wage war. In this regard, it is not only about democracy but also about peace. There's no budget today. Now it might be more appropriate to talk about the total removal of the budget rights, not the damage. This has become one of the most prominent features of the authoritarian regime. One person decides to create all spending funds and where they will be earmarked, which of the taxes to receive or not receive, and the amount of debt to be made, and the quantity of debt to be made, and the extent of all funds to be made between institutions. Moreover, he himself determines who will use this authority other than himself. It's impossible to talk about budget law where the budget rights are being imposed. It's the Parliament, which is the basis of the community's understanding, that budget law itself exists. Today's system bypasses the parliament, as a document of lawlessness, is trying to sell us this document as a budget. We have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have done it, we have The Constitutional Court has a budget in the budget, but he's prepared a mindset that wants to close the Constitutional Court. By ignoring the entire mind of the budget, the government, which puts the Constitutional Court on target, is acting with the mind of blackmail. Judiciary institutions have a budget, but the independence and neutrality of judicial institutions has been eliminated. The biggest conspiracy case in history, created as the Kobani case, demonstrates the end of judicial independence, while the same judiciary speeds up the country's collapse. However, if we could maintain budget law and budget rights, the rule of law, the separation of tough forces, and an uncompromising understanding of human rights, balance, control mechanisms, there would be no trial today that would bring up cases such as conspiracy cases and closure cases. The judiciary does not see itself in the budget, nor does society see justice in the judiciary. The situation has become so difficult that I don't know the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. A judicial mechanism that is accompanied by lawless power has become a gravedigger of justice. With constant judicial reforms, the country has become the largest human rights violation centre. Today, torture and violence in prisons are widespread and systematic. The death of Garib Gezer is the end of years of injustice and endless persecution. We're watching a lawless government and its party lose its conscience. If there's isolation, you can't create a negotiating ground in that country anyway. Today, isolation is actually a sense of power that ignores Parliament's will to negotiate. Why can't we make a budget? It's also a lockdown. In fact, Imralı isolation, which corresponds to the extreme limit of human rights violations, is a process where all improprieties are fed. We also need to understand that where the Parliament, which is the basis of a negotiation, can't object to a lack of common law and democracy, there can never be an address for law and democracy. As long as we don't get past Imran lockdown, we'll never get to the bottom of a democratic debate in resolving the Kurdish issue, which is a major issue. There's no way we can travel with missing equations and actors. As long as the House cannot take a stand against a will of its own, it remains a part of an isolated system. No council deserves this. Today, here, as HDPs, we oppose isolation, and in fact we hold the will of the Parliament and our people against fascism. [[Applause from HDP rows]] We have two basic structural issues - the Kurdish issue and the poverty issue. As long as we can't find the solution to these two issues together and integrately, we'll continue to live in the cycles of collapse. The budgets of the last four years have deepened these issues. Instead of resolving these structural problems, today's government, which feeds on the unresolvedness of these problems, once again designing the budget as a war budget and a runt budget, is a result of the system's chronicized disease. From the crash plan to today, the country's upside down continues rapidly. Nothing's changed in 20 years. You're determined, you want to deliver the country as you took it. But today's collapse is beyond the 2001 crisis. We didn't make it to 2021, but by 2022, when we take you out of power, we'll have ended this collapse process. With the dissolution of the Kurdish issue, you now call the language of our ancient people an unknowable language. In the streets of Diyarbakir, especially when they meet Kurdish citizens at election times, there is a race of racism by those who compete with cuteness. When you hear the words of Kurdistan, you start having collective panic attacks. But this Parliament existed in 1920, with the participation of the Lazistan mebus in Kurdistan. Try to forget as much as you want that you're in a parliament where the foundations of the common land are laid, history will continue to remind you of that. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The ancient peoples of this geography will continue to recreate history, even if you try to erase this memory from the plan for Shark reform to the trustee regime. We are here with our determination to build the democratic republic, the pluralism versus monotheism, the secularism against sectarianism, the democracy against authority, briefly, the democratic republic; we are a hundred years of memory of this House. [[Applause from HDP rows]] You're having the most intimate dreams. Without Kurds in it, without Kurdish peace, there can be no such thing as a dream, but it would be a nightmare, and you continue to live this nightmare to the people of this country, I'm afraid. For a new myth, we continue our resistance to war policies to keep the peace gate open. One of the main defining dynamics of the economic crisis is, in fact, the war economy you've created against the solution. I'll give you a very simple simulation. In the mid-term plan you made in 2013, you estimate 2024 years per person for a million dollars. If we had grown five percent in ten years by 2023, there would have been 20,000 dollars per person in 2023. You guessed $25,000, you were flying, but you knew how to fly, so you crashed. In this year's medium-term plan, your estimate of 2023 is $10,000. So there's a $10,000 difference between $20,000 and $10,000. How many of us are there? Eighty-five million; times ten thousand dollars: 850 billion dollars, that's obvious. That's the social cost of war; that's the equivalent of turning over the table. International organisations say the source for the war economy in the past 40 years is four times that. As a result of arming, allocation of such resources to war, we are in serious debt. That's why we're actually driven to collapse with multiple crises. That's the wrong policy. As you were asking, how much is a bullet in the square? The people are asking you now how much is a loaf of bread? The AKP's president is trying to pass the issue by quoting the baccarat process, but remember, there are other verses in the Qur'an that relate to this issue. In terms of the functional distribution of budget spending, we find that the largest share is actually aimed at maintaining security and public order. You can't maintain public order with this kind of spending. If you really want to maintain a public order, you can create a public order with the expenditures that create social peace, not with the expenses that dynamite social peace. In 2022, the money for militant expenditures is worth 246 billion dollars. It also reaches $350 billion when you add the spending of this sector -- which you define as the leading sector -- and the Defense Industry Support Fund. This actually represents a magnitude that corresponds to almost 20 per cent of the budget. You have created an unemployment rate of up to 8 million due to your insistence on maintaining and increasing interest rates created in the war industry and construction, in the real estate sector, and the employment rate has reached the lowest level in history, around 45 per cent, and inflation has reached 40 per cent, and the dollar is $14.20 as I go in, and let's see how much it comes out. You're trying to reduce unemployment and inflation with the manipulation of TİK. You're so helpless. Financial crises have led to a foreign currency crisis, and now we have a banking crisis ahead of us. And you continue to steal yogurt into the lake with interest discounts. The central management budget budget costs in the 2022-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal are 1,750 trillion. This is 22 per cent of the national income; the income is 19 per cent of the national income. It's a small budget, but when you raise the budget unhealthyly, it's a problem in itself. Thus, with this small budget, it is not possible to solve Turkey's current problems, but it is now known that with your mind, no solution to any of Turkey's problems can be solved. Another of the largest markers of the budget that follows these militant expenditures is interest payments at $240 billion. Almost a fifth of each $100 tax goes to interest payments. Because of interest, inflation is the result. You didn't stay here, you continued: the rise of the law will increase employment. Despite this increase in currency, this is all nonsense, and you know it. Whereas it's the country's risk premium you should be looking at. The country's risk premium has risen so high that one of the three risky countries in the world is Turkey. You've done it. There is no economic policy on interest and courtship. The point of economic policy should be to fix the reasons and go to the conclusion. Even if you don't accept interest, it's the result. If you want to reduce interest to a certain point, you have to reduce the risks of your policy. While the Central Bank is unable to produce monetary policy, our institutions, institutions, have exhausted their ability to make original political, autonomous decisions, even though the Treasury cannot produce financial policy. However, autonomy is an indispensable choice for economic stability and democracy from universities to local governments, from the Central Bank to social security institutions. The Central Bank is trying to keep billions of dollars dry by selling them to the market as a result of the wrong monetary policy. If you say the Chinese model, I want to answer you with a Chinese proverb: A thousand steps can't correct a wrong step. The revenues of the budget are 1,250 trillion, and at least two thirds of taxes are indirect taxes, which is people, workers, victims. If there is no justice in taxes, you can't find justice anywhere in the country, you're taxing the poor and taxing the capital. If you don't collect taxes from minimum wage, you're going to give up 32 billion, whereas you're going to continue to transfer funds to capital by spending $336 billion -- which is a good 336 billion -- which you have capitalized in tax exemptions and reductions under the name of tax spending -- which is a good 336 billion -- by not giving up taxes on minimum wage, but by spending $336 billion on taxes. That figure corresponds to 121 percent of the budget deficit, so if you don't transfer it to the capital, there won't be a budget deficit, but your intentions are clear, until the day you arrive, you've always been called the power of capital and war barons, and you always will be. The system that creates poverty is actually a system of corruption. This budget can neither deal with the economic crisis nor with the effects of today's epidemic, nor with unemployment nor inflation. By the time you've already prepared the budget, the dollar was $9.20, $14.20; the budget has already been reduced by 35 per cent, so we've lost a third of the budget. So what should we do? Law number 5018 is clear: it must have an additional budget. If you don't make an additional budget, the institutions will go to spend on the grant, so they'll ignore the law. But you don't care much about it, you ignore the Constitution, you ignore the European Court of Human Rights, you ignore the European Convention on Human Rights. Now you can ignore Law 5018. But as long as you're doing this, this collapse will continue quickly in every structure. That's why we need an additional budget right away. The additional budget is actually to develop an attitude towards the understanding of the State of Emergency. With the additional budget, we actually have to implement the early election as soon as possible, so that we can all survive this collapse that we've been dragged into.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0003par0086	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0002par0087	I'm picking it up. The alternative to such a budget is a democratic public budget. If we don't want to be condemned to a vicious cycle of creating new crises instead of creating only capitalism today, we need to design the budget now, too, if we want to create the democratic economy. If we want a country in a crisis-free economy, in an exploitive order, where citizens live freely together in equality and peace, we must aim for the new, not the old. And for that, we need a new paradigm, a new story, a new contract. I salute you all once again. (PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0004par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0005par0092	Here you are, Mr. Bulent.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0004par0093	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, like the power of the company, the budget has destroyed the powers of the House. He has made accusations, such as war, rant. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0006par0094	All the right things.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0007par0095	We have a deal, after the bands...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0008par0096	According to the agreement with the groups...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0009par0097	When all the bands are over, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0008par0098	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0009par0099	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0008par0100	In line with Mersin MP Ridvan Turan.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0010par0102	Mr. President, Mr. General Assembly and our precious people on the screen, I salute you all. I made a promise on the MIT budget. First of all, I think it's important to say that in the three years with the presidential government system, not only has the state's institutional architecture completely collapsed, but all areas from economy to domestic policy, foreign policy to public life have faced a traditional Mongol invasion as far as the history of the Republic of Turkey has seen. Now, the complement of the new institutional architecture is the presidency of the MIT. We need to take a look at it, and what's the idea that these intelligence and security organizations often have, and what is the security understanding and perception of these organizations' work in the background? In particular, I would like to express that this understanding is a 1920 understanding that has already been fulfilled historically and politically. It's based on this: 7 million square kilometers of Ottoman Empire narrowed down to 780,000 square kilometers, transforming a fragmentation and division paranoia into the backbone of security architecture. However, the existence of different identities in this geography and the fact that these different identities were purged in the process to create a homogeneous nation state was another important step. During this period, the Greeks, Armenians, Jews were purged in a technical and planned manner from social, political life and economics. Turkey's national security policy is, unfortunately, a disability in its blood, which will still weaken and divide Turkey by internal altars and external altars. Second: NATO in the 1950s was the process of organizing the gladiator; Sabri will be remembered for the emphasis on September 6th and 7th. Third: The political direction stemming from the unresolved Kurdish problem is to reduce the Kurdish issue to a security issue, however, the revelation of state, political and gang relations such as Susuruluk, the unknown of 17,000 perpetrators and burned villages are the phenomena that permanently shape security and intelligence perceptions and orientation in Turkey; Mehmet Eymur. The fourth step, in the formation of this security architecture, is for Erdogan to transform the MIT to be the special organisation of Erdoğan for the survival of one man's power. The M.S.I.S. is so equipped with powers that the State Department, the Department of Justice, has been able to run all these ministries in the field as they please. Now, while security and intelligence activities should normally be a right based on objective criteria, based on national and international law, and are equal to everyone else, we know very well that the People's Democratic Party and the social opposition that I represent are organised and expanded by the Byzantine MSI. How do we know? For example, we know about the Sea Poyraz incident. The MIT, which boasts that it is extremely hard to control everyone in all the geography, has repeatedly come to the vicinity of the HDP (HDP), made a discovery, called the police 24 times, did not realize that a fascist killer would launch an attack on HDP (HDP); to believe it, I think it is necessary to be a child. Not only that, but all the activities, activities, workers' right to form unions, strikes, these are all perceived as a matter of national security; the detention of youTuber, as well as the detention of the students. Now, the things that condemn the action of the MIT are in domestic policy; what is foreign policy? In foreign policy, there's also a concept of national security, of national interest, of precious friends and MIT following that policy. Now, for example, what does Egypt, Libya, Syria, and policy here have to do with national interest? To be clear, Libya, for example, the method of ruling the Muslim Brothers, who could not rule in Egypt, in Libya, was suddenly equipped with a national interest aura, and that form of politics was named after the blue homeland, and the MIT became one of the major actors in the field of these activities. To be clear, the people of Turkey have no interest, no interest in being in Libya, no interest at all in this ongoing policy in Syria. For example, the power, which says Syria is in favor of territorial integrity, should explain it. For example, how does protecting the HTŞ against the Syrian army relate to national interests? What does being a shield to them have to do with supporting Ahrar al-Sham, paying wages, opening schools, appointing governors, such as Turkey's national interests, the interests of the people? In Afrin, does it mean not to say a word about what ÖSO is doing? Now, for example, what does the interest of the Turkish people, Kurdish people, and all of our people have to do with HTŞ trading oil through the people of the palace? But a false foreign policy, of course, causes the MIT to continue its activity incorrectly. The Kurdish issue, the issue that we've always talked about, so this policy has become a policy that is so fundamentally full of mistakes that it's the political basis for the presence of the world's global forces in its own words that the Kurds don't get status there. Russia has no business there, and the United States has no business there. The Syrian people should be free to determine their own futures, but only there should the Kurds not see their mother. The response of their politics is that, unfortunately, these countries are now living here. This is the wrong foreign policy, the mirror image of the foreign policy based on Kurdish hostility, that's where international forces and imperialist countries took residence. However, we should have been able to negotiate with the brothers of our own citizens, our own Kurdish citizens. It was very possible to resolve this issue in a way based on diplomacy, based on peace and negotiation. Of course, the MIT's activities -- again, I stress -- have been transformed into subservient activities of a minority. I'm not just saying for the MIT that the foundation of all security and intelligence activities is unfortunately narrowed down to the back of the palace. So, what does this MIT say about Hrant Dink's murder, which is all that matters? What does he say about the October 10th Gar massacre, the Diyarbakir bombing? I'll tell you what, three and a half hours after the bomb went off, I was informed that ISIS would detonate the bombs. It's not just that, it's that there are problems in the international community. For example, allegations of assassinations against Kurdish politicians in Austria are being carried out in the European press. Do they have any explanation for a person named Feyyaz going to Austrian intelligence and stating that he was charged with political assassination on behalf of the MIT? Do they have any statement, any statement about the murder of three Kurdish women politicians in Paris, and that all the signs were an MIT operation? Do not the European Ottomans see that activities on the DİTİB are not a total security, but rather an act of insecurity for our country? Whether they see it or not, he's an officer, but there's a foreign policy that leads them to this goal, it's the outside policy of the palace. Why is it that bribe networks, job surveillance, corruption in public tenders, ruined hotels, marinas, ministers who defrauded their ministry, quickly enriching spouses, friends, relatives, for example, have never been the subject of MIT? Or why isn't support for jihadist organizations from Syria to Libya, support for paramilitary organizations, smuggling, the deployment of mafias on opposition, the thousands of tons of drug trafficking not the subject of MIT? You know the answer. Friends, some things are no longer a bet, like the guns that went missing on July 15th, right?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0011par0117	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0010par0118	There are statements made by the governor's office, a separate interior official has his own statements that he was there at the time of the release of Kaleshnikovs to an AKP executive in Istanbul, which was written and drawn in the press. For example, why doesn't MIT deal with these issues? Why, in such matters, does the MIT, who is proud to provide intelligence information to detain three children who throw away three fucking tweets at 5 a.m., not say a word about real national interests, real security? For example, between Yilmaz Inoy Arun and Metin Ashünk, the head of the district of Germany, hit the Kurds with a stick. Make a film of these, too. After that, publish these. Does he think that these documents that he did and were put in German intelligence are something that does not concern our national security?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0012par0119	Mr. Metin denied it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0010par0120	There's a lot to say, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...let the MIT do their job, make it a matter of getting us on the gray list for money laundering and financing terrorism. For example, I'd like to make it a matter for him to be in the front row of Turkey at the International Anti-organized Crime Initiative Group. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0013par0125	Okay, thank you. This is Istanbul MP Zeynel Özen. Here you go, Mr. Caress.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0014par0129	Mr. President, we're discussing the presidential budget today. I wish the President were here, I wouldn't make my speech in his face, but here's his assistant Fuat Oktay. I'm asking him to listen carefully to this conversation. AKP President Erdogan gave a speech to NGOs on 5 December. This is Erdogan's words in Germany, specifically referring to the Federation of Germany: in Germany, especially beyond the Aflamy, without Alevis, there is a new religion, and they are being given money support. Two years before that, 30m euros had financial support for them. He used his statement. One President does not lie, does not slander, does not slander, does not alter, but AKP President Erdogan has slandered the Aleki institutions in Europe in his speech in Ziirt. The claim that they received 30m euros is a total lie. In our country, Dianete 7-8 is earmarked for the budget of the ministry. You think that's the way it is in all democratic countries. Friends, in democratic countries, you don't give a penny to your beliefs, but only to their projects; education, social, cultural projects. Those institutions only receive this support, which has nothing to do with faith and religious activities, this money, the support. Here, for example, look at reports from German official institutions between 2014-2017, and let me explain the budgets that have been transferred to religious projects: within four years, the budget transferred to the Aleki institutions mentioned in Erdoğan's speech is only 596,117 euros, notice that the DITIP and the 4 roofing companies have been transferred to Germany's projects, and the budget is 13 times more than 7,645,220 euros. This is from both the Court of Germany and the Court of Germany... in Turkish, we translated it, we give it to friends who want it. I also made a graph of this. Look, on the graph, the blue you see here is the project support for us Alevis, and the orange is the support for the Dianet and its extensions, friends. This is nothing but calumny and falsehood. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Erdogan also said he had to throw a stone at CHP in his speech, saying: Here are the representatives of these Aliiz Alevi, who would have been nominated by CHP. We have 300 associations abroad, we have a camisole. With the approval of 98 per cent of the 300 Cemevi, our president has run from HDP (HDP) and has also won the HDP (HDP), has become an MP, this is known. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) As you can see from these slanderous statements in Siirt, Erdogan has never been able to break his historical prejudices against us Alevis. Instead of accepting us Alevi as they are, he's trying to manipulate and empty our values. Unfortunately, the thought code of the current government is based on the habit of seeing the lifestyles of people who are not like them as perverted and sick. They're still continuing the historical mission of their past heritage and their reputation for the Aleki massacres. I'm speaking to Erdogan here that you have a history of history with the Alevis. You became the mayor of Istanbul Metropolitan, and a week later you pressed the dozers against the door of Karacaahmet Cemev. Had it not been for the resistance of the people there, the history of Karacaahmet, which was 500 years old, our historical headquarters would have been destroyed.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0015par0133	That's not what happened. It's not like that, it's not like that.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0014par0134	During your prime minister and presidency, you continued to have the same destructive attitude. You have welcomed the statute of limitations of the court murderers, saying, "Good luck." You've given all the lawyers of these massacres positions, ranks, awards in your power. You have released the defendants of the massacre with a special pardon. In the European Court of Human Rights, you did not implement the decisions made in favour of the Alekis. Have you ever taken a positive step that shows that you are also President of the Alekis? Have you ever appointed a governor, chief of police, governor or bureaucrat of the Alekis? Can you give me one concrete example? You didn't put rocks on stones for the Flames. You only know how to destroy, destroy, assimilated, and slander. What pain and happiness have you ever shared with the Alevi?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0016par0136	Every pain, every pain.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0014par0137	Dear friends, we know very well what Erdogan's fuss about the Alevilik without Ali. This is an argument to divide us and turn us against each other. In the flame, the path is one, and the way is one, and the way is one. While we fought for the survival and unity of that road, we knew our lengths and differences as riches. No one can force anyone to drive, and everyone can have their faith as they please. Erdoğan says: "If loving Ali is Alevilik, then I am Aleviy. " By loving Ali, friends are not Alevilik. There are interpretation differences among Sunni sects, there are differences between cults, there are differences in opinion, but I don't consider it my place to enter here as a Flame, but no one has the right to assimilate, isolate, divide, and alter, even President Erdogan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] We know that the real problem here is that the Alevis get equal citizenship rights deprived of their homeland in the country where they live in Europe, where they are considered a community of faith. The European organization that I'm involved in is a non-responsive, non-responsive structure that always insists on the truth, my friends. And it's been nothing but slander and unrealistic perceptions. Aflammation is the ability to make a man's life work according to his faith. Aflammation is the equality of men and women; it's consensual, it's tolerance, it's not hatred, it's peace; it's not eating forbidden; it's seeing the threshold and the threshold, and it's putting man, nature, all living and lifeless beings on the basis of faith. From here we call to Erdogan: Enough is enough! Remove your hands and tongues from Alevi, Kurds, Armenians, Ezidis, women, workers, and all differences.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0017par0143	There's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0014par0144	This language of hatred is nothing but hatred and hostility; you've done it for 20 years, and what happened?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0017par0145	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0014par0146	We're calling Erdogan again, but Erdogan's mood will not hear this call, my friends. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) He continues his understanding of creating new subjects, and continues to use religion to maintain his power.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0017par0147	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0014par0148	We know that the best answer to the language of hatred is that we do not fall into the games of Yazad and Al-Ansar, and neither do we. In this territory, we will eventually, as the People's Democratic Party, the Kurds, Turks, Alevis, Sunnis, and the whole sentence, will live together in a secular, democratic republic, in peace and brotherhood, on the basis of equal rights.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0018par0151	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0014par0152	Now thou hast made this tongue of hate for many years, and hast done it for a thousand and four hundred years: the Flames have neither broken nor bowed down. From now on, we will neither kneel nor bow, nor continue our struggle. Long live the brotherhood of all peoples and faiths, long live the brotherhood and peace!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0018par0154	In turn, the MP for Antalya is Mr Kemal Bulbül.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0019par0156	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the budget of the President of the United States for the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Those who believe in the sentence, those who believe in it, those who are called "multiple" and those who are called "conservative" and those who have forgotten faith; those who are involved in truth, truth, justice, mercy, and a way of life; those who know it; I want to be an equal citizen in this country with my own faith; those who say, "I want to live freely as one of the believers." Those who say, "You must not make a difference of identity, gender, culture, truth, and justice, and love for all of you, with love and respect for all of you, with love and love for all of you. It was founded on March 3, 1924, but it was originally founded in 1424. In fact, it's not that, in fact, the first thing that Ottomans did, was put into the language of every man who stood on the stand, and gave life to the state that he said, "Let man live." And the state that he said there was about algebra, monogamy, racism -- well, memory, I forgot.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0020par0159	Sheikh Edebali.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0019par0160	Sir?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0020par0161	Sheikh Edebali.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0019par0162	Yes, Sheikh Edebali. Thank you. It is important to know that Sheikh Edebali was the first to do his duty of the Ottoman Empire, his first knowledge. And then? There's a man who's been executed, sheik Bedreddin, who's never been mentioned. What else? Look, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President, what year was this year announced by UNESCO? The year of Haci Bektas, the year of Evran and the year of Jonah Emre. I've read the meaning of the four books, I've memorized it. I've seen it when I come to love, it's a long syllable. Shall we rephrase it together? I've read the meaning of four books and I've memorized them. When I came to love, it was a long syllable, said Yunus. What did he include in this love? The human being, the presence of sentences, the Kevnique, the universe, has been involved in this love. Well, you're sorting it out. You know, there's no such thing, there's no such thing, there's no such thing as a terrorist, there's a separatist, there's this denial, there's this... this is hypocrisy. It is hypocrisy to speak of two Jonahs, and Mazelana Jalalalettin, and afterwards to divide them, and that hypocrisy is the DİB, which is at the bottom of its policies, its fetishes, its presidency. Look, he's giving the Ministry of Religious Affairs a ruling on everything, God willing, about everything. (Applause from HDP rows) What is it? Ma'am, obey your husbands. There are places in this country where children who study poverty, hunger, unemployment, and religion are harassed by poverty. Every day there's a country on the road, on the street, where women are being harassed, raped. Why don't you say one thing about it?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0021par0165	It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0019par0166	The President of the Religious Affairs is having a structural problem. Look, you can see everything that exists in the State Department; there's Foreign Affairs, there's Internal Affairs, sir, all state institutions have been micro-structured into the Dianet. Diyanet serves as a missionary from South Africa to Siberia, from China to the United States of America, and while doing this missionary work... look, I've said it many times, I'll say it again: because of the Constitution adopted in 1876, it is budgeted every year, and there is a fact here that there is no share in the Alevi faith and its different beliefs -- my Xenel MP is not leaving in the European countries just now. Now, my dear Roma, the Roma, the Arab Alevi, the Kurdish Alevi have a problem with worship and education in the native language. Romanic, Arabic, Kurdish worship is forbidden. But how is it that there are 40 years of leaders who don't look at the nation with a evil eye, they are rebels in the truth. How can you separate the Roma, Kurdish Flames, the Arab Flame, and celebrate this year as the Year of Hajji Bektas Veli? The faith of the Şafii Kurds is different from Hanefi, and I declare from here: The Head of Religious Affairs is never, according to the House of Hanefi, an institution that conducts faith and worship according to religion and worship; God forbid; God forbid! Why? Because Abu Hanife did not surrender to the tyranny of Abbasi palace, where Abbasi did not conquer, he was one of the greatest resistors and martyrs and truthmakers that history has ever seen, one of love for him. Now you will be Hanefi, and you will give a decree to a palace, and you will be Hanefi, and you will be for persecution. How's that, Hanefiq? In turn, Hanefiness has been contaminated. The faith of the Shaphii is different from the faith of the Hanefi. A Shafii doesn't pray behind a Hanefi teacher, but the Hanefi teachers are sent to the Shafii and are forced to pray after him. The Law on Tevhidi Tedrisat, Tekke and the Law on Religious Affairs and the Law on Religious Affairs is prohibited in this country; the Tevhidi and Shafii are closed; and the Shafii medres, teaching 12 scholars and teaching Kurdish, are closed. Now, Veysel father says: ▪ Don't look down on me, brother, You're gold. Am I brass? We're from the same world. You're silver. Am I hair? I'm saying this to Dianet, I'm saying this to the government. Is your faith in gold and my faith in brass? Is silver your faith and hair mine? It is not your concern whether I go to the truth or go to prayer, whether I walk or walk, whether I stand up in a handstand. What is it to you? See if there's a mosque. They ask Dianet, who immediately gives a decree: "There is only one place of worship in Islam, and it is the mosque." He says, "He is lying, because he doesn't know, because he does not know, because he does not know - write this concept on the mentality of religion, the worship, the fetva, the Tawa, the knowledge, the kelam. We are physicians who condemn the checerimelune in Kerbala. Truth is bigger than politics, I don't speak politics here, I speak truth. So I said, "I've read the meaning of four books, I've memorized them." When it comes to love, it's a long syllable. "The heat is in the chamber, not in the hair. Us is in charge, not on the crown. Then, if thou askest the truth, seek it from Me. Not in Jerusalem, not in Mecca, not in the pilgrimage." said Yunus. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, how to get me to Hakka all the time, how to worship... oh, my friends, look, the graveyards have been destroyed in this country, the children have been slaughtered in this country, the body of a man has been sent to his son in a box, and the Dianet has not made a single sound about it. That is hypocrisy. That is the violation of religion. That's what it's all about to get involved in religious politics. What was the religion supposed to do? The religion could be an arbiter institution. Religion can be a board, and in this board, all beliefs are represented equally, and all beliefs have equal say. That's the only way it can happen. Look, religion is a one-man organization. In fact, there is a president who is copied from the Bible. This one-man system -- I apologize to the Turkish people very much -- is not the Turkish type; the presidency is not the Turkish type of president; it is the type of president of persecution. Shame on the Turkish people! Would the president of the form of persecution be a Turkish-type president? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Of the Ottomans, the Shalvarite twat, You fucking Ottoman bitch, There's nothing to it, nothing to it. Friends, the Ottomans have done the greatest persecution to the Turkish people. Turmen's people have been dragged out of the herd. Turkmen led their people to mass murder. Turkmen refused to accept their people's faith. When it was said that there were Turks in the Terakki. It was actually a step forward, but it took Terakki to racism. Today, the Neottihat Terakkiism is being performed, and the new Admission Terakkiism is being carried out. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0022par0191	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0019par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear Ismet Yilmaz is not here. Ismet Yilmaz, Sivas MP, as far as I know. "I've come to this world. I'm calm, Leave my case, leave it on the couch. Muhammad Ali is my deputy, Leave my case, leave it on the couch. I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm I'm not asked by the Earth woman, I don't leave the office of truth, Leave my case, leave it on the couch. Pir Sultan Abdal is the hive of the world, It's the righteous gentlemen who are leaving, the euphemisms, The court of truth is the high court, I'll leave my case to the couch. [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] O mankind, why don't we set up the court of Pir Sultan? O mankind, come, let us set up the court of Pir Sultan, who looks at 72 nations with a evil eye, and gives to all peoples and beliefs, and let us live as brothers and sisters. Everybody get their dues, don't let them get to the other side. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And the way of Pir Sultan Abdal's village is not asphalt, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz - tell that to İsmet Yilmaz - and to you, Mr. Vice President, and to you... look, the way of Pir Sultan Abdal, the village of Pir Sultan Abdal, who was executed by Ottoman tyranny, is not asphalt. Oh, it's a shame to discriminate against you! I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0023par0212	In turn, Mr. Necdet İpekface of Batman MP.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0024par0214	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, dear people, I salute you all. 17 ministries have been discussed, and today we're interviewing the presidency. What was the presidential government system? When he arrives, there will be rapid economic development, coalition will end, local governments will grow stronger, Parliament will grow stronger. When we look at the stage we've come to, when it comes to the presidential government system, we all think of a disaster, a disaster. What is it? I know everything, I appoint everything. And what was it called? (Turkish type.) Now, friends, when we really go to meet people, when we go from Nevville to Painful, from Truthful to Edirne, if you want to see what kind of situation people are in, you'll see that we're facing disaster. The presidential government system is three years and five months and five days today, since the day the cabinet was announced. They destroyed all autonomous institutions, all independent institutions. Friends, they destroyed the coven. There's no balance control, there's no separation of forces, there's no balance control. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, the Constitutional Court, TİHK, Banking Editing and Controlling Board have destroyed many places. No inspection, no balancing. So what is it? The only thing that's done is we know, we appoint. The only thing known is silence, obey. That's all there is to know. And what happened when we got here? In politics, in politics, in law, those who destroy balance control on many issues now destroy balance control in the economy, and when we ask, we have been elected with 50+1, this presidential government system has been approved. The Entity Fund is not under the control of the Entity Fund Parliament, which is Turkey's largest money stamp business, but by the presidency. You have turned the Court into a public tender. They're taking out a lot of institutions that are often called "istina" and "extraordinary." Almost, if they do not give up, they will say, "There is no need for the Court here in case of disaster. What is disaster? He's the government. They're gonna take that out of control. What's another one? They're taking out agents, agencies outside the House's control. Now, when that happens, the economy goes to disaster, and they call it a midterm economy, they say a new plan every time something comes up, but there's nothing new, there's only one thing known: just as democracy has fallen to the bottom, just as freedoms have fallen to the bottom, as economic rights have fallen to the bottom. The farmer's miserable, the laborer's miserable and the peasant's miserable, the woman's miserable, the student's miserable, the people's hungry. Look, guys, the fertilizer prices... a lot of people told me on the whole budget tour. The farmer, who produces potatoes in Nevşehir, can't sell potatoes for $3; see, he can't sell it; in Ağrı, in Van, in Batman, in Afyon, in Antalya, people can't buy potatoes; in Antalya, the scissors are opened so that someone is eating it at his table, someone is eating it. You know what they say here?? If I take this away, they'll say Batmana, Vana, what is it really?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0025par0218	It's the first time we've seen it. Up, up, let's see.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0024par0219	But as long as you're eating this, you can't see who planted it or who ate it, and people are starving. You can't solve it, you can't face it, if you can't face the truth, you really don't understand the farmer or the worker or the consumer.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0026par0220	Is that palace fruit?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0024par0221	What happened to the ministers in the presidency? Friends, apart from the ministers, there are presidentialities outside the ministries, and what? There are four offices. The ministers are coming here, are they in charge of us? They come in the budget once, they come in to the Plan and Budget Commission; other than that, they're not responsible to us, they're responsible to the President. And what is it? Presidents and offices are actually a parallel ministry; they've converted it into a parallel ministry. Let's see what freedom is, let's see what poverty is, let's see what freedom is, let's see what poverty is, let's see what it is, let's see what it is, let's see what it is, let's just come in here and cast a hammock, and it's a polarizing language, and it's a polarizing language, and it's a security policy. People want trust, trust, not security, trust. When you do that, you open the way for peace, you open the way for the economy, but you walk away. You've made it so difficult to ask questions, to be questioned; there's an investigation about whoever's asking questions; but believe me, people are no longer afraid to ask questions; the students came screaming at us. They said, "We can't stand it." Tomorrow the health workers are going on strike. What have you done? You've corrupted the working environment. You're talking about strategy. The strategy is to get a law out of the way, not to break the working peace; not to break the peace between physicians and health workers and other workers. You're turning it into this because you don't understand strategy. We said there's a crisis. You said there's a crisis. You said there's a crisis, but we're growing. Now you're saying there's an outside altar. When something happens in there, you're saying there's a terror. If there's no explanation, you're saying there's an outside altar. And what are these outer altars? We filed a motion to investigate, you didn't investigate, you refused. Yeah, well, we'll look into it, but people know that when people go to the market, when people send their kids to school, when people go to the hospital, people see that they're getting poor in their day-to-day life, and what do you say? It's not inflation, it's a price increase. Are you kidding me? You know, they say, "I can't eat, I can't eat, I'm hungry; when you and our people who have come to this situation and you don't fix it, the only argument is that you bring it to the National Security Council outside of this policy, and you open it to debate the economic situation, and you declare mobilization. And you can't solve that; to solve real problems is to face the truth, to focus on real problems. What was it? We've shown it once again, friends, now, sometimes, you know, they say, close your eyes, think about it. As a physician, as a health worker, think, close your eyes, when you say to Turkey... Van, Mush, Bitlis, Haqkari, Mardin, Batman, Şırnak, Siirt, Urbana, Diyarbakır, Ağrı, Kars, İğdır, and Ardahan; what are these provinces, you see? You know, you were saying that the singing service, you know, you were saying, what's this, like, a long-distance place, you know, where you're talking in Kurdish, you know, where you're saying that you're from, you know, where you're from, where you're from, what's this, what's this, fate? Is the ground poor or above ground poor? But why are these people poor, these people without freedom? Open your eyes, open up and face the truth; when you don't do it, you don't face the truth and you can't solve the problems. If you set out with a eunuch, if this is still the same level for 100 years while preparing for the 100th year of the republic, everyone must face the truth and find a solution to the problem. When you don't have a real name, you always go backwards, you don't move forward. So facing the truth is the most natural right for all of us and the path to peace, the path to economic development; unless you do that, you can't move forward. You used to call it an extremities, but the same President said earlier: "The country where foreign countries invest the most in Europe and the Middle East, Turkey." How does it change in a week? How does it change in a week? You think we have fish memory, that's what you think this society is? Believe me, get out on the street, it's not the street, it's not the people. The public has seen the truth now, and they're screaming, and they're coming. You need to deal with these, you need to talk to them. The new minister, the new minister, has arrived. Now, as the new minister sits down, he says: "I am not going to rule despot. " Trust me. Who are you? How can we trust you? You came in third, you came in fourth. You'll be gone tomorrow. Where's the dollar been since you got here? Yeah, just use the word "peace," just say: "We'll talk about everything face to face, we'll talk about it with democratic mass organizations, NGOs, unions." But you don't have a choice in that. So, is that a coincidence? It's a conscious choice. That's why HDP says war, palace, capital is a budget, so HDP is saying it everywhere. Not unless you face them. What does the minister say? The minister says: "It's not the work of any external altars, it's not foreign intervention." But don't you think they'll ask the Office of Strategy? The AKP says that there are no extremities. The Minister says: "There are no extremities." Who are we supposed to believe? So, the minister says something, he knows he's leaving, and he's trying to fix it?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0027par0229	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0024par0230	The way out of here, if you really want to deal with the economy, is with the economy and democracy and peace. When you look at the world's economic level in good countries, with peace, with democracy, with freedom, the economy parallels. In despot governments, one lives in rule, and the vast majority faces hunger. I'd also like to say, Mr. Vice President, that I said in the Plan Budget: Kurdish, the red line of Kurds. Respect for Kurdish is respect for the Kurdish Republic, and is there a Kurdish publication in the presidency -- three years and five months and five days of service, one service? I looked at the literature; there's English, there's Arabic, there's Russian, there's Japanese, there's German, there's French, there's Kurdish. Then, does speaking Kurdish mean that only when you come in for propaganda comes in and puts on a ball and puts on a ball and lo lo lol? Kurds don't want propaganda anymore, they don't want audiences. [[Applause from HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have to face it, and to do that, we have to keep fighting. HDP always says: Freedoms, peace, democracy will pave the way for the country. We also want freedom in Kurdish. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0028par0237	In turn, it belongs to Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0029par0240	Thank you, Mayor. I've made a commitment to the Defense Industry Chairman's budget. I salute the general council and the people who are watching us at the head of their television. Dear friends, a study by the Stockholm Institute for International Peace Studies shows that despite the outbreak of Covid-19, defence spending worldwide has reached about $2 trillion. Again, Turkey is number 16 of the most defence spending countries in 40 countries. As in many countries around the world, our country has been given enormous resources to the defence industry. Again, most of the 20 companies selling global military supplies and equipment are made up of U.S. companies. We're dealing with an industry that sells weapons by creating war and confusion all over the world and actually converts human suffering into money. To sell more weapons or to buy more weapons, unknown enemies are being created. By turning the people against each other, this order is actually intended to be maintained. Dear friends, here's the budget for the defense industry to figure out whether a budget is a war budget or a public budget. When we look at the 2022 budget, we're looking at a budget for financing the palace and the war, just like the previous budgets. Look, it's $2246 billion for weapons and security expenses. That number was 45 billion dollars in 2014, but now, in the 2022 budget, that number was brought to such a huge point. So in almost eight years, this budget has been raised fivefold. At the same time, according to an analysis of the President's Strategy and Budget Co-operation Report for 2022, the budget was calculated as $350 billion in security funds, including the revenues, investments and the Defense Industry Support Fund of five large companies operating in the field. It's just, of course, the tip of the iceberg, and then there's the part of the billion dollars that don't show. There is also a share that has been excluded under the guise of covered funds or secret service expenses, which is the lion's share, and the lion's share is unfortunately spent on war, death, and death. How do you create these defense spendings? Of course it's done by debt. And just as this disproportionate increase in military spending has forced growth, it also puts more tax burdens on the back of the public, with indirect taxes, and that's part of the reason for the inequality of income. By creating political power, crises and contradictions, by insisting on war policies, he spends a great deal of the country's resources on weapons industry, which, of course, we don't have to spend so much money on guns. Instead of war and security policies, if we were to insist on peace policy, we could spend today's budget on guns, tanks, cannons to us workers, poor people, women, farmers and IITs. Our country's very own resources, of course, are big enough to solve the problems that are getting gangrene today, the economic problems. As a matter of fact, a report by the AKP President of Economic Affairs showed that the cost of the war economy to this country was too much for both material and spiritual loss; since I do not have time, I will not pass on the details of it, curious friends may look into it. If it had been invested in the peace economy and politics of this country today, Turkey would not have had to collect bread out of garbage; Turkey would have been a country in its territory defending democracy, peace and freedom; instead of exporting paramilitary powers to its neighbours, law, justice, equality and freedom would have been an exemplary country. But the AKP, unfortunately, insists on this war policy in these security policies, because it is a party that grows by feeding on the crisis and sustains its power. With these policies, it doesn't just destabilize our country, it's also a party that carries instability to the Middle East. For years, people have suffered memories that can't be erased. Only the painting in Syria sums it up. All of this is being legitimized and done only so that the Kurds don't get a right and a law inside and out. So, frankly, if the Kurds go into space and plant a sapling, and the name of this seedling, you will declare space a terrorist. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Kurdish phobia and opposition have become such that the AKP is now truly held in mind. There's a Kurdish problem that's globalizing, and instead of contributing to the solution to this problem, you're responding with discrimination and aberrant policies. That's why you feed jihadist groups in Syria with the money you cut off from the people's throats and taxes. And what do these groups you feed do? In Syria, they became a machine against human rights, committing crimes against humanity. What are they doing? Look, they kidnap people, they torture them, they demand ransom, they take people's property, they kill people, they commit a series of crimes against humanity, which are reported every month by international organisations in the United Nations. Take a closer look at the reports, there are actually crimes against humanity. But don't forget that their crimes are also written in AKP's household. It's not enough that you've put the country's resources behind these gangs, but it's also a disgrace created by these gangs for our country. See, one of the reasons why the OECD (OECD) was placed on the gray list by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) of the OECD (OECD). You make it sound like there's a becca problem, and you insist on saying it, but we know there's no beka problem in our country, so the AKP has a problem losing their seats. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, another problem is, of course, SIHAs. I mean, these armed drones, they're now being criticised worldwide, because they're back to the vehicles that execute people without a trial. If you remember, between 2004 and 2011, civilians were shot in Pakistan, 875 were slaughtered, and the world showed very serious reflexes. The AKP's power at the time was quite critical of them, but as soon as the drones in Turkey, the SIHAs, the groom's Bayraktar, we found out that the AKP's power actually began to defend these weapons in its brutal way.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0030par0249	You're uncomfortable with SIHA, you're uncomfortable with UAV!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0029par0250	You will recall that on August 31, 2010, four people were attacked at a picnic site 20km from Hakkari city centre, one of which lost their lives, Mehmet Basek. And Abraham took advantage of Sak, and Ismail Aydın, and Musa Tarhan. Of course, this terrible attack was not called to account, it was not answered; it remained with the dead. Now the drone attacks have a new target. Where? That's the ancient home of the Ezidi people, Shengal. We wonder why these attacks on the most oppressed and peaceful people in Mesopotamia and the Middle East are really happening. For tens of thousands of years, even though it has passed through the decree of genocide 74 times, the people of Ezidi want to live in their own geography, they want to resist, and they want to protect their own existence. In 2014, the Babylonians attacked Shengal, slaughtering thousands of Ezidi. As a result of these attacks, 450 thousand Ezidi have been scattered around the world as refugees. Again, nearly 7,000 women were kidnapped as slaves, sold in slave markets, we still can't hear from 2,700 women, and their fate is unknown. It is impossible to really understand these attacks against the people who have experienced the greatest tragedy of the 21st century. I mean, we don't know why it's so uncomfortable for the people of Ezidi, who have had 74 genocides, whose population is almost extinct, to defend themselves, to rule themselves in their homeland. Now, it's being presented as a security detail, Shengal. So it's okay for you to be 100 meters away from you, all these massacres on the other side of the border, all those ISIS barbarians who cut off people's heads and burned their soldiers alive, but a thousand miles away, all these atrocities, all these sufferings, the people who have been in danger and security for the AKP?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0031par0255	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0029par0256	So now you want us to believe that? We see every attack against the people of Ezidi as a continuation of the ISIS mentality. Once again, we salute the struggle of the oppressed people. I want to express that we are with the oppressed people. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Yes, dear friends, the budget of 2023 is not going to be a war budget, the budget of 2023 is not going to be a budget of the palace, the budget of 2023 is going to be an equal, fair, democratic, right-shared budget with the peoples. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0032par0261	Yes, we will now begin the speeches on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0033par0262	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, you'll be able to assess after the end of the groups, if that's all right, I'd like to speak to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0032par0263	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0033par0264	Mr. President, thank you. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Of course, we listened carefully to the speakers, we wrote down their proposals, their findings. In this evening's speech, he will already provide the executive answers, but there have been some accusations against our group. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give them a few minutes. Mr. President, first of all, the AK PARTY is the equivalent of the nation's will. WHEN the EC PARTY is insulted, it should be known that it is an insult to millions who vote for it and support it. In your language, I'd like to express the rejection of statements that sometimes don't fit the bench. Mr. President, politics shouldn't be done with unsubstantiated allegations, hints, threats, insults. Sadly, people cover their ears to the other side, to the other side, to the other side, and to the other side, says Ismet Special.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0034par0269	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0033par0270	That's exactly what happened today. For us, that sect is not that segregation, Mr. President, for us the brotherhood of 85 million is essential. Because of this understanding, Turkey has begun to overcome two centuries of problems in its region, starting to break its chains. We don't look at the cult when we're throwing the governor. We shouldn't look. We do not ask about the religion of the imam which We used to pray for. Everyone who prays is aware of it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0035par0271	Name one governor.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0033par0272	The worst language is the language that separates, differentiates, but in doing so, it's the language that tells us that others always separate, that others differentiate. Mr. President, for the first time in our time, Alevilik has entered the curriculum, you know. For the first time, Alevilik research at Malatya University...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0036par0275	Now, this will be the latest group vice presidents to make the evaluation according to the previous decision.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0033par0276	In the evening?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0036par0277	Now, you asked for a promise according to 60, I gave you a minute, I gave you another minute; shall we continue?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0033par0278	Mr. President, your appreciation is yours, but when we talk about it, let's consider it at the end of the group. Didn't we say, friends?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0036par0279	No, I'm not saying anything, so the other group president... Mr. Beştaş wants a word, and he's right.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0037par0280	I haven't asked yet, Mayor, not if he doesn't pick on me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0036par0281	What are we gonna do? We're back to square one. In that respect, here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0038par0282	Mr. President, I don't mean to disrespect your appreciation, but I'd like to say that in the interview with you, anyone who wants a word after the end of the group will get it. We've talked about it in a more reasonable way before we go to the court. We've talked about it, so I want to make a promise, Mr. President. For the first time, Alevilik was the research center at Malatya University. In the way of the people, our Aleki brothers are indispensable. For us, the flammable is faith from different colors in our world. It's not fair to see evangelism outside the practice of Islam, to Islam, to history, but most of all to the Alevia, Mr. President. We're also looking at examples of his efforts to take the flame out of the matter of faith and turn it into a folkloric element.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0039par0284	Is Jehovah's house of worship?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0038par0285	This land is the land of Jonah and of Mezlanah, and of Haji Bektas. I would like to express that our citizens of Alevi, like all of our citizens, are the original citizens of the Republic of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I beg your pardon for a moment.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0040par0288	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0038par0289	Do we have any shortages? There's got to be. Is there anything to do? There's got to be. However, I would like to say that this language does not respond in this land, that this language is of no use to anyone. My advice is to build a preeminent language that refers to the brotherhood of 85 million. I'd like to point out, Mr. President, that we are all our ways together with the charge of evangelism leading us to the path of power. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0041par0292	Just a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0042par0293	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0041par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me put it this way: the European Court of Human Rights has made decisions regarding the algebras and mandatory religious lessons. Did you or did you not apply them? But I know it was not implemented. The talks that our orators have made here are to allow 84 million citizens living in Turkey to live as equals and freedoms, regardless of faith, language, religion, identity. But they're still unrecognisable institutions of worship status, and still with mandatory religious lessons, the faith of our Alevi citizens is denied, and I mean it's a great injustice, a great injustice. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0043par0297	Mr. Special, is there a request?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0044par0298	No, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0043par0299	Okay, thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 Now, let's begin the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Mussad, did you have a request for a word?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0045par0337	No, no.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0043par0338	The first statement is from Konya MP Abdullatif Sener. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0046par0341	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Today Turkey turned into a place of fire. Markets, markets, grocery stores, grocery stores, prices are going up like missiles, all products have terrible increases; the country is miserable and ruined. Of course there's someone responsible. This is the current government, the current government, who doesn't know what to do, who changes a policy, who can't provide a stable solution. Therefore, Mr. President is responsible, the presidential government system is responsible. With this system, with this structure, and with that understanding, no problem in this country can be solved. Look, according to his new political line recently, what does the government say? We'll lower the interest, raise the exchange rate. Then the production will increase, imports will decrease, exports will increase, stability will increase, and the current will be overrated, he says. Dear friends, none of this is going to happen just by increasing the courtship, by launching the exchange rate like a missile. First, what is the nature of the firms in this country, what is the situation, what problems are there in the production structure of Turkey, how should these be overcome; you deepen all problems, as you can't solve any problems in this country by making random lotteryes, cari deficits without considering them. As a matter of fact, this is the picture that happened in Turkey today. Look, my dear friends, this is what the government says, but it says the opposite in its budget documents to the House. We're going to close the cari deficit. They've been preaching for a few months, we're looking at budget documents, there's a $47 billion foreign trade deficit in 2022, there's a $21 billion deficit, and that's not enough, there's an external trade deficit in 2023, and there's an external trade deficit in 2024. Now, either your budget is wrong or what you're saying is wrong, so make a decision, my dear, a decision maker! Such an unstable country, those who run the country must be firm in their policies, they need to know what they're doing, but there's a government that doesn't know what they're doing. Look, the job doesn't just stay here, you're saying: look, we've given a lot of money in the last few months. In that sense, what you say and what you do are not true. Aman, industrial production is increasing. The same thing has happened before in times of crisis, in the 2008-2009 crisis, in the 2018, 2019 crisis, even in 2001 crisis, a certain trend in industrial production began to fall again shortly after. As a matter of fact, your latest data shows that there's been a decline trend in industrial production growth. So the policies need to be permanent, you need to know the structure of the companies, you need to know the production problems. Look, 860,000 companies have been vetted, interest costs in total are only 3%. You say we're going to lower the interest; we're going to raise the company, the companies, the exporter. Friends, the interest in its costs is only 3 per cent, but there's a bigger problem for wooing companies, there's a $122 billion deficit, and these companies are facing 586 billion Turkish dollars in losses, court damage. I don't know about this without considering the competition. It doesn't work that way, dear friends. But there's another thing: when they say that, they don't have a stable and regular policy. They're lowering policy interest, and now he's trying to dry it four times by using the Central Bank's non-owned currency to bring it down. What if he's following the same policy, trying to raise it dry with a political tool, dry with another policy tool, a government? Three times he lowers policy interest, four times he trades. Guys, he has to make a decision, look, this government has to decide what he's doing. Now, about the interest, there's a problem here, too. There's nas. The government says it's about interest, but it's not true. Why isn't he telling the truth? First of all, this government doesn't reduce interest, this government has reduced policy interest three times, but it increases policy interest but the Treasury's debt interest. What's policy interest? The Federal Reserve used it to give money to banks, it was interest, it's interest you dropped, but you're increasing the Treasury's debt interest. As a matter of fact, just the other day, the Treasury borrowed money from the Central Bank with 15 per cent, and in just a few days the banks gave it to the Treasury with 27.7 per cent, which is 51 per cent. They put the money the government took out of one pocket in the other pocket and made a 50% profit. I thought you were dropping the interest. Or, look, the interest on car loans is going up, the interest on needs loans is going up; it's up to 23-24 per cent. I thought you were lowering interest, lowering interest because it's how? Of course, I don't want to say: "Do you believe in part of the book and deny part of it? There is no such thing, but if you want to talk about it, let me give you a word: Look at the 2nth verse of Saff Surah. [[The reading of the 2nd verse of Saff by the preacher]] I mean, why do you say things you don't do? Why do you say things you don't do? Dear friends, but business isn't here. Look, even Ahmet Hodja the Cübbelı warned the government not to speak of such things. He said, "You're alienating people from religion." But after a while -- there is a great poverty, the country has returned to a fire site, and the country has come to this state because of its own incompetence and wrong policies, and to make it up for this, our Lord has seized you again -- with a little fear and hunger and loss of property, lives and goods." Dear friends, look, it's a wrong policy when people are tired and bored and you read such verses and you can't alienate people from Dinimubinislam. What does this look like? In the words of His Holiness Ali, when describing a certain group, he said: "They speak the word of God in falsehood." It is not for him to speak of superstitions as if he were pleased with rights. It's wrong, and it's wrong, and it's wrong for those who rule, just as it hurts the country. Look, I'd like to give you an example from the Ottoman era: they used to use different fuels in mosques, like olive oil and so on. They used olive oil in a mosque near Basra. After the evening prayer, when the imam came out, he saw that the olive oil in the lamps outside had run out all the time.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0047par0351	Here you go, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0046par0352	One day he was suspicious and hidden. At that time, a bearded pilgrim uncle came up to the stairs where the imam had kept oil, and a fresh loaf in his bosom, and a piece of the loaf he had taken, and he said: "El Beytü Beytullah." Then eat this, O Hadji Abdullah. Imam was surprised when he was eating his bread, but then he came out and said, "You're right, it's God's house. You're right. This mace also belongs to God. He called you "Hajji Abdullah." Now bear with me, O Hadji Abdullah. He said, "Do you eat, or do you not eat?" [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On the other hand, the hand of the demons is stronger than the mace of Hajji Abdullah, and the mace of the imam. You'd better not talk about it based on nassa. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0048par0357	The order belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0049par0360	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss today's budget of 2022 for five-alarm gangs, palaces and supporters. All you've been thinking about so far is your allies and your honey-laden bids, and I'm going to try to explain to you the status of the nobles who sent us here, the citizens you didn't put in the budget, because you didn't budget for the weird guru. This is the budget, the subcontractor's budget. In a country where the cost of the palace is $13m and a citizen is having more trouble making a living every day, there would be a decent budget. Your share of the budget is to enjoy, and your share of the citizen's share is to tighten the belt, to suffer. So, this is a budget budget.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0050par0364	Slowly, slowly... we hear it, slowly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0049par0365	Who's got a boo-boo? In this budget, there's a farmer who can't get the fertilizer from 150 lira a bag to 750 lira. The farmers sent this fertilizer to our fields no more, and we will no longer be able to produce it; go tell the AKP MPs to the palace, Deputy, we cannot make our voices heard. In this budget, there are manufacturers who can't afford to feed 250 lira a sack to their animal. That's the bait that people can't take, and they're sending their animals to slaughter. Oh, speaking of manufacturers, we've raised the milk to $4.70. There's no less remorse than giving you a 30 lira raise to eat the next day. In this budget, there are mothers who now have to buy diapers for their babies because 25 diapers are up to 79 lira. Why are you laughing? Why are you laughing and mocking? Of course, you don't know that mothers can't buy diapers and food for their children in Porsches and Mercedes.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0051par0368	We know, we know.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0052par0369	Don't be rude, don't be rude!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0049par0370	My retired Uncle Mehmet, who couldn't pay the gas and electricity bill on a $1.610 pension, has a job in this budget. Speaking of pensions, Erdogan said we increased their pension 27 times. I calculated, if he had told the truth, he'd have been paid 7,500 lira for labor today, $13,500 for a pensioner, but where is he? What kind of crazy are you guys going through? In this budget, the true hero of pandemics, the one who puts their lives on the line in Covid, but who the AKP sees a lot of pay raises, doctors, nurses, midwives, health workers. In this budget, there's a law on disabled people who have been through all kinds of obstacles in life, who you don't hire or who you cut down on because of water. Instead of teaching in schools, there are teachers who work other jobs because you don't do their assignments, who don't get any jobs, who don't get appointed. Each of the three students has a saying of a generation that you pretend to be in the same class, even though one of them has not the ability to study in the pandemic. There are teachers in this budget whose salary is equal to 1 republic gold, where you're trying to discredit them every day; they're staffed, they're paid, they're contracting. On January 1, 2021, there is a pledge of minimum wage fees, which have a salary of $385, but have been reduced to $200 today, which continue to melt almost every hour. Even though you have promised in this budget, there are still rental car drivers that you don't hire, mess hall employees, HBYS employees, labs, radiology imaging workers, PTT workers, road workers, contract workers, municipal company workers who don't have a staff due to a December 4th requirement. In this budget, there is an affinity for those who are old in retirement, who you make fun of called double stitches, which you cheat during every election period and don't give them their rights. The budget includes temporary forest, DSI, National Education, Nature Protection, National Parks, sugar factories, non-existent contract workers with TIGEM employees, privatisation victim ex- 4/B, 4/C.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0053par0372	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0049par0373	In this budget, we will not hire workers while selling sugar factories. There are 400 sugar workers whose bread you promised to buy. In this budget, the middle pole, the tradesman, who can't replace the goods he's selling because of the raises, who's struggling with raw material shortages, who you've left to his fate with the difficulty of living, with the debt. In this budget, the bakers, the bakers, who have to raise their assets because the flour weighs from $5 a pound to $12 a pound. In this budget, the military students whose lives you shut down, whose lives you have ruined, who have been tried for obeying the order of the only crime, are the members of the People's Democratic Party (PKK) who have been charged with non-obsession or acquittal or have never been investigated. There's a lot of truckers in this budget who can't change their tires, who can't pay their fines, who can't pay their payments, who can't pay their payments. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0054par0377	Burcu, tell him to file a report. They can't.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0049par0378	And that's why this budget is a decent budget; that's why this budget is a bad budget; this budget is a bad budget.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0055par0380	Yes, Amasya MP Mustafa Tuncer... Here you go, Mr. Tuncer.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0056par0383	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of 2022. Today's economic crisis and the poverty of the nation have not suddenly come. Today's conclusion is the result of 19 years of shortsighted and bad governance. I'd like to briefly explain this to you with two examples from the Court's reports. Two institutions, KIT; first is Meat Mine. The service building of the Mine is decided to build a new service building because it does not meet the need, and the current building is transferred to the treasury in 2012. The protocol for building a new service building is also signed on 10/11/2011. According to the protocol, a service building will be built by TOKİ on a park of 11.386 square metres in the District of Karakusun, and the sale will be paid in cash by the Eti Mine. The amount of 34 million 158 thousand liras determined by protocol is paid by the Mine of Meat on 25 November 2011. About seven years later, the contract was signed by TOKI in 2018 to build the Eti Mine service building, and the contractor signed with the company at $11,500,000. On May 11, 2018, the place is being delivered, but while the 7.5 per cent of the work is being completed, the contractor is slowing down work by the firm, and the contractor is demanding additional funding according to Article 32 (3161) of Law. This request is accepted. The total funding is raised to $193m, with the presidential writing dated February 6, 2019. The contractor said he would finish the job on 31/12/2019, but that is not happening either. When the Eti Mine, which passed over its property in 2011, does not have a new service building, it holds a rental space for the service building. He pays $39m in rent for the first three years in advance until he moves into his new building in total, according to the payment of $11,849,000 in February 12. The meat mine, which wants to own a new service building, happens to be found at home as it goes to Tosya. He kills his own service building, he buys the new land from TOKI, paying $34m in advance in 2011, and he has to pay $39m due to construction that never ends. The new construction is being funded by 193 million liras by the end of 2019. The damage done to the state by the Eti Mine and the TOKI (TİKI) has exceeded the total amount of $266m from 2011 to 2019 for the construction of a service building alone. If he had spent 266 million liras in concrete instead of developing and multiplying products, both the institution and our country would have won, unfortunately, the mentality, the same mentality. Again, another agency, State Supplies Office, DMO. The centre in Ladderköy, where the DMO has been operating as of 1964, has been transferred to Gebze, where the institution has rented to carry out its activities. Later, a total of 100,620 square metres of valuable land and buildings belonging to the Ministry of Finance, and 195,765 square meters of U.S. city-designed Çayırova, Tekirdağ, Isparta, Sivas, Kolya, Samsun, Sakarya and Ankara to build a new printing business facility. So far, everything seems normal, but the real lack of insight, shortsightedness, and inability to do business begin after that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0057par0388	Come in, come in, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0056par0389	When the DMO has applied to build a business facility in the place he has taken over in Çayırova, the answer is that he can't just sit still. He learns that there are historical artifacts, such as Fatih Sultan Mehmet Otak, His Majesty's Fountain, the prayer place and the bridge, which has been handed over to DMO, which has been declared a protection area by the Council for the Protection of the Occurded Cultural Assets, and can't even get a nail in this place. For God's sake, the head of the great DMO, didn't you ever look where you got it? If you buy a house, you'll study it to the curtain line, but when it comes to people's money, you'll bury the head in the sand. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The institution, which understands that it can't even nail the landscape in the meadowova, is again the Ministry of Finance, and is tramping my 6.772 square metres in Eagle. Unfortunately, the institution, which has never seen its new location and does not even control its municipality, finds out that the construction of the land that it has taken over in Eagle (Eagle) is not yet complete, and then, after the application of 18, it learns that it is only 55 per cent available for construction.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0057par0393	Thank you, Congressman.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0056par0394	Mr. President, can you give me ten seconds, please? As a matter of fact, the State Supplies Office has been paying rent to this place for over a decade -- 2011, 2021 years -- for more than a decade.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0057par0397	This is Mr. Servet Üssal, the Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0058par0400	Dear President, my fellow congressmen, there's a lot to say about the budget, but we don't have a budget to see ahead of us, friends. You know what we're dealing with as a budget? There's debt, there's interest, there's crisis, there's poverty, there's corruption, there's lies, there's unemployment, there's human rights violations, but the palace is in a good mood. The daily expenses of Saray are 13 million. He just said Burcu is spending $500,000 an hour on the palace. I'll tell you something interesting, folks, the medical lab in the palace has $51 million a year, $51 million worth of material. Full health care for one person is provided at court; everything is for friends for the palace, for Erdogan. I remember a saying by Necip Fadil. You know what he says? If only a wolf could control the lambs. Yes, dear friends, there's also a TİİK President in this country, our president, Kilicdaroğluna, who closes the doors, the owner's voice is the head of TİK; AKP works as the mayor of the district. THE decisions are very important, why? Because minimum wage, civil servants, pensions will be paid from there. Mr. President, the state institutions are not your shaman. He said to Mr. Kilicdaroglu. What I'm saying is that Erdogan, who took the bureaucrats out of office by direct instruction: The institutions, the state institutions, are not yours either, Mr. Erdogan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the economy is ruined, but Erdogan has no economic model in mind, my friends. The Chinese model is Erdogan's game of "Cambaza" Because the Chinese model is an investment-related growth model, guys, which doesn't work for us, where is there an investment? The Court says we are looking for a new model. The Treasury Minister has assessed the new economic model. Hey, guys, it's like a Nasrettin Hodja joke, country. Nebati, sorry, they asked Hoxha Nasrettin: "Does the lake hold any yeast?" The teacher replied: "If it doesn't, I'll be sad." He says that if it doesn't, my friends will be sad! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Political power thinks it will reduce inflation when it reduces interest, while the exchange costs are far more friends than inflation. We owe about $600 billion -- external debt, internal debt. We melted 300 billion dollars a month on national income. Let me give you two interesting examples of how bad the TL is, my friends: Apple recently opened a store in Turkey. If there's $1.17, I'll sell it to you. Another thing: there's a pre-swap deal with Qatar, we extended the swap deal for a year, but Qatar was conditioned, you know what he said? If it was $1.24... he said, and ours accepted lamb and lamb, my friends. So, guys, what's the Central Bank doing now? He's making a lot of money, guys. The market's money supply has increased by 45 percent in the last three months. Look, guys, I'm talking about inflation in 2022 with taxes, raises, money printing, I'm telling you all, I'm especially warning the AKP ranks.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0059par0409	Empty desks, empty!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0060par0410	There's five of them, five of them, empty!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0058par0411	Inflation exceeds 100 per cent, over 100 per cent, don't believe the owner's voice! Guys, you know what Numan Survivor says these days? If you don't believe in TÜİK and Central Bank for the prices, will you believe in the people at the liquor table? (Mr. Survivor, citizens are looking at meat, milk, cheese, toilet paper in the market shelves; that's where he learns the prices. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, Mr. Erdogan explains the recession of the economy with verses. Friends, look, I will say a verse, which says that when we want to destroy a land, we bring rich, thieves, corrupt rulers to its head, and destruction begins. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I brought up the allegations concerning the corruption of the son-in-law of Abdulkadir Selvi. Having become a groom, Emre Örcen took bribes at the Ministry of Industry, and later carried them to the office of Zehra Selvi, the wife of Selvi.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0061par0418	Here, pack it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0058par0419	I asked Varank the scandals, and Varank did not deny the allegations. Once again, where are the inspector's reports? Has there been an investigation? Yes, is Emre working at the palace now? Yes, my friends, would you look at our misfortune when discussing the 4th Industrial Revolution, artificial intelligence, climate change, 5th generation technologies? We're talking about suicides, poverty, crisis, corruption. In 20 years, you've spent billions in air, land, water, and Ahlat. You've built palaces, you've told your people. But you know what the poet says: "O wall, your wall, the speed of our strength, the speed of our power, the smoke of a religious man's promise, the heart of a ghost, the unstoppable flow of history," says the poet. It's coming. It's coming. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0062par0425	Mr. Tamer, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0063par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we just received some sad news. İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu Bey's esteemed older brother, İsmail Hakkı Kalyoncu Rahmetirahman. My condolences to the entire Kalyoncu family, especially Hasan Kalyoncu. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0064par0429	God rest his soul. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0065par0431	Mr. President, we have just learned that we wish our MP Hasan Kalyoncu, our condolences to his family, and to his brother, God's mercy.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0064par0432	Mr. Mussad, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0066par0433	Thank you, Mr. President. We, too, as the Good Party and personally offer our condolences to Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu, our fellow MP, and to his grieving family, to the loved ones of the deceased. May his grave be light and his place be in heaven. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0067par0436	Mr. Levent, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0068par0437	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, today we began the day with a sad news story. Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu, brother of our party's İzmir MP, Ismail Hakk Kalyoncu was already being treated for a long time, he was in a difficult time, and today we've been informed of his death. We're very sad as a group, too. We offer the deceased the mercy of God, and the condolences of his family, especially our deputy, and may God make his place a paradise, and that he may atone for what he has done. I'd also like to express my personal thanks to all party groups for their condolence messages by the party groups. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0069par0441	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0070par0442	Thank you, Mr. President. And I, İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu, want to express my condolences and patience to his family, to all his loved ones. I'd also like to offer my condolences to the MHP Group. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0071par0445	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0072par0446	Mr. President, thank you. And we wish the brother of our Hassan Kalyoncu MP God's mercy, and his place will be in heaven. We offer our condolences to the MHP Group and our deputy, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0071par0448	Mr. Vice President, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0073par0449	Thank you, Mr. President. In the same way, in the name of the execution, I pray to Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu, and to his family his condolences, and to his brother who has passed away, God bless his place.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0071par0451	May God have mercy on him, and be patient with his family, and his abode will be paradise. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 Mr. Mehmet Göker is in charge of Burdur. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0074par0490	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, and I am Mr. Hasan Kalyoncu, our MP, who just passed away, asking God's blessings on his brother, the head of the MHP Group and its loved ones. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been discussing a budget that we can't even touch since the commission phase, and there have been no amendment motions brought on by the opposition. And the budget we're talking about right now is the president's budget. According to 2021, the daily spending of the presidential budget is 59 million, enormous money. So the palace spends $41,000 a minute, and when my five-minute speech is over, it will have spent about 205,000. While the citizen struggles with poverty, hunger, the protection army of the palace is paid 870,000 a day, $26,200,000 a month, enormous money. If we hit minimum wage, the salary of 9.275 minimum wage goes to monthly protection. Yeah, from the ranks of power to this budget, congratulations go to fun, it's been like this for a week. But in this budget, there's no good news for workers, workers, pensioners, civil servants, and those who look forward to a job.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0075par0492	Yes, there is, Mr. President, there are many.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0074par0493	Now, in the past few days, there's been a lot of talk here about this budget. I've done a compilation on the talks the ministers have made in the past budgets this week. They're so sloppy, they're full of false and sloppy information. Look, the Minister of Justice said: "We are a country of freedoms." He said that a day later, youtubers, whose profession was a street interview, were taken into custody and were placed under house arrest. Now, didn't you put these people out of work by putting them under house arrest, or did you just break people's voices? Again, here, with the Court's documents, Mr. Minister of the Family refused, denied, denied, denied that the disability was tied to 422,000 people, even though they didn't deserve it, but the numbers and facts deny the Ministry of the Family. The Minister of Environment said: "You haven't said anything about Lake Salda, I was waiting, we've put Salda in full protective custody. He didn't tell you what kind of full guard he'd be when this was done, but you guys went out and applauded. Again, the Minister of Health came up here and said: "Turkey is having a breakthrough in health." But as someone who comes from the inside of the profession, I know that patients have been unable to operate for three weeks due to lack of medical supplies. Again, as someone from within the profession, I know that disposable materials are used five times in sterilization. And a salary arrangement was brought in, and this pay arrangement couldn't be implemented, but what do we have left? The business peace among the medics has been broken. The Minister of Interior arrived, and in the morning there were 160 terrorists in all Turkey. He said, "There are 5557 terrorists working in the IBB alone in a big delusion at night." he said, we had trouble understanding it. Your fellow press wrote sheets for six of these people for two days. Here they are. Here they are. Here they are. Here they are. They sent their documents yesterday, and their records are clean. Our Minister of Transport came out here again, and from you -- the seats are empty there, but -- a world of applause, closing banners, you clapped so beautifully, but we don't think you knew the truth. Look, it's $2.3 billion in investment costs, financing costs, heavy maintenance costs and operating costs alone for the Osman Gazi Bridge, but the Department of Transport guarantees the company $13 billion. Now, where's the fairness in that, and where's the success in that?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0076par0501	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0074par0502	Finally, the Minister of Agriculture came out, showed a visual here; yes, I think you'll all remember that. Here, in the second column, it says: "The cost of barley is 1.85. You applauded it, but the Minister of Agriculture recently announced the price of barley at 1.75. So he's accepted on this bench how they hurt the farmer, how they consciously needed poverty, interest. Oh, any progress with the Minister of Agriculture? Yeah, thanks to him, he didn't plant dandruff this year. [[Applause from CHP rows]] When we come as a result of all of this, when you actually miscalculate a data -- this institution, TİK -- all of the data is failing, not growth, not interest, not real currency, the country is getting poorer, the nation is getting poorer. We will enter the EU, we will go to the European Union without visas. In what you call the country, the nation can no longer go to the market, but in the first election, we will send you out of this power, bringing peace, peace, and justice to this ancient land. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0077par0507	Mr. Destici, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0078par0508	My dear President, the esteemed MPs, and I, on behalf of myself and the community of the Great Union, ask God's mercy on Hasan Kalyoncu Bey's brother, my condolences and my patience on Hasan Bey, and on the Milliyetian Movement Party community. And I pray that the presidential and the budgets of our presidential and subsidiaries, along with our other budgets, are good, from my great Lord. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0079par0511	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0080par0512	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement for 60. It's too short.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0079par0513	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0080par0514	Mr. President, as you know, in the parliamentary system, the ministers were all involved in most of the meetings, and since they were required to be present when the law was discussed, there were a lot of problems being said here, being solved by the ministers. Today, of course, Mr. Vice President is here on the budget's special agenda for the administration. We're all getting reports from the Political Information Cebeci campus, where the students are organizing a forum, saying we can't get through. The police blockaded this forum and were about to intervene. The year is 2021, the place is a university, and the interview is to block such a statement, not having a university forum is incompatible with democracy, incompatible with freedom of ideas, incompatible with the fact that universities are unique.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0079par0516	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0080par0517	We always say where the Justice and Development Party has brought the country's democracy, we criticize it. And they also say that this system, according to the Parliamentary system, is a system that can decide very quickly and intervene very quickly. We would tell the minister here in the parliamentary system, 15 minutes later, there would be no problems. It was said that many problems would be solved. Now, at this early morning or early in the day, we expect Mr. Vice President to show the sign of this new regime. We expect the blockade over the students to be lifted and to be able to resolve the crisis and inform us, sir, in order to make us feel the separation of forces, and to conduct it with respect to the living. [[Applause from CHP rows]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0081par0554	İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir is in Islam. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0082par0557	Mr. President, my dear friends, today we're going to talk about the end of a 20-year-old story. You set a target for justice and development and abandoned those goals, but instead of dealing with prohibitions, corruption and poverty, unfortunately, you institutionalized them. My dear friends, beneath your failure, I'm quite clear that this presidential system of yours lies beneath the unhappiness of this society. If you spend it at 90 percent, it doesn't work, especially if you spend it at 51 percent, you can't sit on it. We said, you can't sit down and you can't sit down. My dear friends, here is the reason for these disasters, especially the growing economic disasters these days, and the reason for the political tribulations is that you put the fate of this country and your own party and its partners to one person. My dear friends, while our country is at its lowest, while the majority of our people live at the level of misery, you pride yourself on the fact that you have brought in a truly, unburdened, domestic, Turkish-type presidential system, which is now a Turkish-type economic model, and that you are building a civilization as it were. Not at all. Look at history, you can usually define all management systems in two ways; one of them is based on justice and goes all the way to the pharaohs when you scrape the gold; the other is systems that see the neighbor, the other is equal to itself; here, today, in the opposition in Turkey, it is not like you. In the opposition you call it, you see that this community contract, the social contract is written. What you're thinking is that if you make everyone like you, there's peace in this country. There's no example of that in the world. Establishing civilization makes it necessary to recognize differences and to live together as equal, unique people. My dear friends, these are things you know, I know very well. What is most surprising is that these are the words of the Minister, who was appointed to the Treasury by your economic model, the chief economist Recep Tayyip Erdogan. See what it says: once there's no outside attack. Second, he says to me, to you, and most importantly to the poor people: "You only have one salary to lose, but I have a lot to lose; I have a thousand employees and capital." He also requires that we trust him, that we trust him for success, and he says, "Well, if you go down, what happens if you sink the country?" He says, "I'm sorry." It's not like we're talking about your bike! Guys, you need to get rid of this insensitivity as soon as possible. Imagine, I'm a surgeon, you come to me, you come with a severe disease, I'm going to put 20 screws in your spine, 30 screws in your spine, and what's the outcome? So what do we do if it's bad? I'm telling you, I'm sorry. I'm talking about my own state of mind. Well, of course you'll take your films and your reports and leave quietly. It's important to establish civilization, but it's a matter of the mind to build civilization, it's a matter of the heart, it takes courage to build civilization. My dear friends, you can only give a note of civilization from how you look at the poor, the weak, and you can only understand it from here. So you look at the weakest of them and you tell them what you think of that civilization. Our weakest are our dead, my friends, and the way you look at Garibe Gezer has revealed your understanding of civilization these past few days. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, let's come to Dianet. Dear Dianet, tell this Fahrettin Altun Sir what the perception management is and how it goes all the way to the Pharaohs' magicians. (CHP turns to applause) Talk about taking responsibility for people who are constantly using external powers as an excuse and telling them that if they were wrong like Adam did, they were wrong. Again, tell these people that three days ago, as Mushabiye put Mushaf (Mushaf) on the tip of the spears, Solomon Noble put the narcos on the end of this microphone and lured you to drink, and tell them what that means. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And very dear members of the Religion, if you can afford it, go and give the President some advice. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0083par0570	The order belongs to Mersin MP Ali Mahir Aşır. Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0573	I salute the General Assembly. Today, we're talking about the presidential budget, which is using its budget in the most extravagant way. Yes, this budget is a corrupt budget, a troubled but irresponsible budget, a selfish budget. Now, dear friends, look, all of our friends who come up here are either at the beginning of their words or at the end, saying, "We wish this budget to the country, to the nation, to the people. Let's see how good it is. Let's look at the numbers. Let's look at the figures set in last year's Court; look, fellas, the palace has a fleet of 1 billion 218 million vehicles, and when we look at the values in 2020, we get 5,000 domestic vehicles, and from here we get a convoy to Bolu, isn't that a pity? Dear friends, there's no tire costs, no fuel costs, no insurance costs, no maintenance costs, isn't that a shame? In the ten months between October and January, the cost of protecting our Master is 262 million and 592 thousand liras to the state. I don't know how these friends protect Sir, but God save this people from you! It's a real shame, what if there's a pen like this, a budget like this? Oh, no. Look, I want to tell you another pen, what happened yesterday at the cost of the amortization in the 2019 budget of the palace? 205 million, what's that? Worn-up repair costs. Mr. Oktay, I wonder if you're using too much contempt for this palace. You're stomping on people, people, workers, merchants, and you're stomping on things? Is there such an expense?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0085par0575	People are driving, people!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0576	You know a lot about people! Listen!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0085par0577	You know too much.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0578	We're talking three or four years in a palace, 205 million dollars in repair costs. Look, again, the gentleman's food, beverages, cleaning costs are $50 million. Yeah, can you tell me about it, please? Look at this 50 million worth of food and drink, and go, and enter a house in Altındağ, and open your closet; your face blushes! You'll blush!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0086par0580	Did you see how much the CHP has?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0087par0581	There's mosque, there's library, there's students.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0582	Mr. Abdullah, don't insult me, brother.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0087par0583	There's the library, there's the mosque, there's the citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0584	Look, I answer to 84 million, you answer to this guy. That's the difference between us.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0087par0586	There's a 24-hour library, mosque, mosque, citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0587	I represent the worker, the worker, the peasant, you represent this man, that's the difference between us.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0087par0588	Yeah, there's a 24-hour library, mosque, citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0088par0589	They don't count them as people.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0590	And look, in 2019, the gentleman's agricultural costs were 700,000 liras and 9 million when we arrived at 2020. Now, if I ask Mr. Oktay, he'll say, "There's a rise in gas, a rise in seed, a rise in poison, a rise in poison, a rise in 12 floors." There's 51 million medical labs, medical costs. I can think of a Saraçoglu, who did the artefacts of the palace. Two, these expenses are coming in, I wonder what the agricultural costs are growing.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0089par0591	Horse seed. Do you know horse seed?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0592	Lab expenses are on their way. They're probably looking for an immortality potion for the gentleman. Is there a drain like this? What's he growing, I'm asking. Dear friends, look, this country is in bad shape, really bad. Get out on the street, listen to the people, look at these numbers. I'm talking about some of these really embarrassing numbers; they're increasing exponentially every year. Do we have to give these for the safety of the court, for the health of the Lord, for his food, for his drink? Please tell me this; tell me this; a friend of yours didn't come out and ask a question, and he didn't say, "What is 50 million?" Yes, the cost of agriculture... what does he grow? I'm really asking, what does this guy grow?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0090par0595	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0596	What does he grow? I don't think a kiwi is a banana; you grow tulips because you live in the Tulip Age, you live in the Lale Age. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, one more thing touches me: the people have chosen you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0091par0599	You got that right.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0600	You're standing there clapping for the secretary ministers who are talking. Look, there's no one here, but after the vote, after voting, you get in line. Ye are chosen, ye are chosen; and he shall come before you, and will button his collar.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0092par0602	Don't talk nonsense, you're talking nonsense! You're so full of shit!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0603	Is that even possible? Is that even possible? You will answer to this people.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0093par0604	This man is the minister of the nation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0094par0605	We're not buttoning up in front of foreign government leaders, we're buttoning up in front of our minister.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0606	Ma'am, don't yell at me, ma'am; you go out into the street, you see the people, you see the worker; you see that farmer yelling yesterday, the uncle in the bread line, uncle!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0094par0607	We see it all, all of it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0084par0608	People can't buy diapers, people can't buy bread... Shame, shame, shame, shame!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0095par0610	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0096par0611	It's time for the muğla MP Burak Erbay. Here you go, Mr. Erbay.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0614	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're discussing the 2022 budget, and I wish it well, but it doesn't look like it's going to be any good. A marathon that's been going on for about 60 days, was presented to Parliament on October 15th. And I looked at it that day, and it was $1.9.18, and when we came to this day, he found 14.50 when he looked at my speech as of yesterday. So the budget you're making has just collapsed today, my friends. I'm afraid that's the result of your incompetence. Now, as we continued to discuss the budget, I watched the representatives, the ministers, draw so many pink paintings that we were really surprised. Mr. President, such presentations have been made by Allah Allah's will, waving and waving, and speaking on TV, and the citizen has watched on television. He said, "God, God, what country are they talking about?" He said, "Unfortunately followed because you didn't tell the truth, you drew different, pink paintings. So now I've decided to paint the reality of the country. Look, you know what the truth of the country is? That's the bread line. For miles... people leave their homes, come out in the cold, these people have to wait for hours to get bread for 50 cents less. Seriously, what else is going on in this country? During the budget talks, I also told Mr. Vice President of the Commission to tell the President that half a bagel is being sold in the country he's been running for 20 years. That's the state of the country. Now, that's what the AKP's doing; half a bagel has become sellable as a result of your wrong policies in this country, your failure to run the country. Look, we're building economic policies, you know, like, the tail economy that you're probably doing. You know how you're complaining about old people in queues... people in line for work now?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0098par0619	Show it to the minister.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0620	Look, there are 10,000 people lined up for six cleaning workers in Urbana. You know, those pink paintings that the Minister of Transport told you about, the other ministers, they really don't exist. People can't pay the electricity bill, the water bill, that's the state of the country. Now, let's look at the big picture. A brand research company has done research on Turkey, and has demonstrated the brand values of companies in Turkey -- this list shows it -- Turkish Airlines in the 1st place, 1 billion 605 million dollars; a quarter of a billion, 500 million dollars in a row; and 100 companies in Turkey have a total brand value of 21 billion dollars, that's the situation in Turkey. So what's our situation when we compare this with the world? When we look at those sweatpants, the Nike company where we buy sneakers, when we compare them, do you know how much those 100 firms are worth when they're worth 21 billion dollars? $42 billion. That's where we are. As you can tell, we're world leaders, so here's what happened. This is our situation, my friends. Mr. President, I'm afraid these are the facts. And what caused that?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0099par0622	You got Nike's sponsorship?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0623	You ran the country with that one-man regime for 20 years, you destroyed the country, and that's why we're here, that's why we're here. (HPP) You've spent $1 billion and $370 million on that presidency. Look, 224 million liras that continue in Ahlat, my constituency is in Mugla, that palace in Okluk, which you slaughtered by cutting down trees -- 640 million liras that were announced. Instead of spending $640 million here, I wish we'd bought a plane, an arizer, and our forests hadn't burned down or burned down! Shame on you! Oh, for fuck's sake! You know what these are going to be? These will be the museum of shame in the rule of the Republican People's Party. It's gonna be a museum of shame! Do you know why people are hungry in this country? Why is he hungry? Because there's no democracy. People can't express the problems of the citizen. The young children set up a YouTube channel, extended microphones to the citizens and said: "What is the state of the country?" That's why they were taken into custody.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0100par0625	Did you see those crooks? Did you see the imposter working at Istanbul City Hall in the interview?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0626	They're watching us at home right now because of house arrest, handcuffs on their feet. But you know what? With our friends, when the Nation Alliance arrives, they will be able to express their own thoughts freely.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0100par0628	Did you see that street interview where you were working at Istanbul City Hall, where you were an agitator?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0629	Do you know why young people run away from this country? Why is there no democracy? Why do you tell us that these world giants are jealous, and he's not jealous? Because there is no democracy. There are young people who have come to Ankara, we can't live. Since they say so, you have taken them into custody by foot, by foot, by beating them, by beating them. That's why our country can't evolve, so we're among those backward countries, I'm afraid. This is the result of your 20 years of power.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0101par0631	Come to the orange, to the orange.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0632	Now, finally, look...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0102par0634	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0635	I'm a child of a family made by a narcissist. These oranges have been sold, I've read them that way, became a lawyer, and I'm here as a representative of my nation. We've been traveling all over Turkey. Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our members of parliament, we've been traveling through the country. People are troubled. In this budget -- we already told you -- there's no workers, there's no workers, there's no peasants. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the master of the nation; there is no peasant; he cannot take fertilizer, nor take medicine. (HPP) Our MP, Genghis Gökcal, told us that the lemon people were cutting down their trees, that our President Dalaman, the lemon maker was finished, and now it's time for the narcissist. Without contact with Russia, if the barriers on that door are not removed, the narcissists in Hatay, Adana, Mersin, Mongolia, Antalya, Adana will have to cut next year. I bring you their salutation: go, be our voice, and proclaim it to the hearing ears, and to the blind eyes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They said, "We have not planted these oranges, let them see them." They said, "I hope you will see them, and I hope you will see them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0103par0639	That's your level, your level, your quality, your quality. That's what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0097par0640	I hope you see it, I hope you do what you have to do.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0104par0641	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What kind of MP are you?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0105par0642	This isn't right, this isn't right, take it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0106par0643	Disrespect of the Nimeth, disrespect of the nation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0107par0644	That's your quality.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0108par0645	What kind of disrespect is that? What kind of attitude is that?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0107par0646	You're nothing but a show, aren't you?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0109par0647	People don't cut down their trees, and orange makers don't cut down their trees, I hope. You've finished them.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0108par0648	What a shame. Does it suit you? Does it suit a congressman? By God, your friends are helping and gathering.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0110par0649	Let's keep it that way, Mr. President. Let's keep it that way, people.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0108par0650	It's showtime.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0111par0651	Istanbul MP Kadir Enis Berberoglu is next in line. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0112par0654	Sir, I'd like to start by saying my words to the MP of MHP Izmir's brother, God's mercy, patience, and my condolences to the MHP Group. Now, Atila Sertel is sitting here in the back. Yesterday, he presented the state of the visual media in a very clear, clear, and a little embarrassing to me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0113par0656	I can't hear you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0112par0657	That's all I can do. Maybe I can get some help from the AKP Group later on. If you'll excuse me today, I'd like to offer my opinion on the presidential telecommunications budget. Well, the simple thing is, I thought we'd start with an example. I picked up a copy of a newspaper on December 10th, page one. Look, there's a title on the December 10th edition of the Morning newspaper, on the top, on the bridge, on the MTV, a discount on the motor vehicle tax. Isn't that nice? You know, we pay this tax at two installments a year. Which means the instalment we're paying on the stove should be lower than it is today. That's what this headline says. No, it's not, it's up 25%, it's MTV, so it's not downloading, it's overloading. It's just that the person who loaded it cut back a little bit of the amount. Now, what can you say objectively about this headline? If we speak in the ordinary street, we say lies, we call it political deception, according to the penal code, it's called blindfolding, embezzlement, fraud, document fraud. Again, you could say the same thing... well, it's a matter between the reader and the newspaper, yes, but the communications president sentenced 803 locals and national newspapers last year for lying. One of these reports is about the President's house, which is currently not among us; his trial continues, explaining the sentence given on Twitter as the Vice President of the Press Agency. Come on, we're past this place, there's a big shame about accreditation; it's the way the Chief of Staff invented it. For 40 years, I was a journalist, and in the first 20 or 20 years of this, the Chief of Staff wouldn't let reporters of newspapers who didn't meet their criteria into military facilities, wouldn't answer their questions, and would be a disgrace. So, what does it mean this year, October 29th, again, on November 10th, that some newspapers and televisions were not taken? Believe me, you really made the Joint Chiefs jealous, and they didn't even think that much of it. Look, I have another sentence here: it's not the newspapers and televisions that are being punished; it's the audience and the readers who watch newspapers and televisions, who want to see them, who want to watch them, who want to share their feelings with a television and newspaper. I hope that this adoption of the presidency is just censorship. Otherwise, considering that sometimes people go to watch the road, and they're not allowed to do that, I don't need permission from anyone to go to Ataturk. I don't need that kind of permission. (CHEERING) Not as a journalist, not as a politician. And finally, unfortunately, there's another arbitrary application of the communications president: he gives the press cards to his liking, cancels them, even brings them to that point, which is only an honor card, which is a constant press card, which cancels the cards of the porters. Look, I applied nine months ago -- nine months back with the Constitutional Court's ruling -- because I've been a journalist for 40 years, I have a permanent card. I only keep this card to commemorate my journalistic days. He hasn't given it to me in nine months, and as he hasn't given it to me, he won't give me his reason; I've sued him, he won't tell the court anything yet. I'm afraid this communications presidency has become the head of non-communications. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What's more, I've seen 22 governments and 12 different prime ministers -- all of which I've had to write down in journalism.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0114par0664	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0112par0665	I repeat: 22 governments, 12 prime ministers. If I count the ministers, bureaucrats, I won't have enough time, but I haven't seen a government that's been successful with lies, deceit, slander, and politics. The last thing I said was, I was watching the Agency show the other day. The organization series tells of one of the country's very high-profile institutions, which is the National Intelligence Agency, which is, again, the presidency. A dark character's mouth is coming, and there's a sentence put in its mouth, which is coming. From here, Mr. General President and us, the People's Party of the Republic, someone has come up with the idea to defame the slogan. If this mind belongs to the same non-communicational presidency as the president, I expect the MIT to act on it before I do, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0114par0668	The order belongs to İstanbul MP Yüksel Mansur Kınç. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0115par0671	Mr. President, I have been promised the budget of the esteemed MPs, the head of the National Intelligence Agency and the Secretary General of the National Security Board. I salute the General Assembly. And good luck to all our security forces on their mission. The 2022 Budget Proposal is 11 per cent of the general budget for defence and security needs. In our security agencies, we're close to $1,200,000. With these resources, the mandate of the country's administration is success in the region and peace in the country. Dear lawmakers, do we have economic resources for our safety? I do. Do we have human resources? I do. Do we have power and savings from history? I do. So, is there trust, security, peace in our country? That's not it. For the profit of drug lords, our children are right in the vortex of drug swamps. Thodex threatens our black money security with off-shore, criminal conglomerates. With his hotel, his marina, our shores, our coves, the mafia is falling. With Peker, organized crime organizations with the Scavenger have the courage to make all kinds of threats. Across the border, our Mehmet-chik is targeting the blind bullets of terrorists. So, what's the status of the National Security Council tasked with identifying their security targets? The Republic of Turkey does not have a national Security Policy Document; the budget presentation calls for a National Security Policy Document. Why hasn't the National Security Policy Document been available for years? The Secretary General of the National Security Board is busy with the board of the catering company that serves aircraft, the Home Secretary of the National Security Council is hosting black moneymen in the Ministry, allowing members of the organised crime organization to leave the country; the President of the National Security Council is threatened with its assets and remains silent about foreign blackmail. Turkey does not deserve to have our special security officers detained by terrorists, and it does not deserve to be martyred by foreign paramilitary forces. Turkey does not deserve to be made a black-money paradise and put on the gray list. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, Turkey does not deserve to be deprived of its National Security Policy Document. Turkey does not deserve the Secretary General of the National Security Council to be a paid employee of a catering company. Turkey does not deserve to be allowed new parallel structures through the communities, paramilitary SADIT (a part of the power of attorney), the port of drug ships, the collapse of mafias in the corners of heaven, the destruction of our borders, the threat of mass irregular migrations to our cities. Our Veteran Assembly does not deserve to be fingered by the Minister in charge of providing internal security to our MPs. (HPP) MASAK, in charge of fighting black money, does not deserve to be made the instrument of black money operations. Our cities, our neighborhoods, don't deserve to be a drug swamp. Dear lawmakers, our country faces great security issues. The security area and its institutions do not deserve the shadow of hot politics and daily political debates. Turkey does not deserve aimlessness, uncertainty, shortsightedness. Now, I'll ask you again. Why hasn't the National Security Policy Document been available for years? Because the only man in power sees our security resources as an instrument of the palace business. (CHEERING) Now it's up to us. We will purge our security field of the influence of the palace, of one man and of the warm politics. With no reward, we will root out terror. We're gonna drain the dirty swamp of organized crime organizations, black money, drugs.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0116par0678	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0115par0679	For our beautiful homeland, for our beautiful people, for a safe and peaceful Turkey, we are almost there. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0116par0682	It belongs to Izmir MP Kani Beko. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0117par0685	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. I have made a commitment to the presidential budget. Today, our ministers of the AKP and MPHP have been telling us that Turkey is growing, Turkey is growing, and so almost Turkey is flying. So I'm asking you today... I'm saying, since this country is so big, if this country has come to this point today, why haven't you paid off our farmers' debts that have reached 250 billion since 2006? Why haven't you solved the problems of pensioners and EYT people so far? So why didn't you give me 3600 additional indicators of public employees? Why didn't you appoint nearly 750 thousand medical workers during the Pandemic period when they were on duty? According to the Court reports, why did you not appoint the disabled, even though it was publicly open to about 60,000? Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has a beautiful saying. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says that the future is the work of young people and of teachers. When we come to this day, some 500,000 teachers who were not appointed have committed suicide. Why didn't you appoint these beautiful people? Since you have not budgeted labour health, occupational safety measures, nearly 28,000 workers have died in the work killings since you came to power. Today, unfortunately, we are still the first in Europe and the third in the world. If our economy has grown, why have the number of poor families doubled when the poverty limit exceeds $4,000, the poverty limit exceeds $13,000? Why is it that thousands of students are out in the open because they can't find a home? Why did you detain the students who came to Ankara today for dorm problems? For 2.5 billion, the president could have made 23 student dorms with 500 beds at $2.5 billion, instead of a Turkish house in the United States, New York. So our kids wouldn't have to sleep in the parks. The country has become poorer, along with an increase in foreign currency, endless increases, and low wages. Tens of thousands of workers were left to hunger and poverty because our unions, close to DİSK, TÜRK-İSK, were under the dam. You're suing for the closure of DİSK, EMECI-SEN, which aims to represent retirement while living under the millions of retired hunger limits. This is in violation of Article 90 of the Constitution. So, when we look at it, the negotiations for minimum wage will begin today. Minimal fees expect a salary from the minimum wage detection commission, which can satisfy the basic needs of human beings. This certainly shouldn't be under 5,000 liras. The president of Mexico has sold the only presidential plane that exists in the country with so much poverty and crisis. He has sold it and transferred its money to the treasury. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In our case, the President tells the people of Bacara, who are hungry and miserable, by adding a plane to his palaces, his planes, to his palaces.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0118par0692	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0117par0693	There is no Salvation War in our country today, there is no Separatist. In this country, the true Battle of Salvation was once fought. The leader of that Salvation War was Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. He created the national assets that you haven't been able to sell in 20 years, and entrusted them to all of us for the welfare of the people. Mr. Erdogan, you're not fighting the Liberation War, you're selling the country's assets to foreign capital. Ever since you came to power, you've fallen into the property of the state, handing it out like a war booty. Therefore, this budget is not the budget of the people, pensioners, workers, farmers, students, widows, orphans; it is the budget of the palace and the five-part gang, so we say no, we say no, we say no. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Your hair is lovely, the palace is good-bye to you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0119par0698	He's obviously a union man.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0120par0699	Manisa MP Bekir Başevirgen is next in line.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0121par0701	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're discussing the fourth budget of the single man's system, the last budget in which the people are taxed but not prosperous. The lion's share in this budget, which is not enough for education, health, agriculture, and employment, is divided into capital again, side by side, and gang of five. There are supporters in this budget, there are favours in this budget, there's interest in this budget, there's interest in this budget, there's loot in this budget, but unfortunately there are no people in this budget, workers, tradesmen and students. Unfortunately, we don't have farmers who have to plant the tractor without fertilizer. Dear lawmakers, what does the current government say with this budget, which is a numericalized version of despair and the collapse in agriculture? There are no farmers who do anything wrong. Don't let our farmer down, he says. Will the growth in production costs improve by 300 percent, while the farmer's morale exceeds 400 per cent, with the phony figures of TİK, and the farmer's morale will be improved by the fables of secondary channels? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, why is 34 million acres of agricultural land out of production during your time of power if there are no farmers who are losing money? Why did nearly 700,000 farmers leave production? Why did the farmers' debt to banks go up to 205 billion dollars? Why is our thousands of farmers' farms, gardens and tractors for execution? Why do the stud cattle you import from 3,000 euros apiece go to the slaughter? Why are the food stores empty, and why are they turning into wild buildings? Dear lawmakers, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, the farmer was not supported before the AKP PARTY. He says he has no idea when direct income support has been issued, and he has no idea of the milk and meat premiums paid in livestock. While agriculture was supported by 5.8 per cent of national income in Turkey in 1999, the ruling Agricultural Law never gave 1 per cent support to our farmer that should be given to the farmer. Today, the increase in oil, flour, milk, all basic foods is the result of support not given to the farmer. Dear lawmakers, the Minister of Agriculture came to the Manisa Trade Exchange every year and explained the price of raisins, and I think he was embarrassed this year. With 300 per cent increase in input costs, 400 per cent increase, it's unfair to increase the price of buying raisins by 4 per cent, it's disloyal, it's disrespectful to work. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Dear lawmakers, think of a power, citizen, we're finished, we're miserable. Send money to this IBAN number. He performs his own farmer, making Serbia and Ukraine farmers rich. He's paying $2,250 for the wheat produced by his own farmer, and he's paying $5,500 for the wheat of the Argentinean farmer. Imagine a Minister of Agriculture who can't even account for the cost and profit of households, wheat, barley and corn. We ask him, "Why did the fertilizer cost 15,000 liras? We built a road, we built a bridge," he says. We ask, "Why are the breeding animals imported for 3,000 euros going to the slaughter?" We ask, "We built the airport." Why don't you support the farmer, Mr. Minister? We ask him, "We don't eat eight goals from England anymore." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, we say no to our farmers who can't keep their backs straight because of 205 billion dollars in debt to this budget, 174,000 in the pursuit of banks, and more than 4,000 for execution. We call this budget the 114,000 contract teachers you abandoned in the pandemic, the 14,000 tradesmen you did not retire, and the millions of people you practically kept living in poverty. (HPP) We say no to thousands of agricultural and food engineers waiting for this budget and 1 million young people from college who are not able to get a job, over 8 million unemployed, 25 million citizens living under the age of hunger. Since we donated 750 million dollars to this budget to the media barons, I'd like to expunge the tax debt from the five-alarm gang...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0122par0713	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0121par0714	We say no because you caused about 3.5 million citizens who failed to pay off the bank debt. We call this budget "No" because you're pouring people's money into foreign currency guaranteed projects and employing a limited number of healthcare staffs for 36 hours continuously, while 57 percent of the employees are fighting for minimum wage, while you're keeping your followers on honey wages. We don't even mention the names of students living on the streets without finding a home, and we say no because you've transferred billions of dollars to the foundations and associations. Dear lawmakers, we say no to this interest, rant and plundering budget that has led citizens to hunger, poverty, despair, which has had more than 50 per cent deviation since the day they arrived in Parliament, we say no to the end, we say no. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0123par0718	In turn, Tekirdağ MP Inspired Özcan Aygun.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0124par0720	The inspiration...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0125par0721	Mr. President, I was at the market this morning...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0124par0722	My president promised to drop me off here on the way back.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0126par0723	But I have to... Mr. Ibrahim is a suitor. Mr. Aygun, when Mr. Ibrahim is leaving, he says.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0125par0724	No, Mr. President, Mr. President, they're all...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0124par0725	He'll leave it to me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0127par0726	He gives it to him, and there is much in Erzurum.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0125par0728	Mr. President, let's reset the time, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0128par0729	Let's start over. Over.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0129par0730	First he opens an exhibition, an exhibition...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0130par0731	Mr. President, reset the start time.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0131par0732	Mr. President, this is a way to keep the House from working.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0132par0733	The Civil Charter is against 65.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0131par0734	We demand the implementation of the Civil Code 65.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0132par0735	Civil Code 65.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0133par0736	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0134par0737	Don't take it out yet, it's called "Stocher." Don't take it out yet.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0135par0738	Mr. President, we want the Civil Code 65.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0136par0739	Inspiration, punishment, hoarding.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0137par0740	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0741	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the presidential budget of 2022. I salute you and my fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens with respect and love. We're talking about the budget. Unfortunately, the budget proposal was disinherited as a result of Turkish lira melting in the face of dollars. With the increase in agricultural budget, the increase in the palace budget is unfortunately broken. See, you've set aside 25.8 billion in agricultural benefits in 2022, so the increase from the previous year is only 12.2 per cent, but when you look at the cost of the palace, there's a huge difference between the resources you've spent from the budget to agriculture and the resources you've devoted to the palace. For example, the Court says that in 2020, the cost of agricultural property increased by 1,068 per cent, yes, 1.068 per cent. Mr. Oktay, I wonder if you've farmed in the palace or kept animals. In the palace's ovens, perhaps fresh bread is cooked, and wheat is grown, and bread is baked, but the citizen is in the cold, in the rain, in the bread line; that's the difference between them. Again, see, the Court identified it, and in 2020, there was a source in the budget for living animals, and it increased by 200 percent. Now, I ask you, what are living animals? Fresh milk, fresh eggs, and many products must be grown in the palace. The founder of this country, Ataturk, founded the Ataturk Forest Farm, where the people drink these milk and those who grow there, while the palace raises its own products, along with those increases in its budget. That's the difference, Ataturk thought of the people, but the palace thinks of itself. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I was wondering, what are you guys drinking? In recent budgets, I introduced you to dragon fruit, and now we have mangoes, yes, mangoes in the palace. In the last statement from the palace, it says to our citizens: "Make cans with mango, dry it and use it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0139par0747	We've said it a hundred times because it's not, and we've told it, and it's not. Shame on you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0140par0748	Is it so twisted, so twisted, so shameful?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0749	And do you know how much this mango is worth? This mango is between 18 and 27 liras, and how can he dry it? People don't get dry bread and dry onions, and you say dry mangoes, mangoes!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0140par0751	You're full of shit!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0752	Again, you see, dear friends, the lamb liver is 110 lira, the meat is 90 lira, the lamb chop is 110 lira, the lamb is 110 lira each, and the people can't buy meat, and you've got mangoes and lots of products in the palace.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0141par0753	What a shame.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0140par0754	How can you think of such a thing as opposition?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0755	Look, my deputies, a cup of coffee was worth 40 years, but now, when the citizens arrived, you were unable to offer coffee, you finished people, you destroyed people.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0140par0756	What should we do with the coffee maker in Brazil?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0757	See, Congressman, 48.66 per cent on lentils; 36.5% on eggs; 30 per cent on bread; 84 per cent on potatoes; 58 per cent on margarine; 57 per cent on chicken meat; the citizen was no longer able to eat chicken meat. And in markets like stock markets, like gold, like dollars, prices change instantly. I went to the store this morning, and I thought I'd get some red lentils, coffee, bulgur, chicken, milk, butter, eggs, bread and cheese. The painting I see when I come to the market is pathetic, friends, yes, the painting I see is pathetic, and you'll be surprised when you see the price.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0142par0759	How much is it all? How much is it?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0143par0760	You were criticizing the late Erbakan, and now you're doing the same.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0761	. See, here's the shopping ticket, 28.90, 1 litre of sunflower oil, 15 liras of milk, 1 kilo of bulcor 12.95, Turkish coffee 8.95 and the list goes down to 231 liras. When our citizen sees this, I only practice dry onions and bread. He says, "Observes these, completes his trade with dry onions and bread." That's what you've done with the citizen, left onion on dry bread.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0144par0763	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0143par0764	Bravo, good show!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0765	The most important thing about the farmer is the fertilizer, our farmer planted the planting season without using DAP fertilizer. DAP fertilizer is $2.350 when you look at the planting period, and it's about $14,000 today. Now, it's urethra that he needs to use during the sisterhood; yes, it makes $1.1 kilo of fertilizer, friends.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0143par0766	Where did you get that?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0767	Look at what you've done with the fertilizer. (Applause from CHP rows) 1 kilo of fertilizer is $1.00, so the urethra, which was $1,800 last year, is now $1,300, and the rate of increase is 660 per cent. You've finished the farmer, you've finished the trade, you've finished the worker, you've finished the pension, you've finished the student. It's either a shame or a sin.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0145par0769	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0138par0770	I wonder what kind of stomach you have, you eat, you eat, you eat, but your stomach isn't full yet. Now, think about your people, this budget, the budget that belongs to you, the budget that doesn't belong to the people, and I'm telling you to think about your people. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0146par0773	How do you have a stomach? We've written the word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0147par0774	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0148par0775	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Special had a question -- we got the answer right away, but we had to wait for the end of it -- the issue they brought up at Ankara University's Cebeci compound. The situation here is based on the request of the University Rectorship for the growth of verbal and physical debates among opposing students, and on the legal framework for the failure of education and teaching, and there is no blockade in the current situation. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0149par0778	20 detentions, by the way.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0150par0779	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0780	Mr. President, thank you. We've listened to many of the CHP Group's oratories, thank you, they've made important statements, they've been identified, but, Mr. President, there have been strong accusations against the presidential government system. That's behind us, Mr. President; life, history, politics don't go back. We see this system as the greatest democratic achievement of the last hundred years. The 115-round presidential election, the six-month coalition changes, the system that left our Turkey behind, such as an early election, is far behind.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0152par0782	Now that you're a coalition, what are you going to do with it? You're a coalition with the MPP.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0783	We've taken this claim to the public, and they've taken it to a large extent. There's no such thing as a return to democratic rights in the world. So the arrow is out of the bow, the system change is behind us. Imagine, in a global crisis like this, in a pandemic process like this, if there was an old system, you know, the minister fights, coalition crises, the early election agenda, we'd have a whole other price. As a result, update yourself; the system has changed, the system has changed, the system has changed. Mr. President, the majority of the speakers also had a fight with the chosen-to-be and accused our presidents of being so rudely appointed to our friends. From Fahrettin Altun, they have accused us of counting many names to our Vice President. No, they were officers, they were appointed.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0153par0785	Magician!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0786	Look, Mr. President, even if the CHP doesn't believe it, the system has changed. It's not like they're assigned to the old system. Our officers, who have been accused of being blamed in the new system with the presidential system, are not like the classic official, but as they claim when the President's term is over. He's what they call a position of attorney in the absence of our President. He's the one who's sworn in like the MP they're referring to as. Those who they insist on insulting are the ones who are seeking the requirement to be appointed a deputy. As a result, the Constitution needs to be studied, the new system needs to be studied. An officer's trial is 657, as you know, similar laws, but the trial of those assigned is the Supreme Court, not like officers.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0154par0787	That's worse.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0788	There is also a different status in many matters, such as the oath of the MP. In accordance with the presidential system, after the election of the President, this team comes together, goes together, is not looked at as officers.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0155par0790	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0791	Mr. President, you need to change that appointment rhetoric. They were appointed when you cooperated, not like those who were assigned to the 367 crisis, not like those who put up a banner for the military mission. Mr. President, I'm also sorry to hear that a lot of people are shouting, even screaming, some of them are throwing oranges, some of them are opening countertops, and I'm sorry, what kind of stomach you've got. We've been sad to see you use very shallow expressions. Of course, there were a lot of respectable talks in the CHP; we listened, we took advantage of them, but this language is not a good language, Mr. President. For example, the last speaker, sir? There's a mango in the palace, so dry it. It's called drying. We've told you a hundred times, friends, this is an old issue in 2015, not in Turkey, but in Mali.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0155par0793	Now pack it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0794	Two minutes, Mr. President. Important Mr. President, we're responding to 70 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0155par0795	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0796	Our president's wife, Mali -- an economically weak African country -- you have a lot of mangos for the president's wife, dry it up, sell it to the world economically. She says, she advises. Not in Turkey, not in the palace. It's shamelessly, for seven years, as if you didn't know why the CHP hasn't been in power in 20 years. Throw the lie, throw the slander, the public will believe it. Our people have wisdom, they have faith. That's why there's been so many crises over the last 20 years. You say, you say, "There's a lot of money." You say, "You don't have power, but look in the mirror. It's not the state code, it's not the people's code, it's the morals of society; it's not worth knowingly lying or knowingly doing wrong. You'll see, for 20 years, the AK PARTY, the Cumhur Alliance... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm sorry. Two minutes...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0155par0799	Do you know how many minutes you talked to him?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0800	President, we're responding to 70 minutes, one minute.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0155par0801	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0151par0802	Well, Mr. President, I suggest they look in the mirror. If it hasn't been 25 percent or 26 percent in 20 years, it's the language, it's the style. What was said? How was he yelled? In fact, some of the yellers left. He's only got one mission: he'll come to the stand, he'll scream, he'll insult and he'll leave. This language is not in society, Mr. President. We'd like it to be more reasonable, more reasonable. I think we should believe in the power of our word, not the noise of our voice. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0155par0805	Mr. Free, I promise you, I'll give you the same time, separate events. Now, in terms of a situation... we've made a decision: we've decided that after the budget has been completed, the Deputy Directors of the Group... have decided that this, by the way, causes time loss, and in that sense, I object, but if you insist. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0156par0808	Mr. President, without further ado, if the budget of the presidency is discussed, if this system is referred to a referendum on the terms of the State of Emergency -- which is constitutionally prohibited in many of the world's democracies -- and if the State of Emergency has changed in terms of the State of Emergency -- the system will begin with a debate of legitimacy before, during, after, if there is a lot of unlawfulness, if there is inequality, if public opportunities are being used in favour of this regime change in proportional -- 99 percent of 100 billion, like 72 percent of TRT. So, in the appointed-elected debate, unfortunately, the attitude, attitude, and style of the appointed ones determine the argument. The ministers are coming here -- we've put their sample in writing -- without the slightest noise rising -- but the minister gets his budget, and so does the minister, when he starts swearing at him in the morning after the hat, after the people's choice, you're appointed, you can't do that to the chosen one. Or at the presentation speech, the very gentleman and the bureaucrat, after the final speech, I hit him, and I run, and I get the clap; I go there, and then I'll be rewarded. Let's take a concrete example, Fahrettin Altun. What could be our problem with the gentleman, but his posting February 28, is that we are victims of that period. You say, you're taking power from that victimship, and now we're responding to Mr. State Gardener's criticism, two lines past Hodri Square, Fahrettin Altun's criticism; if the yellow press card is attached to their labor reporters; if the subject is attached to subjective criteria; I criticize Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the Anadolu Agency, and he will never pass a sentence. If an opposition party's Fahrettin Altun criticism can't be a piece of news, if Fahrettin Altun is such a privileged bureaucrat where the president is criticized, where the opposition leader is criticized, of course it's not about him, it's about the system you claim to have his legitimacy. Look, Mr. Turan, Mr. Turan, the arrow has come out of the bow, and has passed the horse. These are not the terms of democracy.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0157par0810	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0156par0811	In democracies, it doesn't cross the Üsküdar that takes the horse, but if it passes, if it gets it wrong, it'll get caught, taken off the horse, and the account will be asked.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0158par0813	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0159par0814	Freeman, three minutes without cutting. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0160par0816	Yes, Mr. President, I'll finish. The arrow came out of the spring. It's not the term "democracy." There's balance, there's inspection, and as a result, there's going back and answering to people. The poison from the bow end of that arrow is stuck in the heart of the poor, the strange guru, but the day will come, the chest will be built, the people will ask the question, and then the law will be called to account. Yeah, the dream of a regime where the arrow comes out of the bow, and the horse goes through Skopjedar is the dream of a palace. And you said, "Surrender." When you did it, his name was the palace, and you were afraid of the nation, and you turned it into Jerusalem. This court regime is coming to an end, the chest is coming, the account will be asked, this order will change.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit01spe0159par0819	Yeah, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0161par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. The first word on behalf of the individuals now stands in your favor, Osmaniye MP Mujahit Durmusoglu. Here you go, Mr. Durmusoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0162par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of myself on behalf of the eighth round of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2022, I salute you worthy members of our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation watching us on screens. Our 2022-year Budget Law Proposal, strengthened, developed, developed by the vision of Turkey, is the fourth budget of the presidential government. As the Republic Alliance, our budget for our nation's expectations and our country's goals is the budget of our workers, our business people, our farmers, and all of our entrepreneurs, who, as in the past, have been an asset to the economy. Our budget proposal for 67 strategic programmes, including regional development, employment, strengthening of trade, youth, human rights, space and aviation, is the basis for a more prosperous Turkey target. Speaking of Turkey's budget, we need to discuss not only some financial size but also Turkey's goals. In this framework, our political ideas, our perspectives may be different, but I want to stress that our common goals are to build a stronger, larger Turkey. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has had a huge change in democracy and development over the past 19 years. It is possible to see the effects of this change from our people's daily lives to our country's international position. No progress in the welfare of our nation's rights and freedoms has been easy. There is a great struggle and sacrifice behind every step taken. We went out with our people on this blessed road, willing to pay any price. Just as we have maintained our authority in the fight against terrorism, in the coup attempt, at the expense of martyrs and veterans, we will continue our journey with patience in this process. While we want to see the same sensitivity from opposition parties, it is clear and clear that the opposition, which has a strong declaration of will for Turkey's national security, is not, unfortunately, the one who produces it, is the one who consumes it, not the one who tries to destroy it. Mr. President, I'd like to share some information about the investments and actions made by the EC PARTI governments led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. By reducing our defence industry's dependency on the outside, we have been able to meet the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces and all of our security units with local and national resources by up to 80 percent. Like biotechnology and health industries, we aim to make our country a ring of the global development chain in the emerging areas of the future. In health, we have made the greatest reform of our history. We have opened our city hospitals with a model of public-private cooperation that will allow our citizens to be treated with state-of-the-art technology. The importance of these reforms has become clearer in the pandemic process. Through the signatures of our governments, our transportation and infrastructure services, our increasingly divided road network and highway length, bridges connecting our cities and hearts, the viaducts, the Iron Silk Road Turkey line, our air network reaching 128 countries, and our ports of great tonnages, we have turned our country into a reliable production route. Hopefully, on the 106th anniversary of our Çanakkale Sea Victory, we will also be opening the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge and Malkara Highway, the world's largest mid-open bridge. We've launched our country's 60-year dream domestic automobile project. We have raised the number of organised industrial regions to 325, with 14 new areas established last year. Production has begun in 12 percent of the industrial districts, and work has been under way at 11 percent. We are determined to become a global center, beyond self-sufficient in energy. We've completed the European connection to our TANAP project and the part of TurkAkim Natural Gas Pipeline that runs across the sea. Our Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant is under construction. We are a country that exports more than 2,000 products to 206 countries in agriculture, making $17.5 billion in the first nine months of the year. We're working to move our country's 10th place in the world in agricultural revenues even further. In the first quarter of 2021, we recorded 7.2 per cent, 21.7 per cent in the second quarter, and 7.4 per cent in the third quarter. According to export data published by the Turkish Exporters' Assembly, our economy reached 21.5 billion dollars and broke the record of republican history.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0163par0047	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0162par0048	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as the EC PARTY led by our President, we have endeavored and will continue to show that we are with them wherever there is an underdog and victims. We supported the steps of our Turkish Cypriot brothers in the blue country, protecting our rights and interests in the Eastern Mediterranean. Our support and prayer from our Azerbaijan brothers, who fought to save Karabuk and their occupied land. We will continue to fight on all platforms to protect the rights of Turkish and Muslim elements in Western Thrace. Dear lawmakers say we will continue to walk and serve in this holy way, which we believe in in our first-day love, excitement, and love for our nation as we end my words, and I wish the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 to be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0163par0051	In order to speak, Mr. Vice President Fuat Oktay is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0054	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I salute you all. Today, we present the budgets of 2022 of our presidential and presidential and related institutions and institutions and final accounts of 2020 to the appreciation of our Veteran Assembly. I'd like to thank lawmakers who contributed with their constructive criticism for their opinion on the budgets of the presidential and presidential and related institutions and institutions. They said that we spoke here, especially when we criticized the opposition and ran away.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0165par0057	You couldn't get away. We got him, honey.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0058	We're not running away.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0165par0059	You can't escape.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0060	We're here, and I'm here.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0166par0061	But you don't have yours.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0062	We're here. We've been in the House for two months. Since October 17th, we have been on the Plan and Budget Commission and the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If you're looking for someone to do hand-to-hand moves, talk to, run away, it's not me, you need to look elsewhere.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0166par0064	Are you talking about noble?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0065	I'm talking about your president. After our extremely high-level presentations -- I want to express this in particular -- if you expect us to remain silent, especially after all the abuses that we use after our extremely high-level presentations, by paying attention to the language that we use, which is a waste of our minds, which is not appropriate, I'm sorry, no one will expect that from us. I'm returning statements to the court who call our response to the criticism of the opposition presumptuous, which you will write in your diary.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0167par0068	He's already here. He's gone.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0069	Again, we have been asked over and over again why our President did not make his own budget presentation. Our fourth budget has been asked the same question for four years, and we answer it over and over again. Once again, I've expressed that in the General Assembly as well as in my presentation of the last few days. Whether it's in the United States or in France or in many other countries, the budget proposal -- especially in the presidential or presidential systems -- is presented to parliament, written to Congress, but then the president defends the budget in parliament for the sake of the vice president or minister he has appointed. That's what we're doing, we're not doing anything different, and like I said, we've been here for two months. During the Plan and Budget Commission phase of budget talks, something in particular has been said again, like chorus, over and over again, during today's talks. Our budget has been tried to reduce the budget of the palace to devoid of knowledge or good intentions, such as the budget of the man, etc. And I'm not going to go in here very much, but I just want to say that this budget is not the budget of a single person or a single institution; it is the budget of the people, the budget of our citizens, and the budget of our nation. The budget of presidential and presidential-related institutions is the budget of 84 million of our citizens, our nation as well as all of our institutions in the 2022 Year Budget Law Proposal. In our political history, there has never been another period in which all parts of society have been included in the decision-making process, where civil society, occupational organisations, business world are so active. You can't show another leader like Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who's given such an ear to the expectations and dreams of our young people, our women, our disadvantaged citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0168par0072	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0073	The so - called "Saray" is a place of war in the National Library of Nations, a land of our nation. On the 15th of July, when someone was watching what was happening in front of the television, you accused him of being the target of bombs and bullets, turning him into the nation's headquarters. Mr. President, especially our President, the Presidential Chamber is a 24-hour area where lights don't go out, works for our nation, produces and lives. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our budget includes 7 presidential, 4 Offices, 9 Policy Board and 1 Secretary-General budgets, such as the President of Strategy and Budget, the President of Defence Industry, the President of Religious Affairs and the President of State Archives. This budget is the budget of our infrastructure engineer, software developer, cyberheroes, who have led our Digital Transformation Office in areas such as artificial intelligence, cyber security and large data, making all public services available to you by phone, computer, tablet. This budget is the source of our national, national defence industry projects, the dynamico, the arm wing, which our nation is proud of, such as the Raider, ATMACA, HEZAR, AKSUNGUR and METE, which has achieved great success in our full independence in defence and security technologies. You say nothing but a few products. Those who say, "It is announced. " It's the budget of anonymous heroes and braves who work for our National Intelligence Agency, who have identified and eliminated threats against our country both within and outside our borders, as if they were raiders. Our dynamic institution, which supports both local and international investments and exports and growth, is the basis for the rise of all sectors that invest in infrastructure, energy, real estate information and communication technologies. We have come to be servants and not masters to this nation. I wish that every penny, under the leadership of our President, our nation's expectations, prosperity, and future should be well spent.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0169par0078	Oh, my God.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0079	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers have made major changes in every area in the past 19 years, including criticisms focusing on economic policies. No progress in our nation's rights and freedoms, prosperity, stability has been easy, has not been done in one day. Under the leadership of our President, there is a great struggle and sacrifice behind each step. For years, we've been exposed to embargoes on security technologies and defense products, and there have been times when we can't provide the necessary equipment at our earliest convenience. Every member of our Supreme Assembly knows that, and every member of 84 million knows that very well; you may not know it, I don't know, you may have forgotten it, it's impossible not to know it. That's the motivation we caught the production ecosystem we have in the defence industry today, and the nationality rate in the 80 percentths, that's what we'd like you to see. In the past, when Europe is a country that has been retraced as a market for technology produced, which is behind innovations done abroad, especially in Europe, we are talking about being a pioneer in many areas, not only in defence technologies, but also in information, communication technologies. Turkey is determined to transfer its resources to investment, employment, production, design and RD. In every attempt to implement that determination, Turkey has faced all kinds of blackmail and intimidation policies, and continues its struggle to make its economic, political and political security policies capable. With strong political will in the last 19 years, and especially with the presidential government system, there are resources, determination, and possibilities that can fight in line with our reality. Our ability to create solutions in difficult times in areas such as the level in which we fight terrorist organisations, the speed in which we intervene in disasters, and our Covid-19 crisis management is at a standstill. And in the economy, we continue our struggle for permanent stability in all these areas focused on investment, employment, production, exports and growth. In October, the Industrial Production Index increased by 0.6 per cent month-on-month and 8.5 per cent year-on-year. Again, in October, we overpaid $3.16 billion, reaching the highest rate in the last three years. I want to repeat it once again, it's been repeated before: "Well, but the current has always followed crises in overrated times." We said: Cari is also the period of time when the crisis follows, and that's normal to give too much, but to maintain both growth and growth, and at the same time, that's the ability to give too much. Our goal is to make the balance of payments sustainable and permanent. Just as it can't be done in the defence industry, if we've done what we're told, brought terror to an end, ripped up custody plans, we'll overcome the manipulative effects on our economy and we'll bury them in history. (AK PARTY) We will persevere in our country's winning, profit spreads throughout society, our full independent and prosperous Turkey march. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have also been emphasised on the fact that macro financial developments are expected to build on the banking system, debt, budget and financing of growth. Our banking system maintains its strong structure by giving a very far-reaching view of both capital competency rasio and collectible rates. Similarly, our debt structure is sustained by predictive policies and measures that we are constantly taking, and their risk against market variables has been reduced and our timeline has been strengthened. Our budget will be prepared with our mutual-winged policies, which we think of as revenue-consuming, which will provide for the needs of our citizens and will not reduce their real gains, and will be implemented with that understanding. In the end, with the support of strong export events, the balance of payments is clear that we can build an infrastructure that can provide funding for our growth goals in 2022, as well as the improvement of our balance balance balance. In this scope, we will continue to work hard to increase the welfare of our citizens. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our firms have started using their capacity to meet the increase in domestic and international demand, and in many sectors the capacity of use is close to 80 per cent. This gives a strong signal to our firms' new need for investment. The policies we implement will reduce the investment costs of businesses, and we will contribute to our healthy growth with packages to support the manufacturer. To that end, we will continue to be with our producer, along with the additional employment support package that we will do quickly, as well as with incentives to promote innovation, domestic design and production. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we see that our budget has been criticised for increasing revenue performance. As always, we will continue our comprehensive budget policies, which monitor disadvantaged areas. We will take all our steps in harmony with the principle of free market economy and financial freedom. The Republic of Turkey will continue to build confidence in the global economy as a fully integrated country with its roots and reputation. There's no way this could damage our general policy. Turkey's economy will continue to finance investment, production, exports and employment-enhancing activities in line with our goals in the new era, with its strong banking sector and the rapidly growing non-bank financial sector. We can't ask for credit expansion in areas that don't suit the spirit of the full independent economy, are consumer enhancers, that don't serve investments, that don't serve production. In this sense, we will prioritize investments in the use of our financial capacity. Unproportionate price increases and courtship fluctuations cannot or will not be Turkey's fate. As we rapidly develop our industrial capacity, we will take steps one by one to reduce our need for foreign currency in areas such as energy and intermediary property, moving production, employment further. And some of the details of what happened in the last conversation, I presented them here, again, to our great coven. We have never seen the Republican People's Party, the IP, and the HDP support in our efforts to implement full independent policies.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0170par0089	What the hell is an IP? Shame!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0171par0090	Laundry rope!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0091	So, do we say anything to you when you say "AKP"?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0172par0092	That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0093	And no matter how much we tell you about this choice, we know your ears are closed.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0173par0095	Are your ears open?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0164par0096	Here's one of the things we've seen on this stand, where we've all witnessed the way CHP is running the country. It's a show-oriented mindset that doesn't even respect labor products by throwing oranges on the stand and collecting them when the show's over.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0174par0098	You're the one doing the show, you're the one doing the show!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0175par0099	You're doing the show!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0176par0100	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0174par0101	Look at the state you are in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0176par0102	They're tearing down trees; you know what I'm saying?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0177par0103	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0176par0104	Come, you be in my place and don't scream!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0178par0105	Mr. President, would you care to step in? We can't hear Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0176par0106	Why don't you grow 10 kilos of oranges?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0179par0107	It's a classic CHP who pours and then tries to collect.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0180par0108	You have a poisonous tongue, a poisonous tongue!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0179par0109	It's a classic CHP who smashes first, then tries to make it legal.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0181par0111	What's it to you?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0179par0112	Although, his other partners aren't so different either.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0182par0113	You represent the government, it's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0183par0114	Yeah, that's what the Vice President said!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0184par0115	You've said everything, don't you want him to answer?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0185par0116	You'll learn and learn the value of our fight for economic independence, whether you understand it or not.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0186par0118	People will show you the show in the trunk, don't worry!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0187par0119	People don't believe these stories!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0188par0120	Talk about the budget, you represent the budget, you represent the people!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0189par0121	Now you realize there's a budget and we're representatives of the government, and now you're thinking about it?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0190par0123	Don't show off, don't show off!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0189par0124	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0190par0125	Don't show off!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0191par0126	Now, wait a minute, Mr. Vice President, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0192par0127	Nobody buys those stories!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0191par0128	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've told you before, and I'm telling you today...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0193par0129	Mr. President, he's trying to get a round of applause by taunting the opposition.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0191par0130	The Group Vice Presidents are getting their notes, and they'll give you the answer.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0194par0131	Straighten your tongue, your tongue!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0195par0132	It's a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0191par0133	Yelling won't help the congressman, it won't help his party.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0196par0134	The party has an official name, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0191par0135	Now, Mr. Musavat is here, taking notes.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0197par0136	Okay, he can have it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0191par0137	So there's no point in yelling. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0197par0139	Let him speak according to his position, Mr. President!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0198par0140	They'll say everything, they'll scatter.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0199par0141	Guys, we've been listening all morning, so you've said everything, and there's nothing you haven't said, and I'm still trying to use as much polite language as possible.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0200par0142	Are you going to make me count? Are you going to insult me?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0199par0143	I choose the words carefully when I answer.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0201par0144	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0200par0145	Are you going to swear or what?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0202par0146	They'll say anything, Mr. President, anything.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are constantly trying to improve the quality of our services to our nation and our Parliament in every way through the presidential government system, which is living by the strong will of our nation and parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0200par0148	People are in the line of bread!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0149	When we make serious efforts in this way with all of our institutions, we have a habit of defending the opposite of what we say; there's a mind that can't do anything but say "good" and "bad" and "bad" and "bad" and "good" and "good" and "good" and "good."
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0204par0150	Your arrogance will bury you in the chest!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0151	Now, the first of our more than 750-plus defence industry project, the albatross Pack, our drone project -- I'm saying, look, I'm not saying it's the air vehicle -- was successfully passed by our probe...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0205par0152	There are bread lines, Vice President!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0153	...our new generation of Commune Electronic Attack System, SANCAK, Raider, AKSUNGUR...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0205par0154	How much is the bread, Vice President, how much is the bread?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0155	...as you always do, but you'll say, "The plane of the palace!"
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0205par0156	How much is the bread, bread?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0206par0157	Story, story! Get to the truth, get to the truth! Look at the citizen, the citizen!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0158	These are facts, I'm talking about facts, guys, so I'm not delusional.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0206par0160	Bread is $3.5, bread!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0161	I'm not talking fantasy, I'm talking reality. Yeah, look up and see the truth!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0206par0162	That'll be $15!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0163	If I told you about the important steps of the Presidential Office of Digital Transformation, in the field of artificial intelligence, large data and cyber security, the impact of the ecosystem on employment, development, you would still say, "Sarat's budget!" Open up, people, open up! If I told you about the precious foreign investments of the President's Investment Office that only last year from the United States to Germany, from Japan to France, you would say, "The United Arab Emirates, Qatar!"
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0207par0166	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0167	If I tell you about the Istanbul Financial Centre Project, the Human Resources Office's support for young people, as well as the contributions of the Ministry of Religious Affairs to social peace, you will repeat the performance of the war budget, the security budget!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0208par0168	What peace? You killed them with prisons, what social peace?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0169	In this budget, whatever our nation needs, whatever the future needs, it's what's most necessary for Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Unlike the hate language of the man who stood on the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and said, "There's a law, there's a law, there's a law, there's a law!"
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0209par0172	You can't call the MP a member of the gang!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0173	...our nation has prayer, support, and self-control. Well, you know what? There are no policies that fit the interests of your closed-door meetings.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0209par0174	You can't call the MP a member of the gang.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0175	I specifically used that word because the word "Tele" was used.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0209par0177	You can't call him a gang member!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0178	I used that word personally because the word "Tele" was used.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0210par0180	Where are you a member of?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0181	Turkey has no preferences to weaken the equations in the region.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0211par0182	The gang belongs to you, the gang belongs to you! Tell me about YIMPAS, tell me about Turk Telekom. I return the gang to you, the gang belongs to you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0183	I used it anonymously. (CHP and HDP rows of noise) There are no policies to disrupt domestic and national production, and to make those who look forward to Turkey stumbling.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0211par0185	You are the one who has arm and arm, the gang is yours! You're the one sitting at the table in Imran!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0186	No custody, no constraints, no approach to dissolution, no unfair distribution.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0212par0188	What a mess! What a democracy!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0189	Friends, listen well to this land -- with Alevi, with Sunni, with Turk, with Kurd, with Laz, with Cerkek, with all our differences, we are one with each other.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0212par0191	You forbid language, language!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0192	You're the gang! What tie are you talking about? You do nothing but divide people! He can't insult the appointed one here!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0203par0193	Together we are Turkey, our differences are our strength and wealth; you are our strength and wealth as our differences.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0194	You're the gang! The gang is the one where you're arm in hand, and you're like a nail in a fingernail.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0214par0195	Just a minute, Mr. Vice President. Congressmans, what the hell are you doing?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0197	You're the gang! That you've been fingernailed with meat so far! You're the gang! So far, you've been meat and nails. You're the gang.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0214par0198	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0199	You're the gang! Until yesterday, you were flesh and blood! You're the best in the gang!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0215par0201	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0202	Up until yesterday, you were flesh and blood!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0203	Let's finish... let's finish...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0217par0205	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0206	I don't accept such a thing!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0207	Let's get this over with. Look, we've been listening to you all morning.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0208	He can't insult the chosen!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0218par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0210	I've listened to you, I've listened to you. Be patient.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0213par0211	He can't insult the chosen one in this House! Noises in the AK PARTY
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0212	I'm not insulting anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0219par0213	He's insulting...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0214	I'm not insulting anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0220par0215	You can't call a congressman a gang! You're talking about the gang!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0221par0216	That's enough! That's enough!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0217	I'm responding to the statements used here, folks. If you can't stand his answers, you won't use them.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0220par0219	Get out of here! Get out of here! You were the one sitting at the table with the baby killer in Imran!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0220	You can't stand his answers, you can't use those statements, then he's here.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0220par0221	You're the one with the meat and nails!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0222	I told you at the beginning of the presentation, you can't insult us in any way and expect us to remain silent. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0222par0223	Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0224	Until today...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0223par0226	What did he insult you with? What did he say?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0216par0227	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0224par0228	You're insulting me, you!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0225par0229	Burcu Haným, wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0224par0230	Mr. President, he's here insulting the appointed one!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0225par0231	Oh, wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0226par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0225par0233	Guys, if you turn the world upside down, I won't stop any of the speakers here.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0226par0235	No, don't interrupt...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0227par0237	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0225par0238	Now, let me tell you something...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0226par0239	Don't cut...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0225par0240	Wait a minute, Mr. Free, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0228par0241	Go... go...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0225par0242	Now, after you've finished the speech, you'll have your word, you'll answer; there is no such application.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0229par0243	Clean language... clean language...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0230par0244	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0231par0245	Go... go...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0232par0246	Go ahead, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0230par0247	Mr. President, my request is only...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0233par0248	Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0234par0249	Go... go...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0230par0250	Look, when the congressman says something in there, the Civil Code opens.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0235par0251	I'd also like to point out, Mr. President, that the segregation...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0230par0252	Invite him to a clean language!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0236par0253	Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0235par0254	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0237par0255	There's no such procedure, you'll answer after you've finished your speech.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0238par0256	No, invite him to a clean language!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0235par0257	I didn't get in the middle of talking to a vet, and I didn't say anything, and you didn't give me that promise.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0238par0258	Invite him to a clean language! He can't call this Parliament a dime!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0239par0259	Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0235par0260	I don't know if there's such a procedure in the House of Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0240par0261	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0241par0262	Invite him to a clean language!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0235par0263	I'll tell you something else...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0242par0264	This is not a palace, this is the House of the Chosen!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0235par0265	Let me tell you something else, fellas, I'm speaking to separator style, separator style!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0243par0266	Mr. President, you're missing us; he's bound by the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0244par0267	You can't promise!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0245par0268	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0246par0269	I keep going, look, I keep answering.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0247par0270	Mr. President, they are also bound by this Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0245par0271	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0247par0272	You should call them to a pure tongue, and I do not say anything else.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0245par0273	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0248par0274	Straighten your tongue!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0247par0275	I'm not saying stop talking, but it's a clean language!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0249par0276	He can't call the appointed elected MP a member of the gang.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0250par0277	No place has ever been prayed, and I've never asked, not only in Turkey, but anywhere in the world, what religion is the imam from, or what religion.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0251par0278	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0252par0279	It's a shame what you did!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0250par0280	I've never seen anyone I know or any Muslim question it in mosques.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0253par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0254par0282	Free...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0253par0283	Oh, no, the President is going to invite you in a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0255par0284	You can't call him a gang member, you can't say a gang member!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0256par0285	Those who feed on separation and hostility can't teach us unity and unity.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0257par0287	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0258par0288	Mr. President, I'd like you to invite him in a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0259par0289	We invite you to speak in a clean language, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0260par0290	Under the leadership of our president, the EC PARTY has always been a fundamental difference. We don't create our policies and actions in anyone's direction.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0258par0291	You're a member of the gang. He says!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0261par0292	What would you do if we called you a member of the gang? What do you mean, gang member?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0260par0293	Our course is people, our goal is prosperous Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0262par0295	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0261par0296	That's what the gang member says!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0263par0297	▪ The gang member says!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0264par0298	When we say good, we say bad, and we say bad, you say good, but where you're gonna be, there's gonna be opposition.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0265par0299	You swear, you insult!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0266par0300	The gang member, he says, says the gang member.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0267par0301	Go!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0266par0302	He's here, insulting the appointed one!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0268par0303	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0269par0304	Here, today, our institutions, such as our budgetary institutions, the President's Strategy and Budget Presidency, the President of Communications, the President of the National Palaces, the President of Defence Industry and the National Intelligence Service, are our institutions, our nation's own, our own, and the interests of a single nation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0270par0306	People in line for bread, people, open up!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0269par0307	If you want to find some reciprocity in the nation, you put your hand on your conscience, and you are proud of the success of our institutions with our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0271par0308	Yes, correct your tongue, Mr. Oktay, correct your tongue!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0272par0309	You're the last person to talk about language, Attila Sertel.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0271par0310	Straighten your tongue!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0273par0311	What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0312	Once again, to share it with our nation, I will talk briefly about the successful activities of presidential institutions and the work they plan to do next year. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, together with 7 presidential presidencys, 4 Offices, 9 Policy Boards and 1 Secretary General, Ministry and NGOs, form effective policy designing and implementation mechanisms of the presidential government system. The Presidential Policy Committees have prepared 75 reports and policy documents, guiding all of our decision-making mechanisms in just 2021, in co-operation with our relevant institutions and organisations. 19 policy documents are currently under way. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) The Office of Digital Transformation plays a leading role in digitalization each day by adding a new one to its work in large data, cyber security, e-state doors and artificial intelligence. In 2022, the Office of Digital Transformation will continue to enhance security with the option of a mobile wallet plugin to e-state the e-state door, as well as a two-part security confirmation of the user-friendly digital public service, the provision of the National Artificial Zeka Action Plans 2021-2025 and the use of artificial intelligence portals, and the development of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the Data Centre, as well as the development of digital public services in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and e-KTC cooperation, to continue to be digital, in accordance with the National Artification Plans of Artificial Intelligence and the use of Artificial Intelligence. Our President's Investment Office is bringing in valuable investments that will reduce our country's foreign currency spending in the interest of our overall independent economic preference. 13 per cent of investments in the office investment portfolio consists of technology that has the potential to develop its supplier directly from R&D and design centers, and investments in the sector, which is high in imports of 31 per cent, with high-intensity and high-intensity production investments. Projects involving medium high-tech and high-tech sectors such as automotive, chemistry, medicine, and electronics are very important for providing qualified employment, as well as for reducing our country's external dependency. In 2022, the Presidential Investment Office will implement actions in Turkey's International Direct Investment Strategy, and the safe port for the investor remains the door to Turkey's foreign investor. The Presidential Finance Office will contribute to the development of our financial infrastructure into a more efficient structure. The Istanbul Financial Centre Project, which is followed within the office, will make Istanbul an international financial centre, which will be part of a wide range of financial institutions such as banking and non-bank financial institutions, financial investment and portfolio management companies, during the geographical change of the financial center. The Presidential Finance Office plans to promote foreign activities to Malaysia and Britain in 2022, establishing new strategic partnerships in the field of accession finance. The Presidential Office of Human Resources is working with all of our institutions and universities on the development and direction of our human capital capacity into the right professions. In 2022, he will continue to add value to our human resources by focusing on careers and internship programmes for young employment, public staff training, talent hunting and the professions of the future. Our strategy and Budget Presidency has made significant distances in areas such as strengthening the plan, programme and budget connection to the programme budget system, improving spending priorities for decision-makers, developing a result-oriented financial management understanding, activating the monitoring and evaluation process to serve accountability and transparency. As the output of the programme budget system becomes concrete next year, it will continue to direct the entire public sector to implement more effective policies with monitoring and evaluations. At first, with tasks such as drafting and implementing the central management budget, funding allocation, co-ordination of budgets, policy and strategies, our Strategy and Budget Presidency will continue to work with the mission to make development stable and sustainable. The Ministry of Religious Affairs operates on the basis of faith, worship and morality of Islamic religion, the responsibility to enlighten society and humanity. In addition to its current activities, the presidency also plans to organise current religious issues, which will be discussed in 2022, with regard to economic life and health, social life, current religious problems, and matters related to the life of worship, in order to seek a solution to the problems that Muslims face in different areas of life. It is also easy to read and understand in language and style to be submitted to use in 2022, and the preparation for a new Koran metaphor that guides the reader to thinking and thinking. The presidency's Communication Presidency has become Turkey's face and voice, including public diplomacy, regarding our state's strategic communication. The presidency will continue its projects and activities next year to ensure Turkey's qualified representation in all areas. The Translation Tracking Platform Project was launched to make the written translation activities in public institutions more efficient, and the project is scheduled to be completed in 2022. As a token of our value to our archives, which are very valuable in Turkish and world history, the State Archives Presidency continues its activities directly in connection with the document management and the archive savings of the President. The presidency is trying to digitize information by protecting the originals of documents, to access archive documents quickly, correct and requested formats. So researchers and all interested people have been able to access government archives online. The President of State Archives will move to the integrated archive management system for safekeeping and protection of the archives next year, and will continue to provide documents that concern our country by doing co-operation protocols with other countries. Since its establishment, it has worked worldwide in palaces, mansions, Kasser, museums and historical factories, while serving as museums in international standards, it has worked to ensure that our historical and cultural heritage is preserved and passed on to future generations. In 2020, the President of the National Government of Palaces signed 10 original broadcasts, including five in the first six months of 2021. In 2022, the Ankara Palace Presidential Museum and Topkapi Palace will visit our citizens. The Defence Industry Presidency has taken the lead role in ensuring the safety and prosperity of our nation, in order to ensure that the equipment of our security forces will be provided with domestic, national resources and the value of integration into the economy. Since the year 2018 alone, rather than buying abroad, over $20 billion has been prevented from spending foreign currency, which has been kept in our country by the means of defense products that we can produce. As you may know, our domestically developed attack helicopter, the ANAK version of the developed Phase-2 version of the ATAK, is under way, the prototypes of our SKY helicopter are being produced and tested, as well as our land vehicles and many systems that are equipped with OMTAS anti-tank weapons, such as KAPLAN, and many of the systems that I can't count are being employed after the necessary tests. The construction of our new type of submarines is under way, while our test and training vessel is being launched, our Anatolian ship is in the process of completion, which is also adapted to deploy drones. The work of our 5th generation of drones, MIUS and Humanitarian National Warplane Projects, designed and developed by domestic capabilities, will be among the limited number of countries with infrastructure and technology capable of producing a fifth generation of combat aircraft such as the United States, Russia and China worldwide. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our abilities in the defence industry will continue to transfer from energy to many areas from health to IT systems, and it already continues. It is also extremely valuable that our army and other security units provide for their weapons, equipment, and so on, with domestic and national resources, contribute to the fight against terrorism. How did the whole world move forward, saying with appreciation and envy? We will continue to fight terror, to protect the rights and interests of our country on land and sea, to fight terror, to bring down Turkey's iron fist from the world's defence concepts, to our new generation of defence products, which are the product of Turkish engineers from its software, and to our national submarine projects. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Secretary General of the National Security Council, are monitoring and analyzing developments in every dimension of the security concept, domestic and external, and drafting strategic research and evaluation reports. It also conducts work on its mandate under NATO and prepares the National Security Policy Document. Mr. Kılıç of the Republican People's Party, why has the National Security Policy Document been missing for years? he asked. The National Security Policy Document, first published in 1963, has been updated eight times since 1963, and has been available at the meeting of the National Security Council of September 30, 2019. The document includes state policies for national security and basic sensitivities. At the meeting of the National Security Council on September 30, 2019, we also have a press release shared with our nation regarding the National Security Policy Document. You shouldn't have denied him. The press release reads: "The national security policy document, which has been prepared to evaluate all aspects of the developments in our country, in our region and in the world, has been discussed and appropriated." The press text -- I repeated the point to the comma -- has been released to the public. Oh, and let me put it this way: the guardians and antidemocratic texts you desire no longer exist in democratic Turkey. If this is your longing, then you may be disappointed because there is a democratic National Security Policy Document. The National Security Council statement also criticised statements on economic threats by some lawmakers since their Plan and Budget Commission talks. On 25 November 2021, the MGK meeting was held at the press conference ▪ Threats were assessed by the trials our country faces and encounters, the 100th Republic. As in all areas, it has been confirmed that it is determined to reach the year effectively. It has been added in the form of a declaration. This is an indication that we're dealing with the concept of security in terms of economic, political, social and environmental dimensions, just as it should be. The economy is one of the ultimate goals of security policies, as well as an indisputable instrument of our security policies. Isn't the U.S.-Chinese geopolitical competition largely based on economic security? Isn't the anxiety in the whole world lately related to supply security? Aren't we all watching closely that the countries, especially the democratic countries, are resorting to any security measures aimed at guaranteeing supply security? It is not possible to implement security policies that are literally on the ground with an economy sensitive to addicts and threats. It's perfectly natural for our independent economic policy to take part in the National Security Council declaration, and it has to be. This stance, which demonstrates that we hold our economic security with all hands, shows our will to protect the rights and laws of our entire nation from manipulative attacks, including supply security for the economy, to cyber-finance attacks. Would those who are uncomfortable with such a situation want us not to take measures against economic threats? What, do you hide something from our people, seeing that you have taken to yourselves moisture from them? Are there warnings from foreign friends we're used to meeting in secret hotel rooms or hallways?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0275par0329	Mr. Vice President, make your claim concrete.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0330	Other issues, such as the earlier climate change threat and economic security mentioned in the MGK declaration, include the full extent of security policy...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0275par0331	Make this argument concrete, who's talking to strangers behind closed doors, make it concrete, don't make a statement.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0332	... And the interests of our nation will be taken into our security agenda.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0276par0334	Sit down, that's enough!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0277par0335	Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0336	We will continue to determine our national security policy, our nation's priorities and future under the leadership of our President. Our National Intelligence Agency is also dedicated to this understanding and determination to all terrorist organizations and terrorist threats, including PKK/KCK, NYD - YPG, ا/PDY, DEAS. The MIT, which has a vision of being a service on the world scale, has been among the number of agencies in the intelligence world, especially with its successful operations in recent years. I believe that our National Intelligence Agency, which has signed successful operations abroad and abroad, will further enhance its digital intelligence capabilities in the coming period. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've also received some questions and criticisms regarding the Turkish Entity Fund. Turkey's Entity Fund is looking forward to investing in Turkey's strategic projects with all its activities, adding value to companies in its portfolio, and taking steps to improve and deepen financial markets. As you know, public insurance companies and public pension companies have been merged in order to increase savings for the growth of the non-bank financial sector and the expansion of the insurance industry. Turkey's Insurance, which has been reduced by reducing costs to efficiency, has become sector leader with the scale economy created, has been able to offer higher volume services at a lower cost. For example, the largest natural gas discovery in the history of Turkey, the Danube-1 well, has been able to insure Turkish national communications satellites, which are again worth over $280m. Speaking of assessments on the control structure of the Turkish asset fund, Turkey's Island Fund is subject to three phases of control, including independent external control, State Control Board control and Plan Budget Commission control, and in addition to the three structures, internal control is included in its own processes. All companies in the Turkish Entity Fund portfolio maintain the control procedures they have previously been subjected to. In other words, companies that were previously subject to CSI Commission control, Court control and any other audit are maintaining the same control procedures.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0278par0339	New subsidiaries?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0340	For example, the Agriculture Bank remains subject to independent control and Court control before it is transferred to the Turkish Entity Fund's portfolio, while it is again subject to independent control and court control after it has been transferred to the funds.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0278par0341	New subsidiaries...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0279par0342	There are no new subsidiaries, Mr. Oktay, you don't know.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0343	In addition, the independent external control of Turkey's asset fund, the control of the State Control Board, and the control of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0279par0344	Many companies are being kidnapped, the CSI Commission, Mr. Oktay, you know, you're missing, you know.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0345	Turkey's Entity Fund will always prioritize accountability and transparency, providing capital support for Turkey's visionary projects.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0279par0346	Companies are being smuggled out of court control.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wasn't going to go into foreign policy today, but I'm going to try not to -- our foreign minister was here yesterday -- but while we were defending our sovereignty rights in the blue country, while we were trying to clarify our sea powers, what are you doing in Libya? They can't question our Eastern Mediterranean policies today. Those who do not support the operations of terror camps on the Syrian and Iraqi border, including the Firat Shield, Olive branch, Peace Fountain, where there are threats and we will fight them, cannot question our determination in the fight against the establishment of terrorism and terrorism in Syria.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0280par0349	Tell him there.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0350	That's where the review came from.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0280par0351	Tell them we've given them to them.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0352	You can't speak out of our Azerbaijan policy while the life of the people who have ended the invasion of Armenia in 40 days, which has been unresolved for 30 years, sees our support for Azerbaijan all over the world and every one of our citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0281par0354	That's it! That's it!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0355	If you want to see Turkey's support for the Palestinian cause and Bosnians, just ask the Palestinians and Bosnians; you don't need to ask anyone else, they'll answer you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We know that Turkey's foreign policy, which makes noise in its region and all over the world, was disturbing, disturbing, but we didn't know that as the PTA Party, it was bothering you. Even if you're uncomfortable, our firm stance in foreign policy will continue.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0282par0358	He's obsessed with the Good Party, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0283par0359	I'm glad you called it the Good Party. You've corrected your language in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0360	I wasn't going to go into that, guys. I had to go into that with the Hatibi talking. Turkey does as it pleases in the continent's shelf, under its sovereign rights and powers in the Eastern Mediterranean. (AK PARTY) In the eastern Mediterranean, we will not give up any action that would harm the legitimate rights and interests of our country and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer a few more questions and finish them. And since there's a question-and-answer afterwards, maybe I can leave those questions and answers to that part.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0284par0363	I think it's enough. It's really enough.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0364	There was a criticism that began in the form of education, health, and agriculture.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0285par0365	What about fertilizer, Mr. Vice President?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0366	Friends, our budget is not, as it's been claimed, a runt budget. I'm talking about the rate spent on interest in the budget of 2022, and it's planned to stay 13.7%. If you look at the share of interest spending from 2002, it has been significantly reduced over the years, so 43.2% have come to this day. If you look at the overall view of the budget -- and I've said this before -- it's useful to repeat it once again -- as in the previous years, it's going to show that there are high rates of resources being transferred to agriculture, education, health. According to this, we raise our source of agriculture by 36.1 per cent to 57.6 billion dollars, our education budget by 29.4 per cent to 273.5 billion -- the largest share in the budget -- including health ministry and higher education institutions' return capitals and health expenditures from the Social Security Institution -- to a total of 27.8 per cent to 304.6 billion dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0286par0368	How much is it?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0369	As you can see, the 2022 budget is a high-profile social budget that prioritizes all services for our citizens from education to health care, focusing on infrastructure spending. I've answered again, and I'll give it to you again. It's designed as a budget of budgets, war and rants, and the biggest share of it is in security and public order, with criticisms like 350 billion dollars and so on. I've already stated here that there's no war and no rent budget. Our budget offer for 2022 is yes, it cares about defence and security spending, but, as I've just said in the previous years, it's a budget that prioritizes social-quality expenditures, which are funded at higher rates of education and health. In 2022, the defense, the total budget of our security units was 180 billion, and I've already expressed the others. And if you want me to share this: In 2002, the defense is 3.3 percent of the GDP for the needs of our security units, while in 2022, it is 2.3 percent. So our budget, as you claim, is not a war budget and a runt budget, but a budget that uses the most efficient resources for defence, security units to develop domestic defence industry and ensure full security from the basic needs of our citizens. Again, two thirds of taxes consist of indirect taxes. There was a criticism that began. Again, in 2002, the share of indirect taxes, including social security premiums and local government tax revenues, was 46.9 per cent; it was 43 per cent per cent in 2020. Indirect taxes in central management tax revenues alone have been reduced by 2 points from 2020 to today, and are expected to decrease by another point in 2022. On the other hand, we have made very important arrangements to obtain more taxes, to expand the tax base, and to strengthen tax justice than we do with our tax policy, and we continue to do so. Again, we have also made significant VAT reductions in education, health, clothing, and food. We've made exceptions to income tax from 2022 to the earnings of some 835,000 of our tax-taxed trades. We've made an exception to the income tax for our new recruiters. So, as these examples show, we plan and apply our tax system according to the needs of all parts of society. I answered, but once again, there was a criticism in this country that began in the form of Alevilik and Shafiilik. There is no ban on such a thing in this country - neither Aleviy, nor Shafii.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0287par0374	They're not either.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0375	We don't know where this is coming from.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0287par0376	They are not things either.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0288par0377	You don't admit it, it's forbidden...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0378	In order to achieve solidarity and integration, the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which performs the duty of the community to illuminate religious matters in all matters, acts under the principle of respect for the different religious interpretations of our citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0288par0379	How do you respect something you don't know?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0289par0380	You don't respect me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0381	The presidency does not discriminate against our citizens in any service, such as Alevi, Hanefi, Shafi.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0290par0382	There's not a governor, there's not a governor.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0291par0383	He's not even.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0274par0384	He also published 15 of the 15 sources of the Alekatı and Bektashi, including works such as Haci Bektas Veli's Makalat, and Besmele Tefsiri, through the Turkey Dianet Foundation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0292par0385	You can call me Alevi, my good friend. I have a neighbor who was very close to my mother.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0293par0386	How many Alevi governors, how many Flames I've got, how many Flames in the bureaucracy?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0292par0387	That's not a hate speech. We even have a Flaming neighbor. You can call him that.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0294par0388	Again, Turkey is talking about the surplus of its source for the chairmanship of Religious Affairs. Let me rephrase that more than 96 per cent of the religious budget is made up of staff, salary and bonus costs. These are our employees, who run all the way to the village and the markets, especially during the plague, with the faithful factions, who are the hands of the elderly and the nation. Again, Turkey's national security policy is still based on its understanding that internal and external altars will divide the country and weaken it. There was criticism from one of our oratories, which began. Because of our country's geopolitical position, it is always affected by the crises and conflicts in our nearby geography, which we all know of. Multidimensional, multi-actored and fast-moving, and the new world order makes it necessary for our country to develop prerequisite policies against unpredictable threats and risks and always be prepared. These issues are considered especially when our country's national security policy is being shaped. Again, there was a question about our National Intelligence Agency that took over the duties of the OSCE ministries? Has it become President Erdogan's special intelligence organization? The duties of the National Intelligence Service are not and cannot be found, of course, except under Article 4 of Law No. 2937, in areas where the text is edited. Even such a statement is unfair to the efforts of every citizen who has worked for the safety of our nation in the organization. Again, there was a statement about the MIT saying, "Is it true that there was an assassination charge against a Kurdish politician in Austria?" Again, to be associated with matters beyond the scope of the agency's mandate, which should not be respected by the speculative news that are trying to be associated with these issues, I would like to present this to the attention of each of our representatives, to their knowledge.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0295par0393	Omar South's MIT phones are still unaccounted for, Mr. President. Why did Omar South meet with MIT?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0294par0394	There was a question about non-assigned teachers, and why did you not appoint them? Again, 713,625 teachers have been appointed, and we have appointed about 20,000 teachers only in 2021, and another 15,000 teachers will be appointed next January.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0296par0396	There are 138 thousand teachers short.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0297par0397	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0294par0398	All opportunities have been mobilized not to victimize our teachers within budget opportunities, and this year they will be pushed at the highest level, and the appointment of teachers will be organised according to the maximum capacity of staff, which will be carried out.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0298par0399	What about the contract teachers? There's 138 thousand teachers short, 15 grand won't cover the need.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0294par0400	Mr. President, we have completed our comprehensive assessments of issues, including relevant, related budgets and activities of the presidential and interconnected organisation, as a result of the negotiations of the budget of 2022. I wish you all the best for our country and our nation to have the budget and final accounts of the presidential and presidential and relevant institutions and institutions concerned, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0299par0403	Congressmans, I believe that politics is made for human dignity, human dignity, human dignity. I care about my position. There's no way we can allow anyone or anyone here to humiliate the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation and offend any member of parliament. There's noise, sometimes we don't understand it, and I want to express in particular that no matter what its location, everyone has to pay attention to those values. I just want to say that I'm very upset about something: Now, there's Athila Sertel, a politician I've been following, and I can't call her shut up when she talks to me. I'm sorry, man. Come on. When I'm on duty or there's no yelling in any of the other friends, promise me we'll promise, even if our most screaming friend sends me a note, I promise. It shrinks us, shrinks us outside, humiliates us. Turkey has its basic problems, we say, it has its problems, of course. The ruling party also knows that Turkey has serious problems; outside, inside, you are saying it. But I see the fall of this coven as demeaning to the place where they're yelling and yelling at each other. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0300par0406	Mr. President, the first thing is, of course, you're very kind, but something is very subtle, and it can study until it's gone. Maybe his interest was busy at the time. No one has the right to hurt the MPs, no matter what they say. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for a clean language under the Civil Code 67. If at that point, when it's so thin, that kindness reaches its point of absence, we're not happy with it either. If you'll be so kind as to clarify, I'm very special...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0299par0407	It applies to everyone, the expression I use, for all speakers.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0300par0408	We had a request for the Vice President's invitation to a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0299par0409	Look, I've asked for the transcripts, I've asked for the transcripts after you've warned me, I'll look at them, and I'll tell you if there's anything there.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0300par0410	Yes, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0301par0411	Mr. President, you've passed my name.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0299par0412	Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0302par0413	He didn't mention your name, but it turned out to be you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0301par0414	People watching from Turkey may not understand why you went through it, why my name came up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0302par0415	He didn't say your name, but it turns out it was you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0301par0416	I'll ask for word on my position according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0302par0417	Your name never came up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0301par0418	"Atila Sertel" said.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0302par0419	No, he didn't, so it turns out he did.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0303par0420	He said: By Allah!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0304par0421	Yes, Mr. Sertel.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0305par0422	Mr. President, while I'm in Parliament, I have an understanding that, in fact, all of our people living in Turkey are trying to address their problems here, using clean language and not really offending anyone. Look, they're screaming even when we're talking here, and I won't answer them either. Mr. President, there's a gap here, 15,000 teachers said they're going to be appointed, and I've told Mr. Vice President that there are 138,000 teachers short in Turkey and that the appointment should be done accordingly; one. Second, I asked him, "What will happen to the teachers? " That's what it's all about, I've never used an offensive or insulting sentence. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0306par0426	Thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 Now, in order to speak, on behalf of the individuals, against Mr. Feridun Bahshi, MP of Antalya. Here you are, Mr. Bahshi.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0307par0465	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on my own behalf on the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute you all. Since day one, we've complained about this nobran, this separative language, and we've always said that language shouldn't exist. This language is much more meaningful when used by the Vice President. (APPLAUSE) Vice President, I'm not even going to pronounce our party's name right...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0308par0467	Vice President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0307par0468	I'm not saying any more, I'm stopping here. I can use the same language and style; I can show the same norb, the same arrogance, but I won't break my style, my tongue. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, 19 years ago -- I can say AKP here, but I won't -- when the EC PARTY came to power, it had three goals. What were those goals? The fight against 3Y is poverty, corruption and bans; the party's name is Justice and Development. Four ministers and their children and many politicians were betrayed by the Iranian con man and fought for destruction. Although office officials from the party headquarters were identified as buying luxury vehicles and pulling powdered sugar, the process was not handled, but fought corruption. Not just tax debts, but interest, but the fact that the five - part of the gang was wiped out was fought. As they came to power, they also struggled with poverty by starting to sell half a bagel today. They struggled with poverty by bringing the minimum wage to nearly half of China on the dollar. They struggled with poverty by making our people bread out of garbage, picking up fruits and vegetables from the marketplace. Our oath took its first share of the bans, then T.C., then the right to criticize, then the right to a demonstration, then the right to a fair trial, the right to a deposition, and the lack of time, which I couldn't count on. Dear lawmakers, this freaky system called the presidential government system has turned everything upside down. As adversity grew, the system of separation of powers was eliminated, and all the forces were gathered in the hands of one man. Turkey has never been so helpless in foreign policy, it has not been reduced. Democracy has never been more weakened, and Turkey has never been more alone in the international community. Dear lawmakers, the issues we discussed during the budget talks were the general issues of the nation. Where our people go, where our family goes, where our nation goes, where our state goes, where justice goes, where freedom goes? Yeah, and we'll keep asking all that. Dear lawmakers, the primary duty of states is to create standards for its citizens in honor of people, honor and dignity. From what point of view, our people have been left helpless in poverty and poverty. The ruling of the Good Party is near, and it will solve all these problems. We will be the guardians of the child who is left on the street; we will guard the honor of the women who are subjected to violence; we will solve the problems of the millions who are underpaid, who are underpaid, who are not able to live, who are not able to live.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0309par0476	Here, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0307par0477	The trouble with the farmer is with the farmer who can't sow or reap, who can't sell, who can't sell, who can't make a living with what he's selling. In the glory of the palace, while the nation struggles in poverty, there is no saving the glory of the people who say, "How virtuous is the situation. " As our President-in-Chief, Meral Akşener said, if they own the Kodamans, we have the poor; we have the wives, friends, allies; if they have the spouses, friends, allies, pensioners, farmers, shopkeepers, peasants; if they have the arrogant five-alarm gang, we have the unappointed teacher; if they have the 5-10 paid advisers, we have the unemployed young; if the rapists, the rapists, the rapists, the rapists, the women who do not bow down to them, we have the women of Turkey. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the Veteran Assembly and the Great Turkish Nation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0309par0481	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0482	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. We are the opposition party; like other opposition parties, we consider it an honor to address the government's implementations from the free seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course, there will be questions for those who are responsible for the execution, and even though we do not even have the minimum respect for them, we have the utmost respect for both this Assembly and this saintly nation. I said we'd ask questions. But Mr. Vice President stood on the stand, and in a very aggressive manner, he made statements that led to the insulting proportions of our party.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0311par0487	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0488	I return his words to him, and I place his responsibility as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which will tolerate the criticism of the opposition. Now, our party's name is the Good Party, and it's written in our charter, and you may not have been very familiar with good and good and good, and you have addressed us as the IPO. We're not the kind of people who pull strings and apologize later, Mr. Vice President. [[A round of applause from the Good Party and CHP]] We'd want answers to our questions, and we'd expect the problems of Turkey's troubles to be expressed by you -- of course -- we'd expect them to be expressed by you, of course -- in the middle of our questions; Mr. Sakarya MP asked when the tank would arrive, and I expected you to answer those questions instead of insulting us.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0312par0492	I told you in detail.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0493	Now, look, I'm trying to use a very appropriate language, and as long as it's based on the stress from fatigue, stress from stress from time to time, sometimes there are things that people don't want to say, and if it comes out of my mouth, I'm sorry; it's a virtue to apologize, but we can soften the harshest words by using our eloquence. Now, Mr. Secretary has returned to our ranks, charging us as if he had forgotten that we voted yes to the government's thesis on cross-border operations.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0313par0495	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0496	It wasn't enough, it implied that we were negotiating with dark debris and external forces behind closed doors, and we were negotiating with them; I asked him to make it concrete to whom he said it, and I repeat it again, if he can make it concrete, I'll be very pleased, but if he escapes like he did on the stand, I'll refer it to the couriers sent to Kandil and the Imrabahçe, and I'll refer to the people who were interviewed to him behind closed doors and in dark ruins, and I'll refer to Oslo, and I'll refer it to Dolmabahçe, and I'll refer it to the couriers sent to Kandil. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The state of the Republic of Turkey and its glorious Turkish Armed Forces operate across the border. We, as a Turkish citizen, call it a national issue.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0313par0500	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0501	We strongly condemn that it should be transformed into domestic political material against the opposition and, in particular, an occupation directed at the Good Party. We are a political party that votes yes to the budget of the National Intelligence Service, the budget of the Defence Industry, the budget of the General Command, the budget of the Security Directorate of the Interior, the budget of the Coast Guard, and we do so because it is a national responsibility. We want the Vice President to understand that. Now, when the speakers of this power and this power are particularly trying to fix what they've broken, they're trying to get a hero out of it. I need to see what they've broken...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0313par0504	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0505	We criticize this presidential government system, why do we criticize it? I mean, it's not like we're just ignorant people who can't make up for the criticism, the criticism, the basis. When the presidential government system went into effect, the dollar was $4.53, now $14.40; answer me that. (Applause) Euro was $5.33, now $16.10; answer that. You say you're trying to build new economic models; your president says separately; you say separately; the Treasury and Finance Minister say separately. Answer me this. There's poverty in this country, there's famine in this country, there's hunger in this country, the farmer can't get the sweat he put down, the pot isn't boiling, the economic troubles are building up and causing suicides.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0313par0507	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0508	Are you aware of the newspaper's third page, which contains police reports? Answer this. But you, no, sir, have done these things in the foreign policy field, you've done these things, and in that field, you're trying to make a hero of yourself trying to fix what you've broken again. Try to give up that error as possible because you were proud of the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project. (APPLAUSE) In Iraq and Syria, you were also very assertive in defending your past-based wrong policies. Now that you have cut off your relations with Egypt, and have been warned about it many times, you strive to make good contact with Egypt, and boast about it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0313par0510	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0511	You said to the United Arab Emirates in the newspapers where you made the headlines with instructions, you now welcome them with red carpets - the prince of it. This government's criminal report card is quite large, given our side. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] People are expecting you. Look, I'm telling you here: I know you've been taken a lot by the word "pride." When you look at the dictionary of the Turkish Language Foundation, it means to behave insolently, disrespectfully. Forgive me, Mr. Vice President, but you're not being very respectful. (PEOPLE Applause) I strongly urge you to show us some respect. Public opinion has an expectation. The budget came by melting more than a third and 40 per cent of it from the Commission to the Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last sentence...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0314par0517	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0310par0518	There's a question we've been asked by those who are interested in economics, people and those who have been hurt by all of this, and I'm going to ask you to answer that question. With this budget, this country cannot be managed, this government cannot be run by this budget. I wonder if you'll be able to make an additional budget. In this regard, Turkey wishes you to enlighten the Grand National Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Mr. President, thank you very much for your leniency, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0314par0522	Mr. Levent...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0315par0523	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as of this evening, we have completed budget negotiations for our presidency, along with our ministries and institutions. I thank every political party that contributes to this place, and especially its budget, to all the ministers we've ever heard on the stand, to our Vice President. In particular, in Turkey's context -- these conditions are not just conditions that can be explained by economic issues -- we today continue our politics today with an understanding that Turkey is aware of the brutal struggle and is on the side of its state, its nation, its government. We think that this policy, which we run with the understanding of the Cumhur Alliance -- in God's name -- will allow Turkey to see much better days both in economic and in political and in security, and in foreign policy. We're discussing the 4th budget of the presidential government system this year. Of course, after Turkey's particularly treacherous coup attempt on July 15th, the will that it has demonstrated under extraordinary circumstances, especially at the point of the emergence of the management system, is crucial to the new management system. In that struggle, our state, along with our nation, who fought hard for the existence of the Republic of Turkey, has made a very important decision in the coming together of the state-national will, and this decision has been put into practice -- 51, 52 per cent of our nation's commitment -- as well. I'd like to express here today that we strongly reject the bad words, the unacceptable definitions, the adjectives that are expressed about the system that is being implemented. In Turkey today, it is highly valuable that Turkey, in an environment where the world needs political stability so much, continues its course in a strong political manner, with a stable understanding of governance. History will surely write this stability these days, and we are sure of it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0316par0527	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0315par0528	We are also aware of what is happening in Turkey's conditions. We, along with our nation, met with thousands, tens of thousands of thousands of people, citizens, and listened to the troubles of our citizen. Yeah, we said you had problems, we knew about them, but they cut us off right there, so, yeah, we've got problems. May we pass these days; unity, together we shall pass, they said, our citizens. I'm going to fix the economy. He said, "There's trouble on the street, this nation in poverty." He said, "We are well aware that this road will not be taken with those who ignore the future of the country, the security of the nation, the back." He told us. So don't worry, we're with you, hopefully we'll overcome these challenges.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0316par0530	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0315par0531	Hopefully, Turkey has the power to eliminate the threats we face at the Beka level, and the focus of that power is -- God willing -- is the Cumhur Alliance. At this point, as long as this will is in the open, he says, "Hopefully, we will come to the conclusion," and I wish that the presidential budget would be a blessing, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0316par0533	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0317par0534	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Oktay, at the beginning of your speech, you said: "The price increases and the fluctuations that are unintended cannot be the fate of Turkey." It's not really, it's not Turkey's destiny. There's a great economic expert, the cause of interest, the result of inflation. He came up with a dissertation that followed the thesis of that great economist, and because of the ministers and the government, there are disproportionate price increases and courtship fluctuations, and Turkish lira is being reduced to worthless stamps. It's not fate, it's the president of the Justice and Development Party, and as he talks, the ribbons are fluctuating, the Turkish lira is losing value. For him, we know it's not fate, and you know it. You've admitted it, it's not our destiny. Second of all, you just said that by mentioning the name of our party, the HDP does not support our national efforts. Now, I've thought about it, so I've made a little list like this, wondering which national efforts we don't support. We really don't support your national efforts, Mr. Oktay: we don't support your national effort to make Turkish lira worthless stamps. We don't support the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. We don't support your efforts to pursue this country's companies, its lands. We were talking about a five-way gang, a minister said yesterday: "Yes, there are five companies, 30 companies. We don't support your efforts to exploit the rights of a citizen by giving a tender to the gang and to your 30 subsidiaries. We don't support your national effort to increase inflation to 50 percent of the cost of living. We don't support your national effort to exploit laborers, tradesmen, farmers, women, young people, disabled people, pensioners. We don't support your national effort to raise broadly defined unemployment to 23 per cent. We don't support your Turkish-type economic invention, your national effort to cheapen labor, goods and companies and sell everything. We don't support your major failures in foreign policy, your national efforts. Look, you've made a huge national effort and you've narrowed Turkey down to the gray list in FATF, and we don't support your national effort. Why did FATF fall to the gray list, Turkey? You are not taking the necessary measures to prevent al-Qaeda and ISIS financing. On the grounds that Turkey has been dropped to the gray list, we have no support for your national effort.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0318par0539	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0317par0540	We do not support your national effort to confront sanctions in the Council of Europe. In international indexes, from law to democracy, from economy to human rights, we don't support your national efforts to bring Turkey to the end in all indexes. We don't support your national efforts in that area when we see pages of violations in the European Union progress report. In the United Nations reports, we do not support the fact that Turkey is being evaluated as being under the protection of those who commit crimes against humanity in Syria. We do not support that you have made Turkey part of the religious power of attorney wars. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0318par0543	Pack it up, yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0317par0544	I'm picking it up. Now, it's your foreign policy that makes noise all over the world. That's what you're talking about! We don't support these national efforts; failure in the Eastern Mediterranean, failure in the Aegean, failure in Libya, failure in Europe. We don't support your national efforts. Mr. Oktay, I can extend these further, but since our time is limited, I'll settle for that. And because of these national efforts, you've ruined Turkey, you've made the people poor, and you're moving on. We're fighting for you to stop this, as a matter of fact. You left no divisions, no balance control, no human rights, no rule of law. We have no support for your efforts, Mr. Oktay. Let me tell you one thing, look, we support your effort. We support an effort, you know what?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0319par0548	Yeah...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0317par0549	I'm finishing, sir, my last sentence.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0319par0550	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0317par0551	Thank you. You know, when you talk about artificial intelligence, we really support your dream of an artificial intelligence, bravo. 'Cause you can only build your mental imagination there, and we didn't see the glow in the speeches here, I'm sorry, I have to tell you that, too. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0320par0554	Mr. President, we do pick on each other later, don't we? There's bullying...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0321par0555	The group is one of our vice presidents...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0320par0556	So we'll pick him up later.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0321par0557	Mr. Free, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0559	Mr. President, the system is complex and complex, and the unelected figures of the system are highly complex. For days, we have experienced the kindness of ministers who had been disciplined in Parliament, the disgrace of which the devoid of it, and the disgrace of which the President's pen of ink has shown on the stand. The standard issue of parliament has been determined by lowering the level of the appointed from the parliamentary experience and the language used for the chosen. If the example given from America is not a distortion, it's an ignorance. Right, in America, the vice president defends the budget, but when the voter votes -- male or female -- he knows who the vice president is in the campaign, and he sees it on the compass. In this regard, strong support tells me that your partner in the Republic Alliance, the Nationalist Movement Party, should have been elected vice president in the revision proposals they saw as the system's flaws, but also made public. Mr. Sentop also says that someone appointed should be the president of the Parliament twice elected to be the president of the presidential office. You know all this, but that's why you're doing this complex approach from this complex system. If you get out of the box one day, when you show your stance that day, no one will say anything to you, but until then, you must use the language of respect for every member of this Parliament, and I will express my reserves on that matter in a moment.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0323par0561	It's mutual.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0562	But there is no other president, the prime minister, who has expanded the area of freedom this far. The expression is exemplary and truly terrifying, mind-blowing. Boğaziçi University students are in prison. The MPs of this Parliament have gone to jail, they have gone out, they have been thrown out again, they are in jail again, elected mayors are in prison. Soma miners are on their way to walk, despite the Constitutional Court's ruling, what you drag along dies in sleepless traffic accidents. You're gassing a student in front of Congress for the right of housing. You're dragging journalists into court who are reporting that Fahrettin Altun....has violated the zoning ban.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0324par0564	What did Fahrettin Altun do, brother?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0325par0565	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0566	The mindset of Eve, who defends Pinehemin and her stream, speaks of expanding the freedom of mind that dares to have her wives in reverse handcuffs, making Uncle Memduh of Hadjibektalı resist JES in Manisa Salihli. Mr. President, we'll report to the embarrassing reports that the May 13, 2014 disaster, Soma, 301 lives are dead, and there are some who boo the President on May 14th because he tried to rally. Months later, Joseph Yerkel was ashamed, and apologized. Believe me, six years later, they sued 34 people on February 22nd this year. Who are 34 people? It's either the miner or the miner's next of kin, not anyone else.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0325par0568	Mr. Free, let's pack it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0569	I'll finish, Mr. President. There's some more. Six years later, in the pain of Soma, the killers of Soma have come out, and on that day the man who had been hurt, you make him crawl in cases for insulting and booing the public official on his duty. What a freedom! What's this grudge? On the other hand... orange, stay there. Look, stay there because of this: those oranges fell down, five of our friends jumped out. You know why? I went. What did I tell the president? Mr. President, we don't let the councilman pick oranges on the floor because of the actions of a friend of ours. I've had paper-throwers, I've had them picked up, I've had my congressman round it up. We, look...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0326par0573	The script!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0327par0574	That's the script, the script!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0575	Sir, if I didn't tell the president... the Clerk is a witness, the President is a witness.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0328par0576	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0577	Thanks to the president, my friends, here I am. He said, "I'm out of here."
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0328par0578	I'll tell you, Mr. Freeman, just a minute... Now, when the oranges fell out, when I was about to put my foot down on him, Mr. Freeman came here. I'll have my fellow MPs round it up. When I told them, they picked it up and took it away.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0580	I said we wouldn't find it right for the jars to collect.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0328par0582	Mr. Ozgur, here you go, pick it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0583	Oh, if you look at him, who picked him up? For example, you were at a rally, you were separated, the Turkish Flags were on the ground, and those flags were collected by Malatya Youth Arms on August 8, 2014. Likewise, before the April 16 referendum, he collected the Turkish Flags you left on the floor in Mush, the Ülkü Januarys in Mush. We'll break it, we'll dump it, we'll pick it up from behind. You say, "You leave the Turkish flag on the floor, you leave it, you go, the Republican People's Party gathers it." You haven't had your share of the action. Here's the video, Mr. President. Oh, my last word, Mr. Oktay, is that there are debates that this Assembly consumes, and who was doing what on the night of the July 15 coup? [[NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, ……]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The last thing...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0329par0588	One last minute, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0589	Because one day these issues were raised. When someone was sitting next to my president -- one on the plane, one on the plane -- the first time he picked up the free private phone, an hour and a half later, what did he say? He said they wanted to go to the parliament, that they were on their way, and that I would return by the first means I could find them. He congratulated the Free Private here with his davudi, his loud and fatherly voice, and his body manner; 18-20 members of the AK PARTY group came in, stood in line that night; A Haber. Until today we have lost their rights, but tonight we stand up and applaud Free Special. We stand behind the elected government, the elected Parliament; we stand against the coupgers. I said so. On top of that, the current Ankara University Rector wrote such a bricky book. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0329par0592	Here's my final promise, as a continuation of a heated conversation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0322par0593	At the end of my speech in parliament, our general president's instructions are to take care of democracy, parliament. He'll come as soon as he can, I'm here on his orders. I said so. After I said these things, a wise man came up: where was he, where was he? So, we're wasting that argument: it comes down to someone hiding in the Ilgaz tunnel, the other one coming down, waiting in the hangar for four hours before the tower was cleaned, and then it comes down to the Home Secretary watching in Georgia. So everyone will know their place, their limits. On the 15th of July, we are the ones who address the Republican People's Party, the Free Special, the President General.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0330par0595	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0329par0596	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0330par0597	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've finished budgeting our ministries, and today we've discussed the budgets of our presidency and its subsidiaries; we've finished; I thank all of our contributors, our Vice President, our Commission, all the MPs. Mr. President, good friends, democracy is respect for different ideas, patience, patience. Since this morning, 70 minutes of HDP, 70 minutes of PTA and 70 minutes of CHP friends have spoken, some of whom we have listened with great respect, some of whom we have listened with regret. But during that total period of time, our group followed the process with great maturity, with patience, even with insults, with strong accusations, even with patience, and even more so, sometimes with throwing away products that we call "deniality."
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0331par0600	I wish you would appreciate it, Mr. President, for God's sake, I pray.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0330par0601	...there have been subtle statements to the spirit of the House, images we've never wanted to see, images we're ashamed for you, yet we've followed the process with patience, with a smile, with a subparity of power. Mr. President, we know that lies make noise, the truth is calm. We know why you're yelling; keep yelling, we're not complaining. Mr. President, we don't appreciate you yelling at our vice president from the beginning of this morning when all parties began to respond to the opposition's accusations on behalf of the government. The equality of weapons is a basic human rights value. If you're making a claim, let it be the answer. The right to defend is a sacred approach, and if you're making a claim, that's a defense. Where are you going to tell me, and you won't get an answer? Where's the accusation, the insult, but you won't answer that? Claim, defence, execution. The defense system, the Istiklal Courts, are far behind, Mr. President. Dear friends, the Civil Code, of course, binds the Vice President, but it also binds us; the Charter is for all of us, for all MPs, for all members of the government. In short, the Charter binds you, not us, but all of us. How well the elders have said: don't say words to the face you'll look at, that you'll be ashamed of. All Mr. Vice President's statements are a repeat or answer to what they say today, and there is no new claim. The expression you're angry with, the way you're upset with the gangster -- which he didn't say -- Mr. President -- is that you don't answer the gang's claim you've told countless times this morning.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0332par0605	He said he did.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0330par0607	I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0333par0608	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0330par0609	I don't want to fight, I don't want to prolong the pollen; we have a lot of work to do today, we're going to have an additional four points. Anger comes, eye goes black, anger goes away, face goes black. Don't shout, don't exaggerate, calm down, Mr. President. The claim to design politics by shouting, threatening, threatening is far behind. You won't shut me up, you'll get the answer you deserve in a manner that suits us! (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The AK PARTY is the will of the nation, and we will continue to defend its rights. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0333par0612	Burcu Haným...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0613	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0333par0614	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0615	Now, we'd like to speak to our Burcu MP, but I do care if he goes on record as follows:
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0335par0616	You should've just said that. You talked for 15 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0617	Leave him to me, Mr. Secretary, leave him to me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0335par0618	Yeah, but it doesn't work anymore, so the law has to pass.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0619	I didn't come and instruct your undersecretary while you were doing the ministry. You shut up and leave it to me. I know my business.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0335par0620	Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0336par0621	Now we're racing with time, so, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0622	Sure. No, Mr. Oktay's attitude has suspended his sensitivity to the economy of procedure; it's over. Yes, all rights will be used.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0337par0623	You're always locking up the House, saying it's a legal economy. Your job is to lock up the House.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0624	Mr. President, Mr. Oktay says...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0338par0626	Mr. Free, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0339par0627	Where's the maturity? I thought you were listening to maturity.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0628	It says: "Turkish People's Assembly has a law, like a gang member, the language of hatred of a man who says, "There's something wrong with that." As a member of the gang, he says. He is a member of two places: the first is a member of the Republican People's Party; the second is a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a member of the gang, we are at a point where if we are not to be corrected -- we will wait for correction -- we will use the right to answer -- if we are not to be corrected -- then we are at a point where we will make a request to run the Internal Charter. He says, "Why did you call the people a member of the gang?," he says. When he is spoken to, he says in his speech: "Because he used the word "Celebrity," he says in his speech: "There is a fund in this budget for a group of 5" -- it is earmarked for public-private cooperation. We call those contractors the gang of five. No one's calling you gang, but in Burcu Hanım's speech, there's a fund for the group of five. You're calling it a gang member.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0340par0629	You've given contracts to the gang. You're saying! You mend yourselves!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0334par0630	This will be corrected, this must be corrected, but because of the attack on the right of character, we want to speak according to the second joke of 69.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0340par0631	Fix yourselves first!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0341par0632	Mr. President, after Burcu Haným, Antalya...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0342par0633	Mr. Beştaş, I promise Burcu Haným, then Kemal Bey...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0341par0634	No, let him be restrained so I can...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0342par0635	I'll make a promise to Kemal Bey.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0341par0636	Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0342par0637	Okay, I'll give it to Kemal Bey.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0343par0638	On what?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0342par0639	Burcu Haným...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0344par0641	What is it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0345par0642	Mr. President, since when did it become a gang member of the high-profile lawmakers, the mother who couldn't buy diapers for her baby, the manufacturer who couldn't feed her cow, the farmer who couldn't dump fertilizer in her field, the tradesman, the teacher, the student's pensioner, the worker, the citizen's distress? Who was the orator who called me a member of the gang? Who has been sitting at the table with the terrorist leader of the Imralı until yesterday, who called me a member of the gang? Did you come here to defend the budget of the presidency, or did you come here to defend the budget of the contractors you've enriched with guarantees in public? I don't have any gang membership, I don't have anything to do with gangs, but I'll always stand up for those who stand up for gangs, those who stand up for gangs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm not a gang member from the grandson of Ismail Sergeant of the War of Ismael! (HPP) The land of salvation and organization; the air is harsh, manly Afyonkarahisar is not a gang member! (HPP) There is only one place that I am honored to be a member, proud to be a member, and that I will be a member until my last breath, which is the Republican People's Party founded and entrusted by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. (HPP) I fear no one but God, and I fear not you at all, except you who fear you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0346par0647	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0347par0648	Mr. President, honored members, everyone's compliments. Mr. Vice President, the Shafi people have falsified what I said about the toast. Yes, I repeat, the Shaphis do not pray behind the Hanefis on their own account, but one.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0348par0650	You're lying!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0347par0651	You're lying. Two, I'm a Flame, but long enough to respect and learn all the beliefs. Look, we're the drill of what we know, what we know, what we know, what we say, what we don't, and what we don't know, we listen. Come on, let's discuss whatever faith you call it. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Yes, Alevilik was banned from Ottomans; Alevilik was banned from the Ottomans in 1826. Mahmoud forbade it, and the Law on the Sealing of Alevilik, Tekke, and Zawiyah was prohibited. Why do you have to go through this? Let me explain it to you one by one. Now, Mr. Vice President and the esteemed deputies sitting in rows, don't underestimate the destruction of the people, there's treasure in the ruins. Who are you talking to? I am a man of truth and truth. Of course, I'll know about the Shafiy and the Sunni. And I'll respect it. I'm telling the truth because I know and respect it, and you're falsifying it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0349par0653	You don't know, you don't know!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0347par0654	You don't know your own beliefs. Learn and come! Come, together, let us expound the truth, the knowledge, the knowledge, the knowledge, all of it, if you have any knowledge. Come on in, in the club, in the square, on TV, everywhere. If it's Yazid, it's Huseyin.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0350par0656	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0349par0657	It's time for the people to divide the religion. Woe to you for what you did not divide into a religion.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0351par0658	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0350par0659	Who picked on you?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0351par0660	Yeah, he was a separatist. My master, Shafi, prays behind Hanefi, and Hanefi prays behind Shafi. It's a separatism.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0352par0661	Why won't you promise? There's been a lot of abuse.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0350par0662	Mr. Vice President, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0353par0663	Thank you, Mr. President. A few things about myself have been used, and I want to use my right to answer them, and some of them are about general...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0354par0665	First, explain the matter of this gang.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0355par0666	Mr. Free, just a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0353par0667	A definition has been given from the dictionary -- about being disrespectful -- has been given a definition of conduct, but there are some words and concepts in society that contain expressions beyond the definition of the dictionary. I myself have never been disrespectful to the House, nor do I behave. This is the establishment of our nation's will, our nation's will, and I'll say it every chance I get, but I can't accept this word, I'll return it, I'll return it, I'll return it, and I'll do it; it's one. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second: The issue of July 15th has been brought up. Under the leadership of our President on July 15th, it is very clear where we fight our nation, how we fight it, and our nation knows it well. So I don't need any new explanations or arguments about it. As for the gang, this concept has been used, used against us all day, used in different ways, so I used it, not against any individual, but by expressing the general, as well as using the expression "like consciously." Therefore, there is no such thing as a member of the gang. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0356par0673	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0357par0674	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0356par0675	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0357par0676	Mr. President, please, I'd like to tell you from here to be contained. We had a very long discussion today about the statement of the HDP MP of Alevi -- maybe not all of our group were here, so I want to repeat -- that language is not true, that language is not useful to anyone. I said, "I am an imam,' and I said, "We do not ask the religion of the imam which we pray for. We pray. So this language is a dangerous language, a false language. Mr. President, I didn't want to talk about it on the stand, but there is one more thing. Mr. President, he's saying the same things again, as if we'd never discussed the matter of the Chankrý.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0356par0678	Come on, I'll translate what you're saying: it's not us who turned Alevi against Sunni, Sunni against Alevi.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0357par0680	That's it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0356par0681	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0357par0682	Mr. President, just a second... Mr. President, we have orders to shoot down the traitor's track at the alleged location in Çanrı. Everyone knows who's where on July 15th, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0358par0684	Mr. President, is it you who deny the rights of Alevi?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0359par0685	He who denies the rights of Alevi is not one of us, and he who denies the rights of Sunni is not one of us.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0358par0687	Thank you, thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0360par0723	Congressmans, the talks on the eighth round are complete. Now, let's move on to questions and answers. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0361par0726	Thank you, Mr. President. I have four questions for Mr. Fuat Oktay. 1) Is it true that there are 900 million refugees and immigrants in Turkey? 2) How much extra has our country spent on the Syrians so far? Is it true we spent $90 billion? How much has the European Union paid Turkey so far? 3) How many Syrians have already returned to their country? Do you have a projection for a voluntary and safe return? Don't you think the hospitality has grown longer? Can you give me a return date? 4) Is it true that 900,000 Syrians were made citizens of the Republic of Turkey and that they would vote in the elections? Thank you. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0362par0734	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0363par0735	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, I want to thank and congratulate all of our employees, especially our Defense Industry President, for the investments of our country's defence industry, which is very important for the futures of our armed forces, which have raised our country's reputation and made our nation proud. We are deeply convinced that the Visionary Youth Programme, which has been set up to direct our young people to the defence industry, will contribute to the success and strengthening of our Turkish youth, Turkey. Finally, is there any study to put honorary Koran courses and proxy imams under the leadership of the Ministry of Religious Affairs? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0364par0739	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0365par0740	Thank you, Mr. President. In our Ýzmir Province building, our comrade Deniz Poyraz was murdered. Fascist killer spent months exploring around the HDP. What did the MIT do in the process, do they have any information? Is the killer's relationship with SADAT been investigated? On October 8, 2018, Ayten Ozturk was handed over from Beirut to MİT (MIT) on October 8, 2018, then suffered severe torture in an unknown place in Ankara for six months outside the official record; he was arrested and now under house arrest. In what provinces and how many of these torture chambers of the MIT are there? Diyanet, who says that Cemev could not be a temple, spends his taxes on denial and assimilation from Alevi. Is this in accordance with the Constitution and human rights law? Are there any relevant investigations into the abuses of Koran courses?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0366par0744	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0367par0745	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Oktay, is it true that Professor Ali Erbas, Vice President of Religious Affairs, Dr. Burhan Worker, and some of the Bible staff, have been pressured to buy books by mosque imams and muezinis, to launch administrative procedures on those who didn't buy them? Is it true that politically pressured by mosque imams and muezzins of President İbrahim Kala's book to be bought, to begin administrative action on those who did not buy it? Isn't it a crime to have books written on commercial concerns bought by imams and muezzins in our mosques? Does the mosque imams and muezzins have the obligation to buy books written by the President of the Religious Affairs and the Chairman of the Presidency? I won't have enough time if I count the names of these 12 books. Really...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0368par0750	Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0369par0751	The new Treasury and Finance Minister Nureddin Nebati says if we stop, we'll all end together, if we win, we'll all win together. The minister's salt is dry, the people are always sinking, and the winners are always the same names as the five-alarm gang. You didn't share the blessing with the citizen so you'd all like to share the burden. My brother, Cengiz Yazoğlu, asks: "Are only the poor and the small-incomes being tested by hunger?" The minister said that outside forces have no effect in the economic crisis, and we are confused, and the President talks about games that have been played on Turkey. In this case, is the President telling the truth or the Minister? Again, why were the contracts of 56 expert sergeants serving in the peacekeeping force in Libya unilaterally dissolved? Is this what you call our soldiers who represent Turkey in difficult conditions in foreign lands? All this work for nothing? Why don't you stand behind our soldiers who work for their lives? We didn't understand anything about the new economic model. It's written and written in foreign newspapers that the State of Emergency will be declared. Will you inform the High Council? Who's the inventor of this model? We expect you to clarify the subject of ASELSAN...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0370par0755	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0371par0756	Thank you, Mr. President. Why is the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs created by taxes of all citizens, while work is being done only for the belief of a certain party in society? Why is the mission to preserve and discriminate against other beliefs in this geography, Alevis, Christians, Jews, and Jews? Why doesn't the Ministry of Religious Affairs make a noise against the trial and punishment of religious scholars who read Kurdish government and laws? Is Kurdish worship forbidden according to the Ministry of Religious Affairs? Graveyards are being destroyed because of Kurdish expressions on gravestones, and families are asked by law enforcement to destroy graves. Those who resist are threatened by the investigation. How do you explain how families have to bury their children in a way that is contrary to their own beliefs and values, by destroying their graves, by preventing burials and condolences?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0370par0758	Mr. Imir...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0372par0759	Thank you, Mr. President. When was the last time the National Security Policy Document was changed, and with what content, is it edited? Do you have any work for this? What is the reason for increasing the budget of the communications presidency by 60.88 per cent? We want you to go public with this. It has been seven hundred and eight days since Hürmuz Diril went missing in Beytüşşebap, Şırnak; and Gulistan Doku, who has been missing in my class, has not been heard for eight days. Is there an active investigation? We'd like to ask you one more time, where is Gulistan Doku? Where's Salil the Hürmuz?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0370par0761	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0373par0762	Will there also be investments in defence industries in three organised industrial areas, 16 industrial sites, 1 free zone, 2 technological development zones, Air Insurance, Ana Tamir, TAKSAN, ASPILSAN, important industrial institutions and geopolitic positions in Turkey in 1926? When will the President of Communications, who is supposed to be an officer of the state, who has no idea what he does but responds to politicians, who is supposed to be an officer of the state and who is a member of the AKP, abandons his role as a state official and starts politics? Besides, how many places does the President of Communications get paid? Does the president of the Religious Affairs, the Bani of the Republic of Turkey, intend to commemorate Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Ministry of Religious Affairs? Has the Great Leader done or will he do anything about the clergy who have insulted Ataturk? According to what criteria and data the domesticity rate in the defence industry is estimated 80%...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0374par0767	Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0375par0768	Thank you, Your Honor. Archives are the memory of a nation and country, the memory of a state without an archive has been destroyed, and it has been disconnected from the history of the state. Our historical headshots are very valuable cultural assets, which need to be created to protect and transfer to future generations. Our government, acting with this precision, received the very modern archive building in 2013, where the world looked enviously at its instructions by our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Our modern archive, located in Istanbul's Paperhouse, has a total of 122,500 square metres of closed space, and 36,000 square metres of this is a storage area. In this storage area, we have a total of 123 kilometers of shelf length. The entire archive site has conditions for climate conservation in which the document will be preserved in a healthy manner; temperatures are between 18 and 22 degrees Celsius and humidity is between 45 and 55 per cent. At the same time, the entire site has a gas fire suppression system. Our headshots, previously scattered and extremely unhealthy, are preserved in very modern places. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0376par0771	Mr. Ocalan...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0377par0772	I have a question for the President. I ask that this problem be addressed through the Vice President: Why is law applied to some in this country, and not applied to others? See, as of March 2021, Mr. Abdullah Ocalan and his friends were unable to receive any news, a major isolation is being carried out. Mr. Abdullah, we need to clear the way for you to meet with Ocalan and his friends. This question must be addressed to the President. I know it's a question above your pay grade, but if this country is a state of law, this law must apply to everyone. Give up this double standard as soon as possible, open the Imran doors. As their parents and their lawyers, we'd like to speak with Mr. Ocalan and his friends as soon as possible, to get this country out of the politics of tension. Power is a goner, and send this to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as soon as possible. My respects.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0376par0774	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0378par0775	Thank you, Mr. President. It is 190 kilometers between Lüleburgaz and Pınarhisar, and there are five villages, the Pınarhisar-Lüleburgaz road through these villages. This road passes through the village without even the width of the sidewalk, so accidents happen all the time. The road bearing the full burden of the Limak Cement Factory also carries the burden of the lime factory. It also carries the burden of every grain warehouse in this region. When will this road be built? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0379par0778	Yeah, he's in charge. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0380par0780	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to answer some questions as soon as possible. There was a question about the National Security Policy Document regarding the MGK, which I actually included in my earlier talk. I'd like to say once again that it's been updated eight times since 1963, and at the end of the year 2019, it's been announced by the press that it's been updated, and that's already in the transcripts as well. Again, there was another question that came up, Mr. Erbast, the president of the Religious Affairs, and again, the subject of the mandatory sale of the books written by Mr. İbrahim Kalak. I mean, I don't know if this should be answered, but I wanted to answer it. It's out of the question for something like this to come up. Both of our friends would be terribly upset to hear that something like this has come up. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0381par0784	It's official, Mr. President. It's official.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0380par0785	I mean, it's not about the sale of books written by mosque imams or muezzins or anyone else, and it's not about Mr. Erbaş and İbrahim Kalkat. And I'd like to make it very clear. Again, there was a question within the framework of a statement from our Finance Minister, Mr. Nebati. This is, in fact, Mr. Minister, our Minister, we're all in unity, unity and solidarity on the same ship -- a statement based only on good reason, which means a joint struggle for Turkey's interests, and I think it would not be right to put meaning beyond that. Again, there was a question about civil servants' rights and fees. And I've said that a lot over here, actually, so let me rephrase that. Almost every time I was here, it was definitely on the agenda, and every time I said that, I said it countless times in the House transcripts. This is a legal framework, and there is only one place where public officials can get peace of mind about their board of directors or their control board memberships, and beyond that, it is impossible. I'm going to rephrase that. Such a thing is already out of the question, and if it were, it would have to be returned with a lot of criminal procedures. I'd like to rephrase that that can't happen. Again, questions about our defense industry. These questions have been repeated over and over again lately, but I would like to rephrase this with a positive purpose and a good intention: our defense industry is the apple of our eye, and the achievements that they achieve are the apple of our eyes. And not just in terms of how our security forces, or our military, provide for their products or support in terms of exports, but not in terms of economics; the technologies he's developed and the size of the AR-GE are really the apple of the eye, the pride of this nation, and it's a good thing not to wear them out. In particular, nothing about the sale of these companies, especially our leading companies, to countries in the Gulf, or to anyone else, is on the agenda, which is not on the agenda. More questions and reviews about the tank. And that's interesting enough that it has come from time to time, so no matter what happens in any area, the issue has been brought to this tank. The work on the tank, actually, you all know about it again. There are places, places that are disturbing Turkey's work in this area, so again there are restrictions, obstacles, embargos. We've reached the 80 percent. We owe it to the defense industry that we call the 80. In a sense, we owe it to all kinds of work, determination, determination, and determination, despite all sorts of embargos and obstructions, and by our young engineers and friends who work in these companies -- from the top to the bottom -- to our decision makers. Of course, the funds are in the same frame, and this is the sacrifice of our nation, and we have expressed our gratitude to our nation again, and I want to express it once again. That's the thing about tanks. So you can't develop the engine of the witness. I'm making it very clear from here that the bad neighbor is going to make us hosts. Our work in this area continues very seriously. Again, we're continuing our efforts to provide a power alternative, but also the design of the domestic power pack has been completed and the prototype tests are under way. It's also a compelling reason for the power pack to be provided for the party that will produce mass production. Of course, there are penalties for delays caused by the contractor. But the punishments from the country are related to restrictions, and that's what we've just expressed, and we're all going to see that, and we're going to see that together, we're going to get through this, and the ones who put these barriers in place are the ones that I wish we hadn't actually done it. On this occasion, they also own the tank engine. They will say, "It's not far." Regarding business safety and health, again, there has been 53.7 per cent improvements from 2002 to today, when I had the time to respond to the comment that Europe is the third place in business accidents in Turkey as well as the third in business accidents of those who have lost their lives and who have lost their lives and who have lost their lives. The seven-year period, along with the release of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, 6331, also recorded 40 per cent improvements. Compared to world and European countries, comparisons are only made through countries with data, with no access to all countries' work accident data. The number of people from European countries with regular work accident data is only 30. In addition, the type, coverage, resource, data collection and so on in the countries with access to data differ from the country to the country. In this respect, ▪ Business accidents appear to be the third and the first in the world, the first in the EU. It is a clear claim that our country is on a course similar to the countries in good positions in Europe and the countries of the world at the point of business health and security.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0382par0791	That's not true.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0383par0792	That's not true. The data at the point of occupational health and safety is much higher.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0380par0793	Again, according to the Court reports, there was a question and criticism as to why you did not appoint the disabled in public. Again, I'd like to give you this information -- since 2002, we've increased public employment by more than 10 times, at the end of 2002, the number of disabled individuals employed as officers of 5.777 -- especially to your attention -- has reached 62,337. In addition, the appointment of 750 disabled teachers was made by Mr. President at the meeting on December 3rd on the Day of the Handicapped. Public enterprises with disability deficits...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0384par0795	Now, in turn, in the matter of the budgets of public administrations in the eighth round, I will read the budgets and final accounts separately and submit them to your votes. I submit to your votes that the presidency be transferred to the central management budget in 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 General TOPLAM 3.890.381,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the presidency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the presidency in 2020 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Final Account for Central Management Budget for the presidency 2020 Total allowance 3.335.495.451.00 Budget Expenses 2,872.745.056.97 Canceled Fund 462,750,394.03 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the presidency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the president of the National Intelligence Agency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 3,483,231.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the National Intelligence Agency's presidency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the head of the National Intelligence Service will be transferred to the departments of the central management account in 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 Total allowance 2,452,287,475,67 Budget Expenses 2,449,479,837,15 Canceled Fund 2.807.638.52 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 135,044,87 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the National Intelligence Agency's presidency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Secretary General of the National Security Board shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. NEIGHBORIAL SECURITY PRODUCTION 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 55,520.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 of the National Security Board's General Secretaryship has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Secretary General of the National Security Board's Central Administration account in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 35,014.879,67 Budget Expenses 34,742,412,93 Canceled Grant 272,466,74 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the Secretary General of the National Security Board. I submit to your votes that the President of Religious Affairs shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 GENEL TOPLAM 16,098,580.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of 2022 of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the President of the Religious Affairs of 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs Total allowance 6.605.585.568.59 Budget Expenses 10.930.391.480.80 Emancipation Expenses 4.462.644.258.59 Canceled Grant 124,177,189,88 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 13.661,156,50 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2020 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the State Archives President will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 185,680.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the State Archives Presidency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the State Archives President's central management account of 2020 will be transferred into the chapters of his final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 Total Payment 109,350,000.00 Budget Expenses 101,484.667,26 Canceled allowance 7.865.332.74 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the State Archives presidency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the president of the National Courts shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 General TOPLAM 277.263,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the National Courts Administration was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the head of the National Palace Administration, the final account of the central administration, in 2020, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 Total allowance 288,579,247,19 Budget Expenses 277,625,991,37 Canceled Fund 2,421,030,27 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 8.532,225,55 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account for 2020 were adopted by the head of the National Palace Administration. I submit to your votes that the strategy and budget chairmanship will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 27.713.310.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the strategy and budget presidency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the central management account of strategy and budget chairmanship in 2020 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 559.649.539.00 Budget Expenses 488.140.371.83 Canceled Fund 71,509,167,17 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the strategy and budget presidency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the President of Communication shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022, those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 680.127,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Communication Presidency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Communication Presidency in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 Total allowance 443,305,000.00 Budget Expenses 440.883.343.77 Canceled Fund 2,421,656,23 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Communication Presidency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Defense Industry Presidency be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 153,974,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 153,974,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The central management budget of the Defence Industry Presidency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the section of the Central Executive Account of the Defence Industry Presidency in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 Total allowance 115,730,959,49 Budget Expenses 114.959.651.77 Canceled Fund 771,307,72 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 100,839.000.00 Collection 117.368.712.69 Refusal 449.04 Net Collection 117.368.263.65 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Defence Industry Presidency were adopted in 2020. Members of parliament, budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the eighth round have been approved. I wish them well. The eighth round of talks is complete. Thus, talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2022 and the 2nd Amendment on income and financing in 2020 have been completed with the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, which include Article 1 of the Central Account Law Proposal in 2022. In accordance with the programme, we will now discuss the provisions of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal in 2022, respectively, and vote. In 2022, after I have re-read the first article on the expense budget of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal, I will submit it to your votes. 2022 YEAR CENTER REPLICATES THE LAW OF THE BOTTOM Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (1,728,401,621.000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (III) private budgetary administrations include 155,249,695,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 10,238,553,000 to regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler, The grant is granted. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the ruler, which had previously been accepted: those who have not accepted... those who have not. I'm rereading Article 2 of the income budget: MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 1,448,944.74,742,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 156,332,386,000 Turkish liras, including 19,623,651.000 Turkish liras, 136,708,735,000 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 156,332,386,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 10,238,553.000 Turkish liras, including the income of regulator and auditory institutions on the table, 10,062.295,000 Turkish liras, 176,258,000 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, totalling 10,238,553 Turkish liras. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 244,600,000 Turkish liras. Now, I'm going to read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes. Here, read this: 01 Tax revenues 1,430,041,337,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 47,349,547,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Funds and Aids 14.220.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 119,607,950.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings $12,360.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collections 1,803,398,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Total Budget Profits 1,625,383,023,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Ret and Returns (-) 176,438,281.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Net Budget Profits 1,448,944,742,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. The difference between the sum of the first fikra of the 1st article (a) of the 1st article (ADDE 3-1) and the sum of the estimated incomes (a) in the first part of the 2nd article (a) is met with clear debt. On behalf of the PTA Party Group, Ankara MP Senol Sunat has asked for a statement on the matter. Here you are, Ms. Shenol.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0385par1017	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the well-being party on the third article of the income budget. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, we can't boast enough that our party president, who runs the country, is flying the country. We're so high up, we can't see down anymore, it's all happening up high. Have you ever seen the president of a country like this, lawmakers, who wrote the book of economics? There's nothing like it in the world.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0386par1020	Mr. President, there's too much noise.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0385par1021	For example, I keep in mind that if they have dollars, we have God. Remember, Mr. Erdogan, the great religious scholar, he made a good suggestion for the solution of unemployment. What did he say? The TOBB has 1,300,000 members, and if each member receives 1 person, unemployment will be reduced by 1,300,000. According to that theory, if every member of the TOBB had 10 people, unemployment would be largely over, but they're not listening, are they also members of the outside forces? The great master didn't do much, he threw six zeroes out of the money. What was he saying? Where have we come from? There used to be a million lira going to the toilet, and now there's a dollar going to the toilet. This is who we are. The Turkish lira is losing value to the entire country's money, the dollar's not going to stop rising, pass them on, one word from the great economist, another six zeros, and we'll surprise everyone. For example, the world's most famous economists are confused by the economic cause, the result of inflation, and they resent the fact that they've never thought of it before, and of course they're jealous. They can't understand, they don't know how it happened. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Congressmans, I just wanted to have a little laugh about us crying. It's about the 2022 budget. On October 20th, when the budget reached the Plan and Budget Commission at $1 trillion 751 billion, the dollar was $9.33, today, at this time, close to $15. So it melted almost two thirds of its way out of 2022. What does that mean? That means no more debts, more interest to the loan sharks, and most importantly, the tax to get on the back of the citizen, to choke him, lawmakers. Yeah, this budget doesn't reassure society, it's a budget of poverty and poverty. How are you against interest? Because of the economic policies you're implementing, the most important expense pens have to pay 240 billion interest. If this amount had not gone to interest, if the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of Family and Social Services had been divided, many problems would have been solved today; matters would have been solved for the people of YIT, the non-assigned teachers, the health workers, the pensioners who were sentenced to 1,500 lira. You're against interest, are you? I'm laughing. Not to reduce policy interest, lawmakers; delete students' KYK interest, delete the farmer's loan interest. The total interest payments of the AK PARTI authorities have so far exceeded $516 billion, 7 trillion 224 billion in Turkish money. What investments would be made in nineteen years, lawmakers, with half of that money. Or do you work for the interest lobby as an AK PARTY? [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Congressmans, the budget is open every year. The deficit in the 2022 budget is $278 billion. Can this explanation be continued under these circumstances? Do you trust Qatar? Do you trust the United Arab Emirates? Do you think they can help you? You've sunk the country, Congressmans, ruling lawmakers, I'm speaking to you: The country is on fire. You don't care if the dollar goes up, do you have other interests? Whose wealth have you added wealth to? Whose goods are you going to buy cheap again? Which thieves, money launderers, corrupts, crooks, smugglers? You're going to lower your voices and throw them in while the citizen cries out? When you open your mouth, those who cause the dollar to rise and Turkish lira to lose value are not afraid of God, nor are they ashamed of the servant? [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Erdogan, who calls you to cash your gold and change your change under the pillow, every time his head is in trouble, I say to you: Do it for the rich, even the citizen has no money left. Don't offend the children of these poor people who sell the ring and go to bed hungry at night. Congressmans, what does a citizen expect in exchange for his tax dollars? He expects public service to be quality, to live as a human being, to benefit more from rights and opportunities. Oh, yeah? Is there anyone in our country who thinks about civil rights and law while they're waiting for a budget deficit, interest payments, a guarantee to the building-business contractors? In our country, it is recommended to say, "Eat less, put your trust, give thanks." Why don't you get taxes on people who get 20 percent of the minimum wage, who get billions of dollars in interest? Justice and Development Party, yes, Mr. FO, Mr. FO, please listen. Where's justice? It's just a word on the Justice Department's sign. Development is very important. Yes, you have. Who? Uncountable supporters, elected contractors, and the unsubstantiated bureaucrats you've given five paychecks to. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] What did Mr. Erdoğan say in 2012? The money, like the flag, represents the power, reputation, independence of a country, such as the national anthem. The reputation of money is the reputation of the nation. Erdogan, who says it's no use saving money, stop wasting, stop corruption, keep your mouth shut, don't speak as you please, give it to your people and maintain the dignity of Turkish lira. Your priority is not your reputation as a palace, but the people's reputation. By the way, Mr. Erdogan speaks differently according to the conditions of the day, saying money has no color, no religion, no faith. Now, they're talking about a new model of economics. For the record, you can't fool the nation with the fictitious economic programs called the very new, very new, very important here. No one's left, and they don't like to listen. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Yes, Numan Survivor said it was immoral to invest the state's lira in dollars. He was a great, high-quality politician. Do you know what a real vice is, members of lawmakers?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0387par1035	It means,,,,, fo. It's not to call him by his name. Look how old you are! What a shame! What the hell is a "FO"?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0385par1036	It is he who pursues the property of the state like the property of his father, and his followers as his heirs, and strangers. Do you know what a real vice is, lawmakers?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0387par1037	What the hell is a "FO"? What do you mean? Where the hell did we end up?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0385par1038	The Treasury is to carry out guaranteed tenders through exchange. The real vice is selling Turkish citizenship to foreigners for $250,000...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0388par1040	You can't sell it that cheap.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0389par1041	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0385par1042	...the real immorality is to put the Turkish nation and the Republic of Turkey in the hands of international loan sharks, and the real immorality is to make the citizens of this country depend on dry onions. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Congressmans, stop making fun of these people with your mental nervous projects. With your first election so obvious, don't hurt this country any more. Erdogan, who declared a war on economic survival, should be the name of the Turkish nation's salvation war from now on, it would be the battle of liberation from the AK PARTY and the only man's regime. (PLAYING FOR THE GOOD PARTY) There are those who live far away from the nation, happy and happy in their own wonderland, so they don't get it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, I'm greeting.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0390par1048	No, Mr. President, there's no respect for language anymore. It doesn't suit you, Congressman!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0385par1050	We, the Good Party, will continue to shout from this stand and from the fields of our nation's troubles, problems, and solutions. God bless the Turkish Nation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0391par1053	Amen.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0392par1054	The MP Ahmet Erbaş of Kütahya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group who wants to speak on the matter. Here you are, Mr. Erbast.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0393par1057	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 3 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the Veteran Assembly. The 2022-Year Central Management's Budget Act proposed a 30 per cent increase in central management budget costs, offering $1 trillion 750 billion 957 million, budget revenues up by 33.7 per cent, 1 trillion 472 billion 583 million. The budget deficit has been offered 278 billion, 374 million liras, with an interest-free deficit of 37 billion 991 million. The budget balance is estimated to be negative 3.5% of the GDP. Dear MPs, 56 percent of my district, Kütahya, is a forest; 546 of our village, 530, is a forest village, so almost all of our villages are forest villages. 23% of the people of Kütahya live in forest villages. Our forest villagers have great socioeconomic problems. The forest is the only source of income for the villagers, the work of the Forestry Managers, and it's limited only to those jobs. The forest villager's lack of health insurance during the slaughter, low forest workers' costs and high cuts on daily wages, not being paid at the end of work, sometimes finding two or three months. All of this puts forest and agricultural peasants in a position to lose their villages because of the concrete transformation in the world and in our country. Forest villagers expect that we should be given a condition of forest villagers in the forest for work and hiring; they should be given a share of the revenues from mining activities in forest villages; from the sale of the forest village's products, to be reflected to the village; from a certain percentage of a certain land, from cutting, expelling, plant breeding, sewing, maintenance; and from the profit of forest villagers and cooperatives. We shouldn't bring our forest villages, which are economically the lowest part of society, to mind only in forest fires. In order not to increase the young unemployment rate in cities, we must make sure that forest and agricultural peasants do not leave their villages. Dear MPs, one of the means of transportation of the Çanakkale Bridge, a work fitting for our 100th year, must be passed through Kütahya. Balıkesir-Dursunbey-Kütahya and baneman-Simav-Fishler-Buycesir routes, Kütahya-Bursa road, Rabbit-Tunçbilek-Domanic-Niggöl connection to the region. In Simav, the Agricultural Development Organization of the Organised Sera was completed. We're hoping that Simav will be a town that will make a noise in terms of greenhousery. Again, the Simav SIMSAN Kobi Industrial Zone has become ready for investment and investors. We would be very happy if OEDAS's electricity infrastructure was added to the investment programme in 2022. We also expect your help in conducting open school exams in Simav. Dear lawmakers, agriculture is the lifeblood of a nation, a country. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk put it, you are free as long as you produce your own wheat, milk, flesh, science, and art. Kütahya is a thermal region, a hot spring area; we want tourism, but thermal water opportunities provide huge advantages not only to hot springs but also to greenhouses. We invite all the investors who want to work in the greenhouse, to Simav, Gediz, Emeth, and to Kütahiah, for short.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0394par1063	Knitsy, Knitsy!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0393par1064	Well, let's make sure there's an euphemism. In cities with thermal water like ours, agricultural incentives and greenhousery incentives must be different. Again, we have to reduce the electricity to the water supply used in agriculture.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0395par1066	Exactly, and so is opium.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0393par1067	Dear lawmakers, meat and milk executives are in great trouble. Especially the arrangement of food, medicine and shipping prices, the price of fertilizer, agricultural inputs will be life-threatening for our farmer. As part of rural development support, 50 per cent grants are provided to the machines our farmers need, which are stated to be implemented in settlements under 20,000 of the population, but some of our citizens, who are still living in farming, are unable to apply for this project. The removal of the rural area condition and the removal of the victimhood is important. Instead of the terms of land ownership, we think it would be appropriate for the farmer's registration system to be given an additional property requirement. Dear lawmakers, we have eight dams under construction, planned. Domanic Çamlıca Dam, Markets Orhanlar Dam, Rabbit's Tunçbilek Dam, Gediz Kayacık and Mt. Mt. Dam, Simav Krancık, Könenli and Rain Dam. However, Simav Tea, which will feed the Körenli in Simav, is extremely dirty, because of the wool washing factories in our region. Unfortunately, the decontamination facilities don't run for too much electricity. Cancer rates have gone up in the region. The water is very dirty, and I wonder how we'll benefit from the watering pond in agriculture. Again, Mount Murat is very important in Gediz, because Mount Murat is the water source of this region and the footman's water supply, and it is also a wonder of nature. We need to turn Gediz, the spas and Mt. Murat into a center of attraction. Dear MPs, I'd like to tell you about a village story that happened in Rabbit. Mr. Minister of Energy is here -- the villages of Omerler and Berke have been nationalized by the Turkish Coal Company in 1993 due to coal mines. These villages were founded in 2000 under the name of Omerler neighborhood of Rabbit. During this adoption, 332 families were given land, not given to 93 families, whose populations were written in different villages. While living in unconstituted villages, the Omers and Berke villages were in a difficult position, while livestock, agriculture and so on. They can't even go to their graves because they're in a coal field. Lawful fields must be paid, the land of 93 must be given, the population log of Omarler village must be taken from Yörgüç, and returned to Ömerbey neighborhood. I hope you can solve the story of this problem over thirty years ago, Minister. Speaking of rabbits, our county's natural values are of international interest. The only remaining pyramidal Karacam Forest in the world is the Rabbit. Again, the only species of karacham that enters the world's literature under the Turkish name is in the Seneryana forest. There are wild herds of beautiful wild horses in the Yaylatic Forest in the Rabbit. It must be protected and evaluated by a genetic detection of these herds of horses that go all the way back to the Ottoman cavalry. From above, the excavations of the Hiğük, called Kütahya's heart, appeared to be significant in the heart. Thus, the Kütahya, the host of many civilizations, added a new one to the known civilizations. Dear MPs, I thank the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change for the country's garden, which has a public library, Chinese sales store in Kütahya, and most important of all, for the grants for the construction and construction of the project, the urban transformation to the Kütahya district and the support for its 1453 dwellings, the markets, Domanic and Aslanapa. Also, I would like to thank our Ministry of Youth and Sports for the sports facilities in the sports halls, youth centers, at the Kütahya center, and in the districts of Kütahya. The whole city's expectation is that we look forward to the news of the Kütahya city stadium as soon as possible. Hopefully, Kütahya will get back to the public hospital and the maternity ward as soon as possible outside the city hospital, which turns into a snake story, and I'll get out of this chair and thank our health minister. Dear MPs, Turkey is among the first five countries to register most cultural values for UNESCO. The traditional Chinese art, which is part of the city's iconic and cultural identity that we registered to UNESCO in 2016, was also declared the common cultural heritage of man. Again, three Chinese artists from Kütahya have been declared the Living Treasure of Human Beings. For these studies, China and the capital of ceramics have been a source of happiness and pride for the Kütahya.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0396par1075	Here you are, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0393par1076	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, let's not sacrifice our voice to the social media monster that we're all complaining about, our local press, which is an important source, which is the 4th power of government. In order for them not to be abused and not to take control of interest groups, our local press must gain economic independence. That's why we need to give our local press life water with legal regulations. As I end my words with these thoughts and feelings, I salute the Veteran Assembly and your grand delegation.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0397par1079	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0398par1080	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Muş MP Gülüstan Kılıç Koçyiğit. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0399par1083	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start by respectfully greeting our dear people who are watching us at the beginning of their screens and our fellow political hostages who are still able to watch television at this hour in prison. Now we've been talking about the budget for days and we're really tired. What's the budget? It's basically a text that shows in whose name, how, where, when taxes are collected from the public. So it's actually a text that reveals the preferences of governments. We've been in opposition to the entire budget since the Commission, and we say that the AKP government's budget preferences, unfortunately, are not for the public, not for the woman, not for the worker, and ultimately not for the worker. On whose behalf is the budget offered by the AKP? In fact, in favor of capital, we need to express that there is a budget for contractors in favor of the 5 ▪ gang. Dear friends, you actually went to a referendum in 2018 to solve the big state crisis, in fact, in 2017. In the year 2018, you entered the presidential government system and said: "We will no longer patch in the Constitution, we will end restorations, we will change the system altogether." And when you said that, the dollar was 4 dollars dry, the dollar was 15 lira dry today. So the restorations you didn't like worked better than the system today, and you're actually blocking a whole system today. Now I'd like to present to you a few economic data about the budget, to be precise. There is a report published by DİSK-AR (DİSK-AR) on December 10th, and according to that report, the vast number of unemployed people has risen to 8 million 281. In fact, we know that this is leaning on 10 million, it's holding up. Also, broadly defined female unemployment is 29.9%. Look, there's 29.9% broadly defined female unemployment. And most importantly, in the last year, the number of people who have applied for unemployment allowance has risen to 1,408,000, and 1 million 408,000 have applied for unemployment allowances. What are all these numbers saying? It means what a great unemployment it is, what a great poverty it is, but more importantly, what a great woman's poverty it is, but unfortunately you don't care about it at all. Now, our peoples call to power: hear us. Those who sit in the throne seat, the people who live in palaces, the people who are drowned in the palaces, the people who don't get out of their luxury vehicles, the people who run their car five hours ago and warm their seat, we can't warm our home; we can't feed our child; we can't pay our child $10 a day; we put our child in school, but we can't find him, we can't find him. They're rioting. So, what do you guys do? I'll tell you what you do: you don't do dorms, but instead you let children be abused in illegal dorms, children beheaded in illegal dorms, dear friends. When the incident took place here in Karaman, we all said, "Let's go over this." Isn't this where the commission was set up? What was the result? At Erzurum Palandöken, the children were abused again and the abuser ran away. Just there? No, in many places, in many Koran courses, there are cases of abuse in many boarding schools, but unfortunately you don't see any of them. Look, a 12-year-old boy was found hanging by the door in the Koran School in the province where I was his deputy. What happened? The confidentiality decision was made immediately, and there is no progress in the investigation and the family is looking for it, and it says: "We can't access the file." I'm talking about a family who lost a child. What did you do? Has your governor made a statement? No, he's already working on more of a list of HDP MPs' protocols. He's not interested in the boy who died in the Koran course because he thinks it's a big deal not to put us on the governor's list of protocols. He has a second feature: the governor, the governor, and the governor of Mush, are continually transgressors. We bear witness to the ban the next night, dear friends, before the fifteen days of ban is over. What's all this? All these are the footsteps of a corrupt government, a corrupt system with no promise, dear friends. Look, we don't say women's poverty, child's poverty from where we sit. We started a campaign, we went through cities, we visited 18 cities, and you know what we saw? People are miserable; we go to the fields, we go to the greenhouses, we go to the stalls, we go to the stalls, we go to the houses, we go to the doors, and everybody says: "We work all day, we work all day, we get 10 lira at the end of the day -- maximum 30 lira -- and we consume that $10 before we go home because we can only buy bread with it. Isn't that touching you, dear friends? Aren't these your citizens, too? Isn't that important to you, too? I guess it doesn't matter, because if it did matter, you'd tell us how to employ women, how to protect children, how to build dorms for young people, and ultimately how to build this country, instead of a lot of talk, but you're telling us about the tank, the cannon, the gun, and the lack of future. What is it? Blue homeland, no space homeland. So, what about the motherland? Motherland, what happened to the country we lived on? What happened to Anatolia, Mesopotamia? Asia Minor and Mesopotamia are dying. Why? The drought. Why? There's no shortage, no poverty, no hunger, no production, no future, and now there's a moan, but unfortunately, it doesn't mean anything to you at all. Look, dear friends, it's Human Rights Week, and you've had a lot of pledges and a lot of fancy things said. So, really, what's on this country's human rights report card? I'll show you something, look, a lot of my friends showed me, there's a Garibe Gezer on the human rights report card. He was tortured, sexually abused in prison, tried to publicize it, yet he was kept in solitary confinement and lost his life, even though he had tried to commit suicide before. You know, where one says, "My injustice ends there." Right? It's not over, at the airport, when they went to pick up his funeral, the police there said, "Get out of here and go away." It wasn't enough, it had arrived at Mardin Airport, his funeral, no vehicle was given. Your trustee city... the hearse arrived, then the police sent him back. That is persecution, my dear friends. Not on a human rights report card. Look, if it isn't a familiar face, he was a friend of yours, and he was a member of parliament here at this time. He witnessed the greatest pain the earth has ever seen. He loved his mother so much, he lost his old mother in prison, but that pain was too much for you, wasn't it? We dug up his cemetery, his mother, her mother, where she was buried. I was there, and I was in the cemetery, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there, and I was there. Our Aysel friend was devastated, he wanted to erase all these inhumanities from his memory, and now he's having a health problem. Come on, Forensic Medicine, give up this ideological, hostile attitude and release Aysel, Mehmet Emin Ozkan, and the other sick prisoners, but who are we telling, dear friends, who are we telling? No one hears; no word, no word; the water has rotted, the salt has smelled, and we live in real shame when we live every day now; the shame of witnessing these things, the shame of living together. Behold, another picture: the house of Şenyasar, Emine Shenyashar, and her son, Ferit Shenyashar. You know what the D.A. said? I don't know what he said. Well, even your own congressman... what did he say, Mr. Fakibaba, what did he say? This is unacceptable. He said, "There has been a massacre in person." And why? Only because he said he wouldn't vote for your deputy or your party. Now, Emine, what human rights report card are you going to talk about without salvaging your mother's request for justice, without hearing her cry for justice? What humanity are we talking about? How are we going to live together? Three people from one house were murdered inside the hospital, and you're still silent. Yes, I invite you to a conscience, dear friends. There's so much to say, but unfortunately, time isn't enough. Look, dear friends, what did the Vice President just say? We too are Alevi, Sunni - what do I know? Then lift up your obligatory religion lessons, and let us see your sincerity; and deliver the Alewi chambers to the Aleki institutions, and let us see your sincerity.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0400par1096	Aren't Alevi Muslims? Are they not part of Islam, or will they not learn its religion?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0399par1097	When the houses of the Alevis are multiplied, when the Alevis are targeted, they cannot be governors, they cannot be governors. When they are called governors, draw a set in front of them, and let's see. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0401par1100	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0399par1101	Let's just say that the governor of Maraş forbids the Memorial of the Maraş massacre. Intimacy? Let's go together, let's make that memorial together. You can't talk about equality, justice, brotherhood, by putting it in our eyes, by telling us that slaughter is free and not to remember those who lost their lives in this country. Finally, the last, most innocent, mute of the chain of massacres, these are taken in Dersim, and the saints of the people of Dersim are slaughtered by the people of America. Why? For money. But as a matter of fact, you're against America, you're anti-empireist. I'm sorry, you love the ones with the money, the American with the money, and the Qatar with the money, but you're no good to the people.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0401par1104	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Fethi Açüel wants to speak on the matter. Here you are, Mr. Fethi.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0402par1107	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our citizens with my sincerest feelings. I have made a pledge on the (Denge) clause of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for the year 2022. Dear lawmakers, as we enter the 2nd century of our republic, we suffer at the same time five major crises, which are caused by the unstable, unsupervised, unsupervised, and incompetent administration of the one-man government system. In no other geography in the world, these crises don't happen at the same time. These crises are a state crisis, a democracy crisis, an external debt crisis, a diplomatic crisis and a crisis of values. These crises are a tragic consequence of the one-man government system, which has begun to subject Turkey to all kinds of yokes and addictions. Dear President, dear lawmakers, if you ask, how can a government take back two centuries of modernisation, a hundred and fifty years of Parliament, a century of republics, and pluralist political competitive culture for decades, and how can it reduce Turkey to 30 or 40 digits in all international indexes? How does a valued lawmakers empty a country's treasure, the central bank's reserves; how does a national plant privatize public resources; how does it destroy Turkey's ability? If you say, look at the 20-year-old AK PARTI government. If you ask the esteemed lawmakers, how does a government make Turkey's economic assets a cruel bargain, how does it allow new capitalizations, how does it place today's London loan sharks instead of past Galata bankers? (Applause from the ranks of CHP) If you ask me, how does a valued lawmakers leave a nation of power at the mercy of mob leaders who have infiltrated a state and have declared its rule? If you ask me, how does a government, like a leech, like an octopus, allow black money barons to become oligarical? Dear lawmakers, at the end of his 20 years of power, I say we look at this one-man government system that has made Turkey without state and bureaucracy, without law and injustice, without currency and without backup, without protection and without security. Dear lawmakers, I say look at this waste and surrender budget of the palace, which has made Turkish agriculture without farmers, soils without fertilizers and medicines, factories without high technology and technicians, and our economy without domestic and national industry. This budget is a fortune transfer budget for a handful of privileged palace oligarchies. This budget is the budget of pooring the public, disposing of the small manufacturer, because it is a budget that condemns 10 million minimum-payers of Turkey to an income of Columbia, millions of pensioners to the Philippines and over 10 million poor people in need of social assistance to Bangladesh. With this budget, the palace considers itself worthy of luxury and glory, while the people stop putting up with hunger, shrinking food portions, and even giving thanks in the line of bread. Dear lawmakers, this government budget is a non-existence budget that has made it impossible for our young people to establish family institutions as they have left them unemployed and desperate, in a position that has left four walls and four wheels in a state that cannot imagine for the rest of their lives. In this fetal budget, state bureaucracy and the staff regime have been paralyzed. Judiciary authorities are too weak to investigate corruption and bribery. Patriotic and honest public officials are either banished or silenced by the party networks. Our virtues of the country have been transformed into a free-pass zone for human, drug, gold, oil, and even food traffickers. Our national sovereignty has been suspended. Mr. President, despite the open decisions of our Constitutional Court and the ECHR, politicians, journalists and NGO representatives remain in prison illegally. Even in 2021, the mentality that sees social media and young people's cell phones as a threat to itself seeks to detain young journalists who do street interviews. The campuses of the NDO's ODTÜ have been transformed into open prisons. The safety of teachers and students has been abandoned at the mercy of armed, knifed groups, security guards and trustees who speed up brain migration from Turkey with unsatisfactory assignments. Dear lawmakers, this budget is therefore a budget of institutional collapse. It is the budget of those who have abandoned the state mind in Turkey who have repeatedly changed the heads of the respected institutions of the Turkish Republic's Central Bank and Turkey's Statistical Institution as if they had appointed the presidents of the past in a tribal state. The Turkish Air Agency is the budget of the mindset that keeps the planes waiting on the runways in Mumbai, while the country's lungs burn, for the sake of inept and blind stubbornness. This budget is the budget of those who think they can run our state with no institutions, no office, no rules, no regulations, no licenses, four-to-five special advisors, and an orchestrated nepotism. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the past 20 years, the esteemed lawmakers have pursued the ruling, Ihvanistic fantasies and have avoided centuries of Ataturcian foreign policy. Turkey is therefore alone in the world. Our national reputation has been damaged by our firms' trade capacity, embargos, boycotts and reprimands. Our foreign policy has become a Ferris wheel because of the passion diplomacy followed by the palace. One day, there was a lack of principle that brought forth Ihvanism, the Blue Marmara, and then the next day, that embraced Muhammad Bin Zayed, whom you declared to be a coup artist. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Precious lawmakers, in global and regional geopolitic competition, Russia's chess, the US's poker game, the Far East country's strategy game, and the European Union's unfortunate attempt to make a mockery of the suffering of refugees, led to more than 5 million Syrian, Afghan asylum seekers. Because of this unconscious open-door policy by the EC PARTY, some members of ISIS, Nusraci, Al-Qaedaci have been granted residence permits, even citizenship in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, this budget is a budget of destruction that causes their families to be desperate, to collapse state institutions, to decay political ethics, to dissolve social values, and to collapse the nation's assets. This is a budget for the collapse of our citizens in the first quarter of the 21st century, a budget for public opinion. Mr. President, in the 2nd century of the republic, we will prepare a budget worthy of the ideals of our great Leader, Ataturk, and our republic, a social democratic budget, along with all our citizens in the Veterans Assembly. We're going to launch a new movement of development based on scientific production, to free our country from addiction, oligarchy, to rebuild public institutions and staffs, to embrace our citizens by becoming lawful. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, that's why we're saying that they're leaving. (HPP clapping in rows) That's why we say, we repeat with the verses of the beautiful anthem of the Meteb-i Property, that you may laugh with joy, the sun, the earth, the sea. / O motherland, let your tears depart, for we have grown up. It is coming. I salute our High Council and our citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0403par1124	Ankara MP Hacı Turan has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1127	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Of course, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the third article. I have prepared my speech, but I will not be faithful to the text today. In particular, from December 6th to today, when we've listened to our opposition party MPs here for about nine days, they've tried a number of different methods, in a number of different figures, in a sense, as if the global pandemic hadn't happened in the world, as if it had only happened in Turkey. Dear friends, not only Turkey has been affected by this global epidemic, but all the countries in the world have been affected negatively on their own scale. Today, when you look at Germany, a march is held in Berlin in May. What's the reason? 84 percent of the residents of Berlin, with 3.5 million inhabitants, live in rent. Due to this global epidemic, there is an 86 per cent increase in rents, and much of the residents of Berlin are working for minimum wage, so the local province of Berlin is making a decision in Berlin: they are going to a referendum in September; about 56 per cent of them are being issued a decision by the state to nationalize some 240k of the Berlin dwellings. Yes, the process affected everyone. Especially when opposition parties talked about the budget, we noticed that the criticism began over the Kur. Some of Turkey's public-private sector debt is about 419 billion dollars; 164 billion of this is the debt of the private sector and the financial sector, especially when we look at Turkey's debt. These are not debts taken in return for a property; these are loans that banks use as union loans, so these are short, medium, long-term loans.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0405par1131	You have the real sector, the real sector; its 89 billion is your real sector!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1132	When we look at private sector debt, the private sector's debt today is about 125 billion dollars; 25-30 billion dollars is for big projects, and the others are especially for companies that trade in foreign currency, imports, exports. So you look at these debts, sir, and part of Turkey's annual debt is coming out; we've lost 2 trillion. We've lost 1.5 trillion friends yesterday. That's not how debt is calculated. The private sector has its price, the banks have its price. When we look at European countries, Germany today owes about $5.5 trillion, France owes $5 trillion, and England owes $8.5 trillion.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0405par1134	There's 60 grand per million per person, here's six grand, here's five thousand, six thousand dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1135	While such negative assessments of the debt are being made, dear friends, when we look at the money in the deposit, the cash exchange reserve at last week is now $248 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0405par1136	Where is it? Where is it? In Germany?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1137	You're looking at it in terms of dollars...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0405par1138	Germany, Germany...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1139	When we look at the debt in terms of dollars...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0405par1140	Don't fool people, don't fool people!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1141	When we look at the deposits, dear friends, there's a trillion dollars in dollars, 924 billion in deposits.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0405par1142	Don't fool people! Minus $36 billion reserve! Don't fool people!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1143	These are all the money of the residents of Turkey, the people living in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0406par1144	If you're counting people's money, figure out what they owe you!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1145	Residents abroad have about 43 billion euros in money in these banks.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0406par1146	If you can get people to calculate their deposits, you'll get people to do the math! If you can look at the citizen's dollars, you're gonna have to figure out how much he owes, and you're gonna add the farmer's.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1147	So when we look at the macro plan, there's nothing serious about the economy, but we don't know how much currency there is in deposit boxes and safe deposit boxes, we don't know how much money there is. Everyone rest assured that with interest falling -- hopefully with this decision our government has made -- we'll get it together as soon as possible.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0407par1148	If a dollar goes up, there's 450 billion foreign debt, 450 billion debt to the citizen!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1149	In the last two months, interest has dropped by four points.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0408par1150	The total deposit is 63 percent of the currency.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1151	Today, when we look at commercial loans, about 118 billion, the old money used 118 quadrillion commercial loans.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0408par1152	You're misinformation!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0404par1153	When we look at the market today, I can argue in any environment, you know the numbers.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0408par1155	Mr. Hajji, you're misinformation!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0409par1156	Yeah, the economic indicators! What policy?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0410par1157	Here, wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1158	When we look at it, its commercial use is 1 trillion 604 billion TL.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0412par1159	You're misinformation the public!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1160	Hopefully, with our government's decision, we'll get it together as soon as possible.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0412par1161	The total deposit is 63 per cent of the currency.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1162	Again, a friend of yours recently told me that Germany's per capita income is $55,000. That's right. At $355 billion more, friends in Germany, the minimum wage is between 1,200 and 1,300 euros.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0413par1163	How much is it here?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1164	Last week I called Germany.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0414par1165	Here's 200 euros. 200 euros here, 200 euros.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1166	About 900 euros for those who live in a 90 square metre house in Germany.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0414par1167	200 euros in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1168	Kitchen costs 600 euros; electricity and water costs are around 400 euros.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0414par1169	That's 4,500 euros that just finished college.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1170	So in Europe, in a family of four with two children, they both go hungry if they don't work in a house.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0414par1171	Why do these young people go to Germany? Why do doctors go to Germany?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1172	So it's not just Turkey, it's Germany, it's France, it's America, it's all affecting it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0414par1174	Why can't we keep our doctors, our young people?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1175	Yes, dear friends, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0414par1176	That's where they're going, Germany. They go to Germany, they go to Finland.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0411par1177	I wish our budget to be blessed.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0415par1179	Mr. Hajji, stick to the script from now on, it's not happening!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0416par1180	İstanbul MP Hayati Arkaz has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Arkad.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0417par1183	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I wish our country, our nation, and our government the best in the year 2022. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Saint Ataturk, say: "We Turks are a nation of freedom and sovereignty throughout our history." Since the great Turkish nation came through the gates of Ahlat, our ancestors have watered the geography with blood, not with ruler, but with blood. The genetics of the Turkish nation include humanity, courage, generosity and philanthropy. The Turkish nation is like a synth tree; it roars with its root, with its leaf and with its branch. Motherland love is like yeast; it doesn't keep milk in corrupts. They are the martyrs of the holy cause, which is the goal of the Turkish nation. The country's Turkish nationalists are men of faith, not traitors from the archipelago, not from the country's furnaces; and if they do, they will be brought to trial. Sterling is the immortal heroism of a lover from the Spirit Swordbreaker to Fırat Çakıroğlu. It's the nationalist movement. (Applause from MHP rows) The National Movement Party has been a guarantee of the undivisable integrity of the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation since 8 February 1969. As a nationalist movement, we have paid very heavy prices for this country, but we are neither angry with fate nor angry with the state because, as our Prime Minister Alparslan Turkeş said, it is the secret of invincibility to refuse to surrender no matter how dark it is. If Turkey were a socialist, Russia would land at sea and the Soviet Union would not fall apart. As a matter of fact, we've calculated everything, but we haven't been able to calculate civil resistance in the south. They said, "The resistance is the national movement led by Prime Minister Alparslan Türkesh. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. President, esteemed MPs, the character of the Turkish nation is mercy and justice. Our colors, our patterns, our emotions, our thoughts may be different, even our political views may be different, but the heart of the great Turkish nation is one and one. As the Leader State Gardener said, our name is one, our memory is one, our pain is one; we are a great family. From north to south, from east to west, we are one heart, one wrist; we are the great Turkish nation. (Applause from MHP rows) As the National Movement Party, we have never, ever allowed separatism, discrimination, ethnic nationalism, and nationality. The position of the National Movement Party is clear, its politics clear, its actions are clear, its words are true, and their goals are blessed. We've been fighting for what we promised the Turkish nation for half a century. The National Movement Party is a martyr in Kerkuk, Turkmen in Karabağ, Fatih in İstanbul, Sarıkamişta Enver in Turkey, Mustafa Kemal in Sakarya, Çanakkale in Çanakkale, a torch in Cyprus that will not be extinguished. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] MHP is unity, unity, love, compassion, tolerance, nation's furnace, the furnace of unity, brotherhood, friendship, solidarity. Strong MHP means strong Turkey. The Nationalist Movement Party is the great Turkish nation. As long as there is a great Turkish nation, the National Movement Party will also exist. [[(Bravo) The voices, applauding from the MHP rows]] There are attacks on the unity of the state, the unity of the nation, the integrity of the nation. We don't challenge the government from here, we don't allow anyone to stand up to the government, we don't let them, we don't let them, I say let them all get their heads right. Blessed is he who says he's a Turk! [[Give it up for MHP, AK PARTY and Good Party rows.]] I salute the General Assembly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0418par1199	Talks on Article 3 have been completed. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. Now, I'm going to read the 4th article: Decisions relating to Budget Order and Application MADDE 4- (1) The rules of this Law have been shown below: a) The distribution of grants given by article 1 [[A]] B) revenues to continue to collect according to legislation related to public administrations under central administration [[B]] C) Basic provisions based on the income of public administrations under central administration [[C]] ) Baseds on the use and expenditure of some funds [[E]] D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) estimates that the management and institutions, which are included in the ruler (III), will be used by the means of cash. [[F]] e) daily and compensation in accordance with Article 10/2/1954 and Article 6245 [[H]] f) According to various laws and presidential decrees, financial limits should be shown in the budget law [[I]] g) In addition classes, conferences and overwork fees and the sums of other fees [[K]] đ) Boarding fees from students of the school boards ruled by the Ministry of National Education, dated 11/8/ 1982 and under Article 3 of the National Education Ministry's Boarding Boarding Law 2698 [[M]] H) The purchase value of animals, dated 7/6/1939, and under the Law on National Self-defense No. 3634, will be taken through national self-defense. [[He']] I) Under Law 3634, the average purchase value of motor vehicles and rent costs per day are required through a multinational self-defense charge. [[P]] i) The type of transports available to public administrations in Tables (II) and (III) are available in the year's course of service, the type of vehicles available to them, and the price of purchases of vehicles that are subject to car 5/1/1961 and subsidiaries that are subject to Car Law 237 during the year. [[T]] j) Months of national service bound by laws and decisions [[V]] İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu on behalf of the Iİ Party Group demanding a statement on the matter. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0419par1235	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 4th Amendment on behalf of the Good Party Group. My greetings. In accordance with Article 15 of Law 5018, the central management budget law has to be included in the 4th article. Since it's a routine procedure, I'll make a general assessment. Before we begin our evaluation, I'd like to say that I expect an urgent solution to an important victim. Interns and apprentices want to be based on the date they started internship or apprentice as a start date in the SGK records concerning pension operations. Victims who say that internships abroad and some professions are more than a million years into retirement as well as a start-up, also agree to borrow for their internships so as not to be a burden on the central management budget. It's the need to be a social state to compensate for the right to be victimized. Dear lawmakers, each new budget should excite the nation because the new budget is expected to increase income, solve problems, cure problems, and facilitate life. I have to say, this budget is not a thrill, it's a pessimism. This budget is not the budget of the nation; it is the poverty budget of Ashliah and its supporters on corruption. There's interest payments in this budget, guarantee payments, nothing about people. I don't think the spear's gonna fit in the sack this time. We are facing a very different and multi-directional crisis, unlike the many crises our country has faced before. In recent years, they have ignored the words of Mr. Akşener, who we have repeatedly repeated as the MCC Party, which Mr. Akşener has often expressed at group meetings, about the production of the economic model. They sold our savings for 80 years with an economic model based on consumption. They spent irresponsiblely saying, "There is no compromise." And when they finally realized that they were getting close to the end, that they were about to hit the wall, they realized that the word "economic" was passed by the National Security Council Law. In order to hide their incompetence, it is understood that they want to use the National Security Council to give the impression of a change in policy and buy time. However, there are no institutions or experts left to implement a policy change. With his own understanding and limited knowledge, the power cannot see the truth that creates the problem, nor can it in any way provide a solution. Even though it is thought that dignity can be achieved in fancy palaces, in a luxurious way of life, the truth is not so. I'd like to ask you some questions to clarify confidence: 1) The International Financial Action Task Force, the International Council of Foreign Money Actions, has put Turkey on a gray list on the grounds that it has not done enough to fight money laundering and financing of terrorism. What happened when you were in power, and for the second time, we were on the gray list? What organizations or people are causing us to enter the gray list? 2) It is understood that the G20 countries with the largest economies in the world have given up its goal of ranking ten percent and that we will stay out of G20. At least what measures will you take to remain in G20? 3) After many years of announcing the start of full membership talks with the European Union, we have been severely reduced to the status of the European Union's southern neighbours, let alone complete the full accession process. Is the European Union responsible for this or the AKP's power? 4) The 21st century, where we entered with great hope, was a country that still had a very bad first quarter of the 21st century, where oil and natural gas were made up in a succession of stories of successes, and over and over again, local automobile factories were announced that they had been built, that our planes would adorn our heavens, and that we would soon even be able to go into space. You think people believe that? 5) The economic target in the 2023 country's programme for Turkey was $25,000 per capita; the per capita revenue was constantly dropped, with this budget approaching 6,000 dollars. Since there's no target left, don't you ever blush? 6) The $500 billion export target has been reduced to $226 billion. Thanks to the superior and successful work of our business people, our exporters have made the most positive development. What measures did you take that would not make production difficult, since the recent moves in the economy would make importing interim goods difficult? 7) The key institutions of the economy-related state have been either closed down or emptied, replaced, and rendered useless. The State Planning Agency has been shut down, the Central Bank and TİK have been controlled, the Public Contraction Agency has been used to corrupt, all the money-smelling organizations have been coveted. Is there no one among you who can tell me what's wrong? [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] 8) At every opportunity, comparisons are made as if no work had been done before the AKP. It's in the Stone Age, but does anyone know that we've come to this day because of the AKP, with the price of one gram of gold today, seven republic goldes in 2002, six times more gold in the world, 46 times higher in Turkey, and that the minimum wage should be 9,000 lira today? [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] 9) According to data on poverty and social exclusion risk rates compared to European countries, does the ruling lawmakers know that our country is ranked 1st in the presidential Annual Programme, published last month? 10) In order to hide your economic exhaustion, we have still opened the "Ayasophia" from this platform. You may not know that while Ayasofia was being converted strategically into a museum, we signed our second declaration of independence Montrö, but did you not find out that at least it was recorded by Ataturk as a deed to the deed? [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] 11) Different voices continue in the economy, if you agree with each other, should we know whether external forces are responsible for the crisis? 12) How can you avoid being in very tight relations and having just declared a brother in the blue country of Qatar, with the U.S. and the Greek Cypriot administration, building a gas-seeking company? 13) China, where you are in high-level friendship relations, has announced that Turkey is an invader in Syria and must be withdrawn. The same China continues to persecute nearly 30 million of our relatives in East Turkistan because they are Turks and Muslims. Hence, some countries have decided on a diplomatic boycott for the 2022 Winter Olympics. How can you still be quiet? Doesn't your conscience hurt at all? [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] 14) When will the Suleiman Shah Temple, which I believe will bring morale to the Turkish nation and give you dignity, be replaced by the original Turkish land? [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, Turkey is a big country, but it can't be ruled like a great country, there are contradictions in many matters. There's only one solution to getting rid of these contradictions: it's choice. (AS/TK) We, the GOOD Party, are ready to address expectations and solve problems. We know what to do and how to do it. First of all, we're going to get rid of the party presidential system, which means freaking one-man administration, and we're going to build a improved, reinforced parliamentary system based on the division of forces. We will not use the language of hate, threats and insults, we will follow an internal policy based on trust and peace. We will be at peace with our neighbors, our region and the world, following a personal foreign policy to protect our rights and interests. (AS/TK) We will restore economic balance and bring dignity to Turkish money.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0420par1261	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0419par1262	We'll have all our strategic products, all our resources underground and above ground, not to pursue our assets, not to attract them. (Applause from the Party and CHP) In this difficult geography, we will work hard to ensure that the Turkish nation will live forever free and happy. In unity and unity, we will maintain the founding values of the state of the Republic of Turkey. [[A round of applause from the Good Party and CHP]] I wish the year 2022 to be peaceful and hopeful, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0420par1266	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Sivas MP Ahmet Özyürek has asked to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Özyürek.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0421par1269	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 4 of the Central Management Budget Law of 2022. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the goal of the Presidential Alliance is to implement reforms, legal regulations, social and economic improvements needed to make the government system permanent and radical. The interests of the nation are the main axis, not the personal interests of the Cumhur Alliance. The energy and power source of the Cumhur Alliance is the national will. The national will is like a double-watered steel; it cannot be bent by old-fashioned and old-fashioned labels and deflection governments. The National Movement Party does what it has to do with Turkey's conditions, national security, national support, stability and democratic normalisation. The Cumhur Alliance stands in the right place in history, in the right time, in the right place. This stance will build and cherish the future. Valuable lawmakers carry out their main goals, including the central management budget of 2022, which is sustainable, sustainable, business-oriented, and revenue-distributive justice, establishing growth, maintaining fiscal discipline, improving public balances. To become a stronger country, Turkey's growth and development, democracy, human rights and the rule of law should be driven swiftly and economically and socially. As the National Movement Party, we assess that the reformist steps to this goal will strengthen Turkey's power by solving structural problems in Turkey's economy. The Economic Stabilisation Shield Programme was primarily put into practice to reduce the effects of the epidemic on the economy, to minimize its negative effects on our citizens. This includes significant support for our tradesmen, industrialists, farmers and employees. All segments of society have been protected by measures such as short work grants, layoff bans, credit delays, cash support. With facilitating financing conditions for businesses, support has continued to increase in many areas, including work and social life measures. During our visits to the tradesman in our Sivas, we have found that it is important to continue the support provided to our tradesmen by our government. To this end, you must be given loans, bonuses, and so on that would benefit your tradesman from employment. In this way, our Sivas will have new entrepreneurs in his economy, and it will also open the way for increasing our local potential. The drought in our Sivas has caused the victims of our farming citizens in our counties. Because of the climate, our province of Sivas is not suitable for the planting of each crop, it is harvested once a year. These are the main products of barley, wheat, rye, and bait. In order to address the losses caused by low efficiency in these products, further supports have been announced by our Ministry and are being transferred to accounts in early December. In addition, when our farmers ask for a registration and information document by the county and county agricultural managers, the document is paid for, so every time our farmers go to the county or county agricultural directorates, they pay a fee, which leads to a victimization, my friends. The removal of this fee will also benefit our farmers. Turkey has land, climate, knowledge, human resources that deserve to be a shining star in agricultural production and agricultural trade. If our Sivas is given the necessary support, it should not be ignored that our country has the potential to contribute to agricultural production. With a new vision and structural changes in agricultural production and agricultural trade, he will be able to do so. On the other hand, in our Sivas, we need to improve the conditions of our livestock - engaged citizens. In this framework, reducing the cost of baiting and resolving the crude bait deficit is of great importance. Animal support, animal rehabilitation, quality food and plant production must be increased. In order for our Sivas to continue to grow, grow, and become a city that employs its citizens, its evolutionary capacity must be strengthened. Any effort to create jobs, investments, investments, production, exports, revenues should be supported by a business, investment and initiative-oriented approach. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we expect the high-speed train line connecting our Sivas to the capital to be completed and open for transport as our Sivasian citizens. It is also important that our consultation with our private public bus operators in our Sivas is important for workers to benefit from the increased income support of their transportation to 65-year-old and disabled passengers. Another important thing I would like to point out is that local television channels broadcasting via satellites have been affected by recent fluctuations in exchange rates that are incompatible with the fundamental and economic facts. In the name of the continuity of the sector, Turkish-SAT satellite frequency rents must be determined at a fixed price on Turkish lira. In this industry, where thousands of people across the country eat bread, when considering the impacts of employment on the rise of costs, Sivas says that we support the work of our local television channels in both our cities and other provinces in order for them to get better, we believe that our government, which has our people from all sides, with its support for every sector, will also take precautions. Of course, agriculture and animalism must be developed in order to improve our Sivas. We want to play an important role in the industry, as well as in agriculture and animalism, in order to become a productive Turkey or to become Sivas. Whatever Covid process affects the world has affected our country. Because of our economic influence, I say that Covid's illness has affected the entire world economically, and our country has been affected by it. If that's why we're having such an economic crisis, then we want our Sivas to benefit from our Sivas, our Sivas, from the special incentives in the organised industrial region, and the Demirag Organised Industrial Zone, and exactly our Sivas. Because all we can produce there, or investors from the outside, from the inside, want is that Sivas may be difficult to access logistically, but what will encourage us to Sivas?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0422par1281	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0421par1282	The special incentive is that the 6th region is given to Sivas in full. When that happens, investors inside and out want to come to Sivas. That's why Mr. Varank and I met with our Minister of Industry, who said he was ready. I say, Mr. President, give Sivas the 6th district and special incentives, sign the decree. At least this will be good news for Sivas' nephews before New Year's. I say we all take care of our Sivas, who are working, producing, and caring for his national values. For listening to me, I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0422par1285	Peoples' Democratic Party seeking to speak on Article Mardin MP Pero Dundar for his group. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0423par1289	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on Article 4 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I hereby salute the people who watch us on the screen, our friends in prison. So far, 17 ministry budgets have been discussed. During these talks, we've explained that this budget does not have a public budget everywhere we are, and we'll continue to explain. Our group also talked about a lot of issues during this period, and since it mentions a lot, I won't go into a lot of details, but I especially want to stress a few things about the ministers' presentation, especially some questions about the province of Mardin, which I am its deputy; it's not the questions we don't say or ask, but I want to say again. The Justice Minister of this country has painted a picture that your mind stops dreaming, as if there are no rights violations in prisons every day, as if they had left no sense of justice in the country, as if an 84-year-old patient Mehmet Emin Gezer. Even when they were going to the hospital, the mother of Garibe Gezer, who had lost her life in prison, had not been subjected to justice, as if they hadn't listened to the voice of Emine Senyaşar, who had been seeking justice for two hundred and eighty days. I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice: Why didn't Garib Gezer hear the voice of the man who was subjected to systematic torture? Why were prison personnel not punished for all kinds of torture, including sexual violence? Why was there no electricity when the poor man was dragged to his death, and why was the emergency button disabled? And finally, I'd like to ask him, what is the reason for Garibeh's loss of life other than the hatred of Kurds and women? Garibe is the child of only one of the families who are the target of hostile policies against Kurdish women. This violence isn't the first time we've seen it, but we're gonna keep fighting for it to end. Again, another Minister of Environment and Urbanism. Thanks to him, when he presented, he spoke of everything but his own space. I'll tell you one thing he didn't say: he never mentioned the corruption and irregularity of the TOKİESTI, which was built in Nusaybin. They stole so much stuff that if the wind blows, a piece of the buildings will fall off. Since he owed his hosts as much as the world, he never mentioned it. There's the Home Secretary, he's already in the hands of God. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) During this period, people were thrown out of helicopters, and this was defended by the Minister. The children were trapped under armored vehicles. As violence and slaughter on the woman deepened, the killers were released with the Execution Act. So, what's 13 bullets when you're 12? Who is the murderer of Uður Kaymaz, who was murdered with his father? When he said that peace had come to the region, the arrested brother of Garibe Gezer was prevented from attending his brother's funeral on the grounds of security. Lawmakers were appointed trustees to municipalities elected by the people's will. He was given billions of pounds of gifts by the trustees. The trustees' corruption and irregularities, particularly Mardin trustee Mustafa Yaman, were allowed to be co-operated. Not enough, Mustafa Yaman was awarded a promotion. Look, just a few days ago, Mardin trustees were put on sale for $50 million worth of real estate purchases from the treasury. All kinds of corruption continue in the municipalities. I thought we had security. Well, 15 days a month brings curfews and action-impression bans. Who are these bans to? Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) is for the opposition and for the NGOs. Let's also say that persecution and corruption are not limited to the municipalities of Mardin and the municipalities in which they appoint trustees, and that is the same persecution in the municipalities of their own administration. From the green, Dargeit, from Artuklu to Midyat, Omerli, the people of Mardin, there is not a single service, the streets are covered in mud, and endless roads are being built. Almost every road, wherever you look, has been auctioned over and over again. We know that they will not stop until they have dried up the people's resources, but let them know that we will take them one by one, and none of you will have any doubt about it. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, guys, there's another DEDA tyranny that doesn't act independently from the Ministry of Interior, and we've said it on the street and on the street and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on They're organized, how's that? The law enforcement force in Mardin is like DEDAŞ's law enforcement force. Is the public rioting because they can't pay the electric bill? The police, the Carabinieri, are barricaded in that neighborhood at the time of the police. The farmer couldn't pay his bill? It's all right, the Carabinieri are right at the farmer's door. Look, what does the 240 million-borrowed farmer say? I have 75 acres, how can I repay that debt? My house has been foreclosed. What is this, not hostility to the Mardinn farmer? The Ministry has no concern for public safety. The bills to the public's house are prepped without reading the meter. Not only the debtor, but the debtor's power is cut for no reason, and the plague is on the power's neck. We really want to ask who's up to it. Another farmer from Mardin says: "The price of 1 ton of fertilizer is the same as the price of 1 acre of farms in Kızıltepe. The corn harvest is finished in Mardin; the farmer began importing corn as he was about to finish the harvest. What is it, not cruelty, to approve corn imports before the farmer's harvest is finished? I'll tell you. The goal of all of these policies is to tear the people of the region out of their land, out of their habitat, impose mandatory migration, forcing them to go elsewhere to work unsecured as seasonal agricultural workers, setting up a basis for racial attacks wherever they go. As HDP, we called it work, food gathering, we called it justice for everyone, we said no to women's poverty; we went from house to house, neighborhood to village; we met with merchants, farmers, producers. We've heard the riot of women, young people, workers, workers, and there's a common phrase that comes out of all this, which is corruption, poverty, and we can't get along. Here's what a seasonal agricultural worker in Mardin said. In our budget process, in all the cities, in the neighborhoods, in all the talks, in all the places, in the meetings, I wanted to say here that the power of the people's existence has dropped 10 times, 100 times, and only they and their comrades are flying back. The small tradesmen are dying all over the country, especially Mardin. Almost every day in Mardin, a tradesman comes to the closing stage. This is the poverty you don't want to see, the poverty you don't want to hear, the poverty you impose on the people of Mardin; there's a lack, there's no more. So, what does this power do? He's acting like everything's a rose. Guluk is a company of supporters, and one of them, of course, is Genghis Holdings, who caused a lot of damage both material and spiritual in Mardin. I would like to ask the relevant ministry: In particular, what extent are cancers and asthma diseases increased in Derik and Mazidaki? How does this relate to the pollution created by Genghis Holding's factory? We've brought all of these problems to Parliament's agenda with repeated motions as the HDP Group. Most of our motions weren't even answered. The answers that came months later have nothing to do with satisfaction. I wish you'd shown me the speed you've shown us in your euphemisms when you've been answering our motions. [[Applause from HDP rows]] There's nothing the government, not the people, but the allies, can do but deepen crisis and chaos. What is the solution to this power when the people are struggling with hunger and poverty? The solution is to replace the Treasury and Finance Minister, the solution is to replace the President of the Central Bank! So, is there a solution? The state of the people, the state of the Turkish lira. Dear friends, the cause of this crisis is war politics under the name "security policies" -- anti-Kurdish, women, nature, different languages, identity policies. Now, this budget is a budget based on this enemy law; it's a budget for people who try to sustain their power by feeding on war; it's a budget for democracy, justice, freedom, pressure, persecution, injustice. In the name of the people, the workers, the workers, the farmers, the young have nothing to do with this budget because it is the budget of those who want to discipline society with fear, oppression, hunger. Our people don't approve of this budget, so we say no to this budget. I salute all our people who follow us.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0424par1304	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group who want to speak on the matter, Bursa MP Lale Karabık.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0425par1305	Mr. President, there are two crises in Turkey; there are crises in the economy and there are crises created by the one-man regime. Yes, there's a pandemic crisis, there's an epidemic in the world, which deepens our crises, but the main issue is the management crisis created by both the economy and the single man's regime in Turkey. Let's state that. You ignore this crisis, with perception management, you try to make everything look good, and you keep making it look good to the citizen. Dear lawmakers, there is no institutional collapse in the state; there is no neutral state institution left; if you call it politics and career, it's over; there's no vision of the medium-term program, unfortunately, no more than wishes, and the creditability is down, and all the targets have to be revised by false policies, and you've already reduced your 2023 goals to half. The medium-term program is so far away from reality, what it says, and let's pay attention to the sentence: the growth structure based on domestic savings and direct investments in terms of domestic savings, domestic savings and direct investments -- the efficient investments that are funded from domestic savings and direct investments. Which foreign direct investor, I ask you? Does Turkey come directly to investors because it has no confidence? They're hit-and-runs. Remember that the CDS (CNS) that showed Turkey's risk has already exceeded 500. Your President-General once said that money represents the power, reputation, independence of a country, just like the flag, just like the national anthem. Where did you get the Turkish lira? You threw it in front of the dollar and gave it a stamp. So, look, there's been a lot of wooing going on. Our already heavy debt load has increased with low Turkish lira, and in the process, our external debt load has increased by 2.2 trillion in just a few months; it's come out of the pocket of this citizen, thanks to you, up 2.2 trillion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, let's look at the debts of the central administration. I'm talking to numbers, I'm talking to your data, anyone can look at it. 60 per cent of the central administration's total debt is in exchange for foreign currency, 20 per cent is in fixed interest, 20 per cent is in variable interest. Therefore, the debts in interest and exchanges are both 80 per cent sensitive to interest and the increase in foreign currency. So they both increased. So, we understand that you made an interest drop, what did it do, what did it do? The central administration's debts increased interest and increased debt burdens again as the currency increased. Why?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0426par1310	They're screwed.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0425par1311	In three months, a total of four points of interest has been reduced, all right, but it's done with the right policies, built on the right methods and trust. So, you gave me a four-point discount, what happened? The Bank's debt interest has increased by five points. I mean, you're supposed to have a discount on interest, but the Central Bank is now paying five points more when it borrows money from banks that it's now funded. What do we know about that? You're trying to destroy the Central Bank with a hand-me-down. So, what else happened? When you changed the rules in the game, you said you didn't have to work for your ancestors, your grandparents, you returned debts. So, within a few months, for $34 billion, you have reduced the value of that Entity Fund, and melted it down, making the bones of our ancestors and grandfathers broken. Well, what about when the pitch went up and the exports went up? Look, if the basket had kept up with the courtship increase, export would have been $450 billion in exports, not $216 billion in October, for God's sake, let's not fool ourselves. Besides, at what cost will you reproduce in our country with such a high import rate of input? But unfortunately, you live today, and you don't think about the rest. Now, let's look at some data; let's look at your data again, your data from your time, the last eight years. Look, in eight years, the basket court has increased 254 percent, but the increase in exports is only 33 percent, so the increase in exports is 0.13 in exchange for the 1 unit increase in the basket. And as it does not increase low-treasure exports, Turkey's added value also transfers and leaves at a cheap price. On the other hand, you've made families poor. According to the report of the World Misfortune Index, he ranked 21st in 156 countries and first in Europe. During the Justice and Development Party, poverty affected most women and children. Children feel poverty deeply. They had to grow up early, they had to work, they didn't know how to play, they didn't have a childhood. I'm not saying, TİKIK: The number of children working in a group of 5-17 years old says 1 million; this is your report card. According to the Ankara Labour Health and Occupational Security Assembly, at least 70 children are killed every year. And it's very important: in 2012, the number of children whose parents were unemployed was 1,210,000, and today, 1,840 thousand, the children's fathers were unemployed. Let's get back to your struggle against unemployment: you've been in power for 19 years -- since 2002 -- you've done the employment package in 2004, and you've done the last package on 12 March 2021, and there's also an additional employment package for the SMEs, so there's 17 employment incentives in 19 years, 7 economic package; mashallah, 24 packages, but I don't want to tell you about unemployment.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0427par1320	It's empty.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0425par1321	It's empty. Also, as you claim with one man's regime, you have not been able to build a fast-resolved mechanism for problems. More than their merits, bureaucrats, who have been appointed to the extent of their loyalty, are often unable to address your problems, your problems, the problems of the entire country, trying to be led by dismissals and mission changes, I'm afraid. There's a lost Justice and Development Party in the fission. It's not based on you, it's not based on the Minister of Finance, it's not based on the President of the Central Bank, it's been the President of the Central Bank in three years, it's been the Minister of Finance, it's been only 28 months. The system has driven the President and his party into a vortex that deepens, unlike the one that cannot manage the crises, the precious MPs, and as a result of this vortex, you're leaving.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0428par1324	Where are we going?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0425par1325	You know, when you have this perception management, if I lose, you lose. If I'm not there, there's crisis. If I'm not there, there's chaos. You said that, since you've managed perception, no one believes that anymore. It's this country that's going to win when you're gone; it's going to come, it's going to come, it's going to be democracy, it's going to be jobs, because there's going to be development, there's going to be production, and the share of development is going to go into the pocket of the poor and the pensioner. Young people who will be free, you know, your palace, your palace, your palace, we can't rest. There will be those young people you try to silence when you're trying to make them speak, when you don't put them in Ankara. Don't worry, boys, it's coming, all the trouble will be over. Don't worry, the employees, the unemployed, the pensioners, the workers, the unemployed teachers, the teachers who didn't get their class, the teachers who didn't get their class. Don't worry, the poor in Turkey are coming, and all your problems are coming to an end. Women, young people, children, don't worry, all your problems are coming to an end. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0429par1328	Scholar Emine Yavuz Kökler who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0430par1331	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, I am congratulating Sezai Karakoch, the poet of the resurrection. Our story is a resurrection story. As our President stated, the resurrection of Ayasofya is the story of the rise of our sun, which is the basis of justice, conscience, morality, regret, and brotherhood. Neither the 367 crisis nor the date of April 27th, nor the Gezi events of December 17th or 25th, nor the attempted treasonous coup attempt on July 15th will ever be able to turn this nation away from its determination to take control of its own will. Thankfully, my Lord has granted the 20th budget today. This budget is a budget that embraces all parts of society and aims for the welfare of our nation; if there is faith, there is opportunity. With faith, there is trust, blessing, faith. THE most important mission of the EC PARTY from the foundation to today was to ensure the state-national integration. As we have solved the problems of the past with the state-national union, we have also achieved reformal developments. We, in particular, have removed the obstacles from politics to economics, especially to the fact that women who make up half the population always exist in every aspect of life. That's how I can serve in the Gazi Parliament today, without being discriminated against, as Minister Mehmet. In the village of Ismetiye. (AK PARTY) That's how Batman Sason's Lale Basut can start an inverted migration with the support of the Crunchy Strawberry Project. Mrs. Aylin, a farmer from Karacabey Dağkadı, puts value on the economy by building co-operatives with the support of local governments, the Ministry of Agriculture. Mrs. Elif of Bursa, with the support of KOSGEB, builds and builds tools from commercial vehicle to boat. Women write new success stories every day. We work hard to get women to follow their dreams, but unfortunately, those who can't say "A terrorist organization" to the young teacher Aybuke, who forced their 13-14-year-old daughter into the mountains in the spring of her life, can talk recklessly about women's rights, women's freedoms, who can't listen to the cries of their mothers in Diyarbakir. Fortunately, our nation clearly sees this insincereness, those who support terrorism, those who speak for terrorist organizations. Once upon a time, the healing of our nation is a futile attempt to comfort people, let alone be lawful, my brother. I also see that those who say, "Let's be lawful today," but I want to ask you: "Who are we to ask for righteousness?" If you vote for the AK PARTY, do you ask the farmers who have the right to put up a mortgage on you?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0431par1335	Bravo.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0430par1336	I don't call a teacher who supports power. Are you asking the teachers to give you the blessing? You're asking the officers you threatened? You're asking the young people whose morale you've broken, motivations you've ruined in the excitement of taking a huge lie and taking the college exam? If a man is unemployed, if not enough money comes to the house, then a man must go to his wife. Are you asking for the legality of women who are abused by your words that justify violence? In order to end the tyranny of the headscarf, the Parliament's decision was raised to 400 hands of chaos. With its headlines, you ask the young women, the women you insult, who you have wasted their lives on in school, in business. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) By saying no to the counter, you're asking Mehmetchik to give his life for the integrity of this country? Everyone is as wise as literature, as honorable as his mind, as precious as his honor. Do you wish to be lawful under the roof of the Veteran Assembly for lewd words and actions? (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I'm going on a road trip to rehabilitation. It seems that, given the past, there's no turning back. We rely on the wisdom of our nation, and the people rely on our sincerity. He trusts Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the head of the Republic, who loves his people. We know that a fairer world is possible, and we know again that you lie and keep telling, that politics is doomed to be defeated over and over again.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0432par1338	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0430par1339	With our nation together, men and women, we will build Turkey together.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0433par1341	Mr. President, who is he to speak of women's rights?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0430par1343	I said PKK, not you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0433par1344	Who's your target here? Reckless...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0434par1346	Mr. President, let's continue.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0435par1347	Anyone who wants to speak for themselves on the matter...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0433par1349	Stand up for yourself; be honest, be honest!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0436par1350	I'm honest.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0433par1351	Look, tell me who you mean.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0437par1352	Yeah, go do something to your band!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0438par1353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0433par1354	Tell us, and we'll answer.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0439par1355	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0440par1356	The Ankara MP who asked for a personal word on the matter...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0441par1357	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0440par1358	Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0442par1359	Is he going to answer to you, deputy to our group?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0443par1360	Of course you'll answer.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0442par1361	How can he, you're talking...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0443par1362	You will. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0444par1365	Then let them give you the text...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0445par1366	Why don't you give him the script so he can speak up?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0446par1367	Mr. President, it's been a long time, but let me tell you something: a speech that a certain propaganda device produces, uploaded, watched one channel, read one newspaper, and re-enacted the lies that were produced there that would walk through a restitution restoration and try to load the world on our backs. Let me tell you something sincere, and I'll look you all in the eye, if you look at it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0447par1369	Is there a lie or a lie?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0446par1370	Do I live here? Am I the vice president of the group, acting vice president? On February 28, you can't just empty out the lab and enter the lab because they took out my schoolmate in the headdressing school of Ege University Pharmaceuticals. I'm the one who said, "The letter the lady wrote is an honor card for me the day I became a congressman."
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0448par1373	That's a lot to say, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0446par1374	Mr. President, excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0448par1375	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0446par1376	On the day of the April 27th announcement of the Economist's Chamber of Medicine, the meeting at that time at Çanakkale, in the Kaz Mountains, they go in and out of the hall. When they say, "This is the great evil done to Turkey. This is the last paragraph of the joint declaration of the pharmacy rooms we will publish tomorrow." Today, one of the people who wrote and put that luggage on our backs is sitting here trying to isolate the official leadership of the Republican People's Party, and that's not the case, Kemal Kildaroğlu... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0448par1379	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0446par1380	He sits down, standing behind every word he says, with great honor and pride, acting as his proxy; we are not the devil that you show; go with your devil, where you will be lawful, where you will be dealt with, and where you will be dealt with.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0448par1382	Guys, I'm gonna say something right now. Wait a minute, can't our 12 o'clock congressman come up with any logic other than teasing? So what's this?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0449par1384	Kemal Kilicdaroglu has declared...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0448par1385	Mr. Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1386	Mr. President, thank you. The ancients have a saying, saying, "Let your friend and your enemy be righteous." Whatever you say, you stand behind it, and I'll tell you this once and for all. At this time of night -- I absolutely agree with your word -- at the end of a day so tired, when everyone's waiting to go home, they come and they attack each other in a text written like this...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0451par1389	Why are you so uncomfortable?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1390	...and then who did you say it to? When I say it, it's the least I can do to not stand by it.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0452par1391	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1392	Mr. President, I'm so sorry. I have to take it in two minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0452par1394	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1395	Yes, you will answer to the people, and you will answer to them.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0453par1396	Don't shake your finger.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1397	You will also answer to the people, and you will answer before the judgment.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0453par1399	You're being rude. Don't threaten us.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0454par1400	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1401	I know how many days we've been doing budget negotiations, Mr. President, and I know how many times you've been running them, and that kind of thing, it can't really be that kind of cheeky.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0453par1402	Don't threaten me. Don't threaten me. We condemn the language of threat.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1403	Indeed, here he paints a pink table and collects leftover food crumbs from the citizen's rations, which exceeds $14.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0455par1404	And why do you allow these statements, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1405	Like I said, people don't think you're gonna show up just because of the economic crisis, so they're just sitting here trying to make themselves comfortable in their seats.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0456par1407	We don't accept threat language.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0450par1408	Yeah, shame on you! I'm telling you, shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0457par1410	That's a shame, really. Your insults are timeless. He doesn't know a place.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0458par1411	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0459par1412	Mr. President, dear friends, I don't think it's right to speak this way at this time of night, but we're not the kind of people who shake their fingers and fear the threat. We find this finger-waving, this threat very strange and amusing. AK PARTY is people's will, you can't adjust with a finger, I always say. Other than that, everything's been said all morning. One orator, our deputy, has found a few phrases in a very naive tone, and you've said a lot of things.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0460par1413	Naive?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0459par1415	I'm ashamed to repeat myself.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0461par1416	Well...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0459par1417	At this hour, a lady...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0461par1418	Okay. On matter...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0459par1420	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for a moment, I wanted to say something about teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0461par1421	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0459par1422	And, Mr. President, congratulations to Mr. Free. He claimed the headscarfs at the faculty, and he's all right.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0462par1423	Way to go!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0459par1424	In his own words, however, he went to the Supreme Court to cancel the law on the headscarf of the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0463par1426	Yeah, well, look what it's got to do with...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0464par1427	411 is the hand of chaos.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0463par1428	Who untied the headscarf, but who?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0465par1429	Who figured it out? We figured it out.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0464par1430	We figured it out.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0466par1431	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0467par1432	Likewise, congratulations to Free Bey. He defied April 27th, but he belonged to the party on April 27th, and the general president, who was his deputy, was very excited to sign the gold. Everyone knows that he said, "I will sign the gold."
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0468par1433	There's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0467par1434	So we expect Free Bey to set an example for his entire party, for his leader. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0469par1437	Okay. Anyone who wants to speak for themselves on the matter...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0470par1439	Mr. President, one sentence...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0469par1440	Yeah, let's not keep this up, guys. I'm just gonna hang up.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0470par1441	Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0469par1442	Yeah, all the lawmakers are against my administration right now. What are we gonna do with you guys?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0470par1445	I don't have it, I don't have it, I don't have it, I don't have it. Is there?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0469par1446	Mr. Free, I'll turn on your microphone. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0471par1448	Let your attitude be an example. As he said, there is no bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0472par1449	Mr. Free, what did I say?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0473par1450	I don't have one MP who says, "The Deputy President of the Group is defending the rights of the party."
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0474par1451	Neither do we. Is there?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0473par1452	They're all behind your pack like lions. (Applause from CHP and HDP rows).
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0475par1453	In the name of the person on the matter...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0473par1454	Whoever's got it, take it. I'll tell you this, Mr. President, I'm not leaving this without a report. Look, I'm very clear that Kemal Kilicdaroglu talked about the legalization of the party, and as his deputy, as the Party's Deputy Director, I said that if he created a demon and made it an exorcism and said that he would not be lawful with it, whether he was lawful with it or not, we are not the devil.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0476par1457	The devil of what? Where did the devil come from?
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0473par1458	There's no bread for you here.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0477par1460	You stole it yourself, you played it yourself. Did you settle with Deniz Baykal? OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) The Presidential Budget for Central Management in 2022 2) Central Management Final Account for the presidency 2020 1) President of the National Intelligence Agency 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The National Intelligence Agency Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2022 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board Secretary General 2020 Central Management Final Account C) THE PRESIDENT OF DANIEL WORK [[Continue]] 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 of the President of Religious Affairs 1) President of State Archives 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The State Archives Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Central Management Budget of 2022 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 1) Strategy and Budget President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Strategy and Budget President 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Communication President 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Communication Chairman's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF THE SURVIVATION [[Continue]] 1) Defence Industry Chairman 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The Defense Industry Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2020
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0478par1496	Asked on behalf of its person, Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0479par1499	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you my regards. It's a bit unfortunate to be the last speaker this time of night. However, the statement of the AK PARTY MP about the deposit accounts in the banks, speaking just before we got to the point, has caused serious confusion. On top of that, we don't know about the deposits, the cash in the safes, or the exchanges in the vaults. Now that the Minister of Finance is here, I don't know how the Minister of Finance can fix this. Well, recent statements by the Finance Minister have led to more confusion, more irregularities. (CHP cheers) I'd like to point out that, too. Dear MPs, the Vice President has just come out here, talked for 80 minutes, listened carefully, and once again I am so convinced why Fuat Oktay was made Vice President. He really deserved to be Erdogan's assistant, but he never deserved to be the vice president of this country. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Look, my dear friends, why do you bother with the word'saray'? It's only natural to call it a palace. Buckingham Palace has 700 rooms and only one-50th of the area of the palace here. Come on, there are only 132 rooms in the White House in the United States and 60 times the majority of the White House, in the area where you're uncomfortable with the expression "the palace here." Now, you can call the church, but there are very basic reasons for saying, "Don't mind if someone says "saray." The second issue is that the palace was bombed on July 15th, Mr. Fuat Oktay. Yeah, it's a mind-blowing thing to say it's a public council. Mr. Oktay, there's only one chosen person there, Erdogan, but all of the MPs sitting here have been elected by the people's votes, and they've come here and the real nation's Assembly is here, it's here, it's here, it's not the palace. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Now, let's get down to something else. Our friends are dating objects to make their conversation more effective, to draw attention to themselves. Now, it's very interesting to criticize our friend who dates oranges, to be uncomfortable with him. Dear friends, look, my strawberry farmer, who produces oranges, onions, peppers, he pours them in sacks, why don't you bother? He pours it on the floor in sacks. (CHP clapping in rows) What you should be uncomfortable with is you making the farmer look like this. Today, bank managers have hundreds, thousands of farm brothers' employment files in their vaults, so don't worry about it, don't worry about it. Another thing is, he's talking about the defense industry now, well, whatever's done, we're proud of this country. Well, tell me about the industry, Mr. Oktay. Have you been able to open one major industrial facility and employ hundreds of young people? No.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0480par1509	I give up, I give up!
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0479par1510	Now, I'll tell you something else, my dear friends: there is a President of Communications. In this budget, in this imaginary budget, the budget has grown by 60 percent to the highest budget of the presidential communications presidency. This is the budget of the communications president, which is the least affected by foreign currency activity. Why would the President of Communications' budget go up? Is he the President of Investments or is he building something? No. Yes, he's producing something, where he sees the work of Hitler's Germany, Goebbels, and confront him. (CHEERING) So, what's he doing? Why did the budget go up? The more lies, the more budgets; for him, the more budget for the communications presidency has been raised.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0481par1511	You're the one who's lying, you know.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0479par1512	And today, he controls the accounts of the trolls, interfering with the headlines of the supporting newspapers. For him, the budget of the communications president is increasing. The president of propaganda is implementing Goebbels' tactic, and for him, the President of Communications is now the president of the Republic, the president of the Republic, the president of the United States, the president of the Republic, the president of the United States, the president of the United States.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0482par1514	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0479par1515	Let's get to something else. Tomorrow, hopefully, the Deputy Director of the Group will take this speech and give it to Fuat Oktay. Fuat Oktay walked out here and talked about this. What did he say? Sir, out of respect, from the level... now, I'm going to read you something. I came across an event that I was very happy about on June 30th; the presidency for the first time realized it, published a savings general; so I asked a question, and I said, "What is the number of vehicles registered to the 2020 inventory of the presidency?" What is the number of vehicles registered to the 2021 inventory of the presidency? What is the number of vehicles rented by the presidency in 2021? Clear, understandable, very simple questions. Now look at the answer, now the respect of the Vice President. The answer is, he says... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, Mr. President, I'm the last speaker.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0482par1518	But I haven't given anyone an extension, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0479par1520	I'm the last speaker, please...
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0482par1521	I assure you, I haven't given anyone an extension.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0479par1522	I'm the last speaker, it's important.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0483par1523	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0479par1524	Look at the answer given by the Vice President: Presidential services are being carried out by the number of tools required by respecting austerity principles in accordance with deposit provisions. Look, respect, disrespect is being done to you, not to you, not to me. King Fuat Oktay of disrespect. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-12-14sit02spe0484par1527	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Talks on Article 4 have been completed. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 15th 2021) to discuss the 5th and 13th articles of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2022. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
