tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Karaman MP Mr. Selman Oğuzhan Eser, former chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, veteran of the War of Istliklamic War, who asked for the anniversary of Karabekir's death. Here you are, Mr. Arter.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0002par0006	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise on his life, which guides us in the 73rd year of the death of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey President Kazim Karabekir Pasha. I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation. One of the memorable heroes of the national war years, Kazim Karabekir Pasha, is that everything we have to say today about our unspoken ideas and life will be nothing more than an effort to express our gratitude to him. He, on the other hand, has been the father of orphans, with countless victories in his sixty-six years of unexplainable life, with thousands of children named after him as the hero of Alcçupe and the conqueror of Shark. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's an unread epic, Kazim Karabekir. He is the secret hero of our struggle for greatness, not of the life he has spent on his country and nation, but of the heart of faith that will sustain a thousand generations. With his success in teaching life, he is a commander who has set an example for our students, 12 years of political life, 12 years of self-indulgence in poetry, writing, our history, and twenty-one years of military heroism. He was Muhammad enough to take every orphan from the front for every inch of the land, to the front for every inch of the land, to the front for every inch of its land, to be heroic, stern, agile, formidable, but with the faith and conscience in his chest, to possess every orphan without discrimination, religion, race. He was a great intellectual who thought that the only way to survive in this land would be with knowledge and opened countless schools with that thought. Orphans who have trained thousands of students in their schools, professionally and technically, with social activities, theatre, music education, sports clubs, and Turkish children who have been orphaned by all orphaned and orphaned children without Armenian distinction, have sent their own language to Tripoli to grow up in their Christian orphanages knowingly. The loyal Armenian orphans who grew up around here immortalized their love and conversation with Kazim Karabekir Pasha by drawing and giving him a picture of his pen. On top of the painting is the father of the orphans, hero Kazim Karabekir Pasha It is written on 9 September 1338. The note the Armenian orphans wrote on the table also sheds light on our history. On that day, reminding that the state of the Republic of Turkey, which is the primary and permanent guardian of the orphaned Armenian children, continues to protect the lives and possessions of all Armenian citizens today, with the same sentiment, I would like to present to one of our Armenian MPs this beautiful portrait of loyalty done by Armenian orphans. On this occasion, I honor our last year's MP, Markan Esayan, and all Armenian brothers who became members of nationalism. Dear MPs, of course, we have much to learn from the immortal heroes of the struggle for sovereignty. But there are two men who have written his name in history, who have fought shoulder to shoulder, two commanders, two great clans, and one country; two great hearts that have struck for the country; and two heroes who say, "The rest of the country is teferrat!"; both Karamanites, the sons of Karaman, the sons of Karaman. This is Mustafa Kemal Pasha and Kazim Karabekir Pasha. These two soldiers have lived their lives under one flag, leaving much to the future. These two heroes have changed the course of history by putting their ranks aside and fighting side by side when it comes to the land. Here is the answer to the question of how to be a patriot. Dear MPs, I have many accomplishments in life that give me pleasure. The most enjoyable is to save the lives and future of thousands of neglected children. I bow down before the blessed memory of our father, who sees and raises children without a mother, whom he has left behind with all the destructiveness of war. I send my prayers of mercy. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0003par0018	The second word outside the agenda belongs to Diyarbakır MP Mr. Semra Güzel, who wants to talk about the importance of the vaccine in protective health care. Here you go, Mr. Nice.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0004par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on behalf of my group, I have taken an off-the-book promise. I'll talk about the vaccine. Because of his pandemic, tens of thousands of our citizens have lost their lives, hundreds of health workers. We have repeatedly said that the unilateral epidemic management policies that turn the crisis into opportunity should be abandoned, that the fight against the epidemic should be carried out in a transparent manner. We have made it very clear that labour and professional organisations, especially health workers, should be included in the process. We thought fighting the pandemic was a political issue. However, the ministry has also continued its non-scientific and transparency policies in managing the epidemic. Dear friends have expressed how effective and reliable the vaccines coming from the Union of Turkish Medicines are, the information that phase 3 data should be evaluated by independent scientific boards and shared with the public is important for health and transparency. However, at this stage, the Ministry and the government have made no statement as to which data was approved and what the consequences were. Therefore, society must be informed in a healthy manner by an independent scientific board of vaccines as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, we have seen once again the importance of protective health care in the pandemic process. However, the ministry preferred to conduct this process by prioritizing treatment services. This has caused significant problems, especially in the effective fight against epidemics. The right method is the vaccine within the framework of policy and program implementation, the key tool for fighting the epidemic and ending the epidemic. Inoculations save about 3 million lives every year. It is clear that the widespread inoculation of safe and effective vaccines in Covid-19 pandemics will contribute to controlling the epidemic. In order to ensure public immunity, vaccines that are 80 per cent effective must be vaccinated to 75 per cent and 80 per cent of the population. This means that in order for the vaccines in Turkey to ensure public immunity, 120 million doses should be administered within six months. However, as the ministry has not explained all the details of the inoculation program -- it is unlikely that the doses of vaccines that are coming and future will be able to reach this number. Look, Health Minister Fahrettin Husband has stated that they have a contract for 20 million doses, 20 million doses in January, and 10 million doses in February, a total of 50 million doses. However, even in the Human Medical Products Legislation Act, only on December 18 was added to the provisions of emergency use, and the legal deficit was tried to be corrected. The first 3 million doses of vaccine were only delivered at the end of December. With the second shipment made yesterday, a total of 9.5 million doses of vaccines were delivered. So even half of the vaccines that were supposed to be delivered haven't been delivered yet. Again, it is among questions about how long the continuity of vaccine supply will be provided, how much the price of the unit dose in the bought vaccines is, how much money is being paid for the vaccines that are being provided and provided. Dear lawmakers, this table is the priority table of the group ranking to be vaccinated. First of all, let's rephrase the fact that this painting has to be created by independent scientific boards. We're really curious as to what the second stage and the afterlife are based on. However, although some celebrities were not in the risk group, which was not included in this painting, they were shown in the press that they had been vaccinated, and others were also inoculated in hospitals with inadequacies and torpedoes. Some politicians also vaccinated on the call of the Ministry. We used statements that everyone should get vaccinated by waiting their turn according to the risk group, saying that this method is contrary to the inoculation program and is privileged. That way, we'll make it fairer and more exemplary. Look, the Chief of Staff of Spain resigned after a reaction to vaccinating him by violating the immunization protocol, I don't know, you know? According to the risk groups, the vaccine is a key issue of free, adequate doses. In the process, the disadvantaged parts of society should not be ignored. I've already stated that there are risk groups of prisons and refugee camps that have mass habitats that are now beyond capacity.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0005par0031	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0004par0032	We have not seen refugees or immigrants in the ministry's statements, however, nor in this painting. Dear friends, as I finish my words, I would like to say that once again the results of our community should be abandoned from the Change in Health Programme, where we see them and pay the price for our lives. Hospitals that cost billions of dollars should be converted to public hospitals, which are called public-private partnerships. The first step must be priority of health systems and protective health systems. Health care for the person, society and the environment must be conducted in a complete manner. In particular, health workers should be involved in this process, and this process must be carried out in a transparent manner. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0006par0036	The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakvermit, who wants to talk about Ankara's problems. Here you go, Mr. Hakverdi.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0007par0039	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Last week, our vice president, Mr. Fethi, we worked in the province of Aksaray, along with 20 deputies and members of our party council in the presidency of our Vice President, Mr. Fethi Openel. For two days, we listened to our citizens who lived in Aksaray, along with our party managers, in the co-ordinator Ali Abbas Erturk. First of all, I don't want to keep it on me. Our citizens in Aksaray will welcome you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0008par0041	Hello!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0007par0042	They said, in particular, hello to the rulers whom they had chosen; we cannot see them, nor do they come here at all; but if you see them in the assembly, say hello more than we do. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Our province of Aksaray had given 4 MPs to power in the past term, 2 MPs to this term, but the power unfortunately never looked at the face of our province of Aksaray. The road from the center of the city was thrown out after the highway, especially the service sector and its employees, the resorts and the industry industry, unfortunately, are in a very difficult position. The railroad to the port of Mersin has turned into a tale of snakes. We will bring drinking water from the heat. They said, "There is no drinking water." They draw water with the arthesian and purify it and feed it to their animals. The underground water's dried up, and the electricity costs, I'm afraid. As Mr. President said, as he called for the second century, I'm afraid you're zero at strategic planning. You have dried Aksaray, and the Plains of Iconium, and you have broken the bond between education and production. The new industrial site, which has been under construction for years, should've ended last year, and now it's a year further. First the co-op is set up, then the TOKI will do it. They've been called, and now they've been looking for additional payments and costs to the shop during the extended process. I'm afraid the industry is also very victimized. After the industry, we went to the town of Health, which is central. Animal growers and dairy producers are miserable, I'm afraid. Cost pencils and eating raises have unfortunately finished milk producers, had to sell most of the animals; they said they would soon sell the remains, end production, and seek a minimum wage job. They're expecting support from power, but I'm afraid no one's heard their voices. I went to the apple village. A village that has voted for the AK PARTY is one of the villages that has never voted for our party and has greeted you with many greetings. From the father, from the grandfather, they counted the land that they had sown, and the stones, and the land that had not been sown, as a place for them; and there were fines of about 15,000 lira on it, and no one heard their cries, I'm afraid. Also in the village of Koçpınar, in 2004, the treasure estate was transferred to the village's corporate personality, the land is very common, and many families live in the same house, unfortunately, in the same house, desperate, wanting to build a house for shelter, but no one heard their voices. Now, I took an off-the-book promise on Ankara's problems, and I wanted to share with you the problems of Aksaray, but we know that in order to solve the problems of Aksaray, Anatolia, we have to solve the problem in Ankara first. First, I would like to point out that during the past period in Ankara, one of Ankara's biggest problems has been solved, Mansur has come slowly, but now it's time to solve the biggest problem in Ankara. A black hole six kilometers from the Capitol swallows up every resource in the country and melts it to ashes. The court's daily expenses are 11 million, 11 million and covert grants. He has sold many institutions, including sugar factories, PETKIM, TÜPRASH, TÜRK TELEKOM, ports, coupons in the Bosphorus of Istanbul; it is not enough; it is not enough; it is enough that he has founded the Fund of Being; it has broken down the profitable institutions, it has damaged the reserve money of the country; it has swallowed up even the money of the country. During the time of the pandemic, people predicted to spend 640 million on their summer palace in Marmaris, and 99 million on their winter palace in Ahlat. This year, Redcahamamamam made thermal hotels for senior bureaucrats of 30 million this year.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0009par0052	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0007par0053	I am, Mr. President. There's no saving dignity." He says, "People are killing themselves, and they're killing themselves." Now, I'd like to ask you, our citizens who voted for the AK PARTY in Aksaray Province, if the residents of the Serbian palaces could solve the Koppınar village's housing problem, or care about the fine of fifteen thousand lira for the apple farmers? Do they hear the voice of an Aksaray citizen who's lost his way when they're traveling around the world with his flying palace? Do those who spend billions on their summer palace take care of business problems? Do those who spend 11 million a day on people's backs in their thousand-bedroom palaces know what a thirsty farmer looks like, or does he know the suffering of milk makers in Health Town? This waste system will end; with new rules, new institutions, and new staffs, the Republican People's Party will be a cure for Anatolia. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0010par0058	Congressmans, I will now promise the first 20 MPs to enter the system a minute of their place. Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0011par0060	Mr. President, the epidemic of the tradesman to his farmer, his student to his unemployed has victimized us all in health and economic terms. Those who didn't sit in palaces and see the suffering of our citizens have deepened rather than solved it. Turkey closed at least 99,588 tradesmen in 2020, according to Esnaf and Artists Records. While the tradesman cries out for blood, they are urged to be unresolved. The walls of the palaces are too thick, perhaps they don't hear this cry from him, but come, listen to your conscience. You see the drama of our people when you're out on the street, do what the social government requires. Advanced countries explain hundreds of billions of dollars of support packages to their farmers from their tradesmen during the epidemic, while you take steps to show off, show off. Stop the show, find a cure for this fire, calm this cry. Give the government's help to the merchant who says, "We will die of hunger, not from the plague." Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0010par0062	Mr. Montenegro...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0012par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. The agricultural sector, which is of great importance to our country's economy, has significant problems to address. The outbreak of Covid-19 has also caused problems to deepen. More and more input prices, such as fertilizer, medicine, electricity and irrigation fees, among the agricultural problems of the Iğdır province, have negative impact on production. The farmer who produces these conditions seems difficult to maintain production under this burden. Our farmers need to be comforted by the withdrawal of entry prices to reasonable levels. We also expect that the producers' debts to the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Cooperatives will be structured long-term, with or without interest. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0013par0066	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0014par0067	Thank you. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers will continue to receive health care from state and university hospitals until 31/12/2021, when the President's decision is issued on January 23rd, and our citizens who owe general health insurance and BUGKUR bonus. On the other hand, on the basis of Covid-19 pandemics, tax payments on the interim jobs of the Ministry of Interior which have been temporarily suspended as part of the measures taken by the Interior Ministry were a reason. The deadlines and payments were extended until the end of the 26th day of the month, which followed the deadline for the arrest. The measures that our country has taken due to its pandemic have set an example for the world of its benefits, its tradesmen, its employers and its employees. I thank Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who successfully manages the pandemic process and supports all affected communities, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0015par0070	Mr. Flitz...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0016par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. On January 26, 1933, Ataturk arrived at Gaziantep on the eve of Ramadan's Day and gave the Gaziantep a double holiday to the Gaziantepites, who were proud of their epic struggle against the French, giving 6,317 martyrs without any help or support. According to the city council, Ataturk had been given a beret as an honorary citizen and registered to the population of Gaziantep Bey neighbourhood. His first act as Gaziantepli was to open Gaziantep High School on February 1, 1933, announcing the public's request for the opening of the high school with a telegram to Prime Minister Inönul. Gaziantep High School has provided numerous graduates, who have been among Turkey's favorite high schools for many years, serving under state administration. In the 88th year of his arrival in Gaziantep, I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, all of our martyrs, and also the Shark conqueror, his orphaned father, Kazim Karabekir Pasha, who was a martyr today seventy-three years ago.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0017par0075	Mr. Yilmakaya...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0018par0076	Mr. President, our young brother, who works at the bagel oven for bread on curfews, is trying to explain his problem when he leaves the bakery where he works at night, but he can't get out of prison. This young brother of ours is now a soldier in Siirt. The soldier's son, for his needs, is confiscated by the bank for 100 euros of the family that sent the allowance, and, on top of that, our brother's 300 dollars in military wages are confiscated, and the three-month soldier is surprised at what he will do. His parents are looking into it, and it turns out that the Gaziantep IRS has confiscated the soldier's salary and all the money he sent. It's just an example. You rejoice that the administrative punishments that were imposed on the law have reached 15 billion. Shame is a sin! What do you want with a poor soldier, a poor citizen who can't pay? Unfortunately, you've had your eye on the money. When there was no money left in the treasury, you even coveted the allowance of poor citizens, soldiers, Mehmet-chik. This mistake must be returned immediately, to apologize to our fallen citizens, and these punishments must be forgiven. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0017par0078	Mr. Polat...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0019par0079	Mr. President, you know, the country's more efficient, faster governance of the state is the presidential government system with a referendum on April 16th. Those who don't respect the will and power of the nation, those who send greetings to the outside forces, those who walk arm in arm with terrorists, those who wink at the guardians, are forced to accept this system. CHP President has used the so-called President-General's statement for Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the first elected President of this system. This is a rejection of our nation's will. Not all things are in the chest. Those who say, "All things are infamy and backward." The efforts of those who have not done any good to our nation, and those who have not done any good to the nation, in the face of the loyalty and dedication of our President, who is no more than a servant to our nation, are futile in their efforts to defame him and the EC PARTI. The sun doesn't roll with clay. The CHP President must apologize to our nation, then to our President, or this nation will not forgive CHP again. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0020par0082	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0021par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country where at least three women's murders a day are being committed, this violence is becoming ordinary. At the end of last month, my colleague at the university where I had served in the past, my colleague, Dr. Aylin Teller, who served at İstanbul Aydın University School of Education, lost him with a brutal murder. I remember him with respect. Parliament, political parties, us, not only condemn these murders, we need to get together urgently to do more, to stop violence against women and women's murders. As each member of parliament, we are responsible for the solution to this problem. We can schedule a special session immediately. We must stop discussing the Istanbul Convention, which guarantees the violence against the woman and makes women feel safer. For the effective implementation of the contract, we must immediately do our legislature and audit duty on the implementation of all vehicles. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0022par0088	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0023par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Ministry of Family Labor and Social Services co-ordinated, while the first appointment of the new year was to continue to increase employment in public institutions, especially for the victims and veterans and state protection, while the first appointment of the new year was held today with the ceremonies of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. At the social appointment ceremony, a total of 3,603 people were appointed, including 2,140 disabled, 1,093 state guards and 370 relatives of the deceased, veterans and veterans. As the EC PARTI rulings, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has taken advantage of state protection under the leadership of young people, disabled people, relatives of martyrs and veterans, and we will continue to stand by his side. I congratulate my brothers and sisters who have settled in, wish them well, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0024par0093	Mr. Stoneborn... Thank you, Mr. President. Eighty-eight years ago today -- January 26, 1933 -- there was a meeting of two veterans. Gazi Mustafa Kemal is the day Ataturk came to Gaziantep. It is the day of the arrival of thousands of Gaziantep's Gazi Mustafa Kemali from Basrakol to the city square. Every city, every town and even the smallest Turkish village, which calls it my Turk, can take to itself the Gaziantep (Ghaziantep) and the Gaziantep (Ghaziantep) as heroics. All Antwerp remember the word with longing and longing. Gazi visited our city, arrived on the day of Arife, and spent Ramadan's Day in Gaziantep, where Mustafa Kemal Ataturk became an honorary citizen of Gaziantep and registered as an honorary citizen at Bey neighbourhood 1 address. Mr. Etmez...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0025par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. As a country, we witnessed another historic moment yesterday. In the 1st year of the January 24th earthquake, which burned all of our hearts, the President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was handed over to the owners of 8,000 dwellings. In just one year, there were built dwellings worthy of our nation, which were worthy of Elazığ. A happy habitat has been prepared for our citizens with their schools, mosques, parks. This development is one of the greatest indicators of what we come from as a country, a state that is always next to the nation, led by our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I thank you separately to all of our institutions that have worked in the construction of the dwellings, and once again to God's mercy to our citizens who died in the earthquake.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0026par0100	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0027par0101	The outbreak of Covid-19 revealed a reality in our country, an inequality of opportunity in education with total nudity. In Adıyaman, we have bright children, young people, trying to prove that geography is not destiny by reading in every corner of Asia Minor. These children and our young are victims of Internet and tablet deprivation, along with remote education. At the highest peak of the village where they were found in the winter, sometimes as in the village of Gum in Sincik, Adıyaman, in Sincik district, the images of our children trying to access the Internet came to the media, and all of us felt guilty. I'm making it clear from here to the President and all relevant ministries. Before the second term begins, provide the Internet and tablet needs of our students. You haven't vaccinated your children, so you can meet them on the Internet, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0026par0103	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0028par0104	Mr. President, we all make sacrifices in the fight against Covid-19, we've all gone through constraints in our lives, but there are still those who mock, mock, disrespect society. These should be sanctioned in the name of the public. With the measures taken, the number of cases has decreased, but the epidemic is not over; it is necessary not to relax; it is too early to take precautions. Once we've eased the precautions, we can have the same problems again. In order to ensure our public immunity, we must carefully administer the vaccine. Very quickly, if we immunize 60 percent of society's risk group, we can control the epidemic. At this time, we must continue to observe masks and social distance measures. We have to ask people from abroad for a test, a certificate that says the test is negative and vaccinated. From now on, the precautions...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0026par0106	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0029par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our country, has said that the government is a unconditional nation, but the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, unfortunately, has been transformed into a structure far from solving our nation's problems. We have architects, engineers and city planners waiting to be appointed from our parliament, hundreds of thousands of health workers from every branch, public contractors, non-employees, subcontracted workers and temps who, despite their commitments, the IIT people, the unemployed, the artists and artists who have been forced to shut down the store, the COBI, the coffee makers, the TEL dealer, the street tradesman, the vendors, the caterers, the entertainment industry, the musicians, the amateur sports world, the families who are now living, the lives of thousands of our citizens, the children who are going to the market... what are we going to do now? Citizen...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0026par0110	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0030par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. May the House of 2021 be a blessing to our nation, to our country. Human history has evolved in parallel with engineering services. The civil engineering profession and engineers have a decisive role in the way society can live in more healthy, safer structures, interconnected with nature. Buildings and cities in recent years should be created to minimize the loss of life and financial damage that have followed. In order to provide effective use of resources, efficient planning, projecting and effective control, our construction engineers have become very important and essential. Taking into account all these developments, our young friends from civil engineering, who have graduated, demand that their employment be provided in line with public staff selection, based on merit. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0031par0117	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0032par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Science Kayseri continues to be punished by the ruling party. The ruling party treats Kayseri as a stepchild. In terms of public investments, Kayseri is ranked 79, between 81 districts. For the past 13 years, Kayseri had been promised a high-speed train, and he promised a high-speed train to 2 presidents, 3 Prime Minister and 7 Transport Minister Kayseri. At last, Transport Minister Ahmet Arslan said that in 2017, Kayseri will take the high-speed train. The year 2021 passes, where's the high-speed train, Mr. Secretary? Did it come and go so fast that he couldn't see the high-speed train? I asked the appointed minister, when will he come to Kayseri, as a high-speed train, and the appointed minister said...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0031par0121	Mr. Ersoy...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0033par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is considered to be a water - rich country, not a water - stressing country, as it is thought, given the amount of available water per person. Today, 74 per cent of our fresh water resources are used in agriculture, 15 per cent in domestic use and 11 per cent in industry. It is important to maintain water reserves, especially in agricultural activities, to implement a closed irrigation system. For Turkey and for many countries, NASA broadcast satellite images on 11 January 2021, stressing that Turkey had a severe drought in most parts of Turkey in early 2021, considering the critical situation for underground waters. Let us not forget that while dealing with the global threat of the Covid-19, another threat to mankind, the drought issue, also needs to show proper sensitivity. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0034par0125	Mr. Arkaz...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0035par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2021, the year 2021, where masks, distances have disappeared; we've all been vaccinated; I've been coronated. The sentence will not be heard; the number of cases, the number of deaths, the concepts of intubation; the age where the children find peace; the children play chirping in the streets; the intensive care remain empty; the constraints remain unremembered; our entire nation will look to the future with confidence; the year when we will walk through strong Turkey by getting rid of the flu. I wish the first General Assembly meeting of 2021 to the best of our Veteran Assembly. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0036par0129	Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0037par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. To the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism... where there is a forest, a land area, shore, a plain, a mera... where we see the projects of fellow businessmen. A company owned by Genghis Holdings, one of the most beautiful coves in the Bodrum district of Mugla. It has been publicly reflected in the public that it plans to build two beaches in the Bay of Eden, where it has prepared the Coastal Editing, Protection Buildings and Dogu Area Project, and has applied to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation for CED as part of the project. The area of the project is located within the area of culture, natural beings, archaeological Site of the 3rd Degree, and protection. The project includes 71 species of plants, 82 species of 11 systematic groups, and 17 species of endemic reptiles with 302 individuals. The public is nowhere near this project; they are not asked by the municipality or by the citizen. This project must be cancelled. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0038par0133	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0039par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm speaking to the Minister of Agriculture that the tobacco manufacturer's rights were set at $22 last year, but in our country, especially in the case of Mr. Minister of Economics and as the entire country knows, inflation was announced at 14.6 in 2020. And that's what I'm asking: why do you only pay $22 this year when you paid $21 for tobacco last year? Due to the authority of six companies, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, you are not the Minister of Agriculture in Turkey; I stress specifically that you have not done this task. Mr. President, on the other hand, there are 3,000 imams in Turkey in total, and all of these proxy imams are asking for a staff, and I would like to share this especially with you from here. I'd like to bring you to the attention of the people required to open the necessary staff.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0040par0137	Your Highness...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0041par0138	In our country where women are forced to live in a violent spiral, where they are slaughtered every day by at least three women's wives, relatives, people they don't know, and they're slaughtered by men they don't know, it's the basic responsibility of everyone with the dignity of stopping women's murders. It's a matter of basic human rights, but above all, it's a matter of failure to govern. Parliament must take measures to stop this kind of corruption at a special agenda immediately, as per the nature of responsibility, and follow that signed contracts have been enforced. Women don't die, women do. The Istanbul Convention lives on. This is the most important part of stopping sexism by implementing the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0040par0140	Yes, thank you. Congressmans, this is the first General Assembly of 2021 and the first merger. The year 2020 was a bad year for our female friends, for our brothers, for our female friends, and for the speakers of earlier times. Therefore, after the speech of the Deputy Group Presidents, at the beginning of the year 2021, I give a positive privilege to our female friends and say that if they ask for their place, I will give them a minute's promise. (Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY desks) and I meet the demands of the Deputy Directors of the Group. Mr. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu, deputy chairman of the group. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0042par0144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I pray to God that 2021 brings blessings to our country, our nation, and our Veterans Assembly. Hopefully, we'll make good decisions and have a process worthy of the presence of the House. Last week, our soldier, Private Selim Ghazim, wounded by the explosion of handmade explosives planted by terrorists in Hakkari, was killed in spite of all the interference at the hospital. Our martyr's body was buried in Sakaryah yesterday. I offer God's mercy to our hero son, and my condolences to his grieving family, and to our beloved nation. Dear Commander of our national struggle, due to his outstanding achievements on the Eastern Front, he has been awarded the Statistical Medal, and I honor and mercy the late Governor Karabekir Pasha, who served as President of our post- republical Veteran Assembly, on the 73rd anniversary of his death, his place will be paradise, his soul. A Turkish container ship named Mozart, which was sailing off the coast of Nigeria in the Gulf of Guinea, was attacked by pirates. A brother from Azerbaijan died on our ship, where pirates raided with weapons. The pirates have wounded two of our sailors and taken 15 of our sailors hostage. I ask God's mercy for our Azerbaijan brother, who died in the attack, and I wish our wounded sailors immediate healing, and I long for our kidnapped sailors to return home safely. We, Mr. Coral Akşener Ma'am, lead by the PARTI of the county, county and county, continue to address the problems of our tradesman in place and bring them to the agenda of Parliament. In addition to the increasing cost of living with high inflation, revenues reduced or completely cut by thousands of workplaces have created a heavy loss of income in the trade. The tradesman's debt has been raised, the loans have been unpayable. The government's support packages were inadequate, and the tradesman's problem couldn't be helped. When the malls are open and the cafeterias are closed, or when hotels are serving restaurants, it's unfair to let the shopkeeper just serve the package, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is continuing to increase the sacrifices. In this scope, the government must form an urgent business plan with healing sanctions. The mortgage payments used by the infected tradesman must be postponed for a year without interest for electricity, water, natural gas bills. The scope and amount of cash and rent support must be expanded. Businesses whose activities have been halted under bans must be opened with a HES code requirement, as applied in the malls. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0043par0153	Deputy Minister of the Group of the National Movement Party, Mr. Muhammad Levent Nightingale. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0044par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I, of our national struggle heroes, remember with mercy and prayer the death of the 5th President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Kazim Karabekir, who, without hesitation, holds the only armed force in the hands of the Turkish nation, along with its 15th Corps. Mr. President, during the opening of our Istanbul Esenyurt electoral office in 2014, we remember him in the 7th year of his testimony by Yusufiyeli Genghis Akyıld, who was killed by the separatist terrorist organization as he carried out the press activity of our Istanbul province office, and to his family, to all those who love him and to our community again. Again, Selim Gedik, the son of our Sakarya, who was injured during the mine search in Hakkari, and who died in the hospital where he was treated, is also at Allah's mercy and our condolences to the Turkish nation. Mr. President, as it is known, the pandemic process continues all over the world. The ongoing inoculation in our country under Covid-19 disease continues successfully and programmed. Under the immunization programme, the first three million doses of vaccines that came to our country were successfully implemented, while the second party, the 10 million doses of vaccines, reached our country on Monday morning. In this process, we see a very serious inoculation substructure in our country, where there are confusing, anti-occession-free explanations. We feel legal measures must be taken against those who make unrealistic and unscientific statements. As soon as our President and Mr. President come back with more vaccines without hesitation, we invite our entire nation, once again, to be immunized in an attempt to set an example for our society in the first place. Mr. President, in his statement on January 16, 2021, through social media, if Mr. President and Mr. President of Azerbaijan find it appropriate...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0045par0162	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0044par0163	...in the city of Shusha, Azerbaijan, in the town of Shusha, in Karabağ, Turkey, he stated that he wanted to build a nine-room school. Our president said the name of this school would be Shusha-born and the composer of the Azerbaijan National Anthem, Üzeyir Hadjibeyov, whose foundation could be launched on January 30, 2021 if accepted. With the mutual agreement and approval of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and President of Azerbaijan Mr İlk Aliyev (Azerbaijan), our desire to build a school in Shuşa has been approved. Azerbaijan will be handed over to the Republic of Azerbaijan as soon as the school is completed by the Education and Culture Foundation in January.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0045par0166	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0044par0167	On this occasion, Mr. President, once again, we owe our presidents a debt of gratitude, and we wish them well. Finally, we are witnessing that the struggles with separatist terrorist groups continue uninterrupted. In this case, the Eren-1 Tendurek, Eren-2 lice, Eren-3 Ağrı Mountain, Eren-4 Karliova-Varto, Eren-5 Bagok operations have been successful. As we wish all of our security forces who are involved in these operations success, I once again remember our brother Eren Nightingale, whose name we named these operations, with mercy and gratitude, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0045par0169	Vice President of the People's Democratic Party, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş... Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0046par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I'd like to start with a woman's issue, women's demands. The Women's platform for Equality has been preparing a report on women's work in Congress for a long time. They also shared their fourth report with the public, and these reports record the activities of the parties in the parliament concerning women, in fact, one by one, if you will. But the conclusion from these reports, unfortunately, is that women's work is insufficient under the roof of the House. Lastly, at least 3 women are killed per day, which is now a form of violence. He launched a campaign across Turkey, and the basic demand of the campaign is for us, all of us, to Parliament. They say to the Parliament: "In order for this kind of division to be ended, gather quickly to end it, evaluate it, take measures." Yes, we, as the People's Democratic Party, have submitted general talks, research proposals on this subject many times before, each month, and unfortunately none of this has been accepted. Our last request for a general meeting was not accepted under this roof, and we couldn't discuss it. Today we respond once again to the call of this ECHIC: On behalf of our party, we are ready to do so, as required by this request, we will lower our general debate proposal today, and our preacher will speak here. And I call to parliament, all parties without exception: Don't deny this general request, as you have rejected it before; let's open a general discussion, as representatives of the people and representatives of the women who are half of this community -- let's talk about their measures, talk about their solutions, and make a promise to over 40 million women; this is our duty, our responsibility. Mr. President, another matter, the matter of hunger strikes, unfortunately, is not off the agenda of Turkey. Yes, again, today is the 61st day of hunger strikes in many prisons against oppression, rights violations and isolation. What do you think the request is? Let the law be enforced. For the use of the law, for its implementation, people put their bodies to hunger, and thousands of prisoners are trying to preach their demands. In the coming days, we hope we don't have to make many promises and those demands will be met. People don't have to die so the law can be enforced. I specifically address the ruling party: enforce law, end isolation, end rights violations, end unfair oppression in prisons.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0047par0176	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0046par0177	Mr. President, this is a photo I have. Yes, the memorial and earthquake dwellings held by President and AKP President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for the 1st anniversary of the Elazazig earthquake in Yaşonak. Yeah, it's a rally of thousands of people in the pandemic era. That's the double standard, that's discrimination. We are banned from the pandemic of events where we meet 10 people, where we go to the graveyards and leave a rose, a carnation, but when we become President, when the ruling party becomes president, all of Turkey sees this, there's a rally under the name of key surrender. End this double standard right now and go back to the law. Dear President, another matter is about the Bank of Agriculture. Farmer's basic...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0047par0180	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0046par0181	During this period of power, public banks became what politicians, political relatives, corporations, conglomerates were called. In the AKP's ruling period, looting and looting of public banks is at stake. Everyone needs to know and hear this. We can't end up counting millions of dollars in loans to corporations and conglomerates. Now, I just want to tell you about the Farm Bank mess. We've also submitted several questions on this subject, hoping it will be answered as soon as possible. We don't say it, the Court reports it. A company in the British Virgin Islands, known as the tax paradise, has been credited with $1.6 billion, and only 17.5m euros were recovered from the British Virgin Islands until March 2020.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0047par0184	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0046par0185	In addition, the sum of tardy payments and interest payments is 726 million dollars. Again, the $200m portion of the $630m pool created for the purchase of the Morning and ATV (A.T.V.), which belongs to the Charik group, has turned out to be covered by Turkey's Agriculture Bank. Where are the credits, why aren't they coming after you? But you know how to confiscate the poor farmer's field, his vineyard, his tractor, his tender. Look, it's in the press. The Bank of Zaraat has sold 899... from farmers who can't pay their debts to the bank. In the riot, the farmer says, "I'm costing 70 cents, I'm selling it for 60 cents."
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0048par0189	Yeah, let's take the last words.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0046par0190	Instead of listening to this riot, the Bank of Agriculture repossesses loans, instead of delaying loans, it repossesses their land. Such a lack of conscience has never been seen anywhere. What are these farmers supposed to do, eat rocks? Why don't you put the farmer's property on the market and go after the million-dollar loans you gave him? This error must be abandoned and the Bank of Agriculture must act as a public bank. Mr. President, the last thing I'm going to say is that Alevi villages and homes continue to be marked. This is a very serious distress signal. The five families who lived in Yalova's Bağlarbaşı neighborhood were given cross-signs. This has happened before in Almus district of Tokat. Terminate discrimination against Alevis, double standard and target policy immediately. We are with our Alevi citizens, and we will continue to unite with them. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0049par0193	Thank you. Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0050par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. We wish there would be a year when our New Year's Assembly could do better work for our nation, improve the culture of reconciliation, co-exist in the common demands of the ruling opposition, as the Republican People's Party Group. Last week, Selim Godik lost our brother as a result of an improvised explosive device from the terrorist organization. We ask for God's mercy, and we ask for patience in his family and in our nation. Our ship was attacked by pirates off the coast of Nigeria. Three of our sailors survived, but there are prisoners, and one of our Azerbaijan citizens followed with great regret that our brother had also lost his life. We haven't made contact yet, so we're watching carefully. Today, during the Gulf of Aden, we will express our assessment of the subject, our proposals. We're with the families, and our hearts follow in our mouths. Mr. President, the Battle of Salvation has taken important positions on the Eastern Front, the anniversary of the death of Kazim Karabekir, an important commander who changed the course of the Salvation War. He's not just a hero of the Salvation War, but his contributions to the next foundation process are extremely important. Kazım Karabekir, the 5th Parliament Speaker of our Parliament, died of a heart attack while serving as President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, elected on 5 August 1946. On this occasion, we remember once again our commanders and heroes, especially Kazim Karabekir, with mercy and gratitude. January is a bad month of major political assassinations in our recent history. We know that some time after the assassination of Cumhuriyet daily writer Uğur Mumcu, who was mentioned on Sunday, the wall would be torn down if I pulled a brick from Mr. Güldal Mumcu. No government has ever pulled that brick, and the Justice and Development Party governments have not dared to pull this brick. Just this year, we followed that they had brought them to Turkey and were released after their testimony, guaranteeing that I would not be arrested by the Selahattin wife, Ali Akbulut and Aydın Koral, who were wanted in the case of Ugur Mumcu. All we have is the name Oğuz Demir.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0051par0203	Please come in.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0050par0204	No background work is being conducted, and Turkey will not be able to go straight without facing unsolved murders. I'd like to record once again that our motions for the investigation of unsolved murders in previous legislative times have been rejected by ruling party votes. The anniversary of Hrant Dink's death was 19 January, as was Uğur Mumcu on January 19, 2007, and the darkness of the murder of Agos daily Editor-in-Chief Hrant Dink has yet to be fully illuminated. There's a strange power behind dozens of ingrates, defendants and witnesses, who have been trying to prove that Rakel Dink had done his duty properly for the past 14 years, which he stated at the memorial service. There's a state structure trying to prove he's almost an idiot to prove he's not a murderer.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0051par0207	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0050par0208	Let the wall fall down, and this people will build better; but if they cannot build it, it is ruin, says Rakel Dink. Unfortunately, on that day, a appointed President of Communications is holding and in his statement, he says: "The conscientious son of our country, Hrant Dink, the courageous lover of Anatolia." His sweat, his pen, has always struggled for the brotherhood, it has been 14 years since the treacherous terrorist organization took Hrant. There is no sincerity in these sentences, there is no self-criticism in these sentences. These sentences do not see the responsibility of the Justice and Development Party, which repeatedly voted no to motions to investigate Hrant Dink's murder. You don't wash your hands with a Å soap and turn into rice.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0051par0210	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0050par0211	There's dirt in the hand, rust in the hand. If you later make the Minister of Justice of the period, if you make the Minister of Parliament of İstanbul Governor Muammar Güler. If you make the then İstanbul Police Commissioner Celalettin Surgery later, you can't go out today and say that he did it. We didn't do it. The signature under those decrees is still running the country today. It is our duty to remind you of this responsibility. Mr. President, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the Justice and Development Party must discuss whether there is a party called the People's Party of the Republic. The Republican People's Party is a party founded before the republic, the party of salvation, the party of the foundation; Turkey is the third most radical political movement in the world, and is the party of a citizen of the Republic of Turkey who voted 11.5 million votes for it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0052par0216	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0050par0217	While you, on the one hand, have given the harshest answers to your own legitimacy, insults, and embrace the courts, and take refuge in the courts, it is an understanding that despite all the pressure to vote for the Republican People's Party -- being a Republican People's Party -- is an interview block, as well as an appointment block -- that ignores those who are members of the Republican People's Party. Mr. President, there's been no Parliament for a long time, problems have been piling up. Our Roma citizens are speaking to you from Izmir, all of us; we have Roma citizens in Tepecik, who cannot provide for themselves because of pandemics in Crescent and Aegean neighbourhoods. They live on street economics; they want to work, they can't work. When they're home, they're hungry, and when they're out on the street, they're face-to-face with death.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0052par0220	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0050par0221	These citizens have been without electricity for a week because their electricity bills haven't been paid, they've been acting with gas lamps, they've been shaking in the cold. This decision is not a conscientious decision. Besides, we begged, we begged, don't privatize electricity, it's critical, it's strategic. In recent days, hundreds of villages in Bartin and Zonguldak have faced electricity shortages that have paralyzed life for exactly eight days. You ask, it snowed, that's what happened. They call it. They say there's no Ekipman. They say there's no Eleman. They say there's no Eleman. You're looking, you're looking for a city MP, you're taking a district MP, you're not depending on the state, you're interfering with TEDAS, it's the private company's business. That's what we've been saying for months, years, we've talked about it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0052par0223	Let's open it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0050par0224	Of the children trembling in Zonguldak, Recep Tayyip Erdogan is responsible for the Roma who were left in the cold in İzmir, who privatised electricity from farmers who were burned in agriculture because of debt. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0052par0227	AK PARTY Deputy Director Mehmet Mush. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0053par0230	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. In Hakkari, the martyr who was wounded in the fight against terror and then received mercy from the All-beneficent, we remember it with mercy and gratitude. Our nation will never forget our martyrs, and this country, if this state stands, stands in the struggle of our martyrs, our veterans. A loan issue has been discussed in public for a long time, and has been mentioned on various platforms. Although this has been explained, this issue is being brought up because it is a very useful subject. In fact, the Turkcell group is being given a loan, and the reason for this loan -- given to the Turkcell group Çukurova -- is because of its shares in Turkcell, and because of this loan, the Turkish partnership in Turkcell is protected. Otherwise, there was the loss of the Turkish presence here, and in October 2020, the loan was closed. How it was given about this is shown in independent audit reports every three months about what conditions it was given, and those who wanted to study it can. And finally, as you know, the ruling stock here has been transferred to the Turkish Entity Fund, the Republic of Turkey. I'd like that to be known. With this work done by the Agriculture Bank on that day, 26 per cent today is the dominant shareholder's Fund. Now, here, the Bank of Agriculture finances our farmers. Look, he's got 685 thousand customers who use agricultural loans, and he's given $80 billion in loans to the Agriculture Bank. Tracking rates are also very low here. This is one and a half percent follow-up rates. The Bank of Agriculture has been constantly forwarding them, either structured them, or they haven't launched a follow-up, they've been at a very low level. I'd like to point out that there's a policy here with the farmer. We, the AK PARTY Group, would like to remember Kazim Karabekir here with mercy and gratitude. Indeed, Karabekir is one of the figures who had an important contribution to the Liberation War, a key role in the gathering of the conventions, organized the fight that day with the army under his command, organized the fight that day. The Republic of Turkey owes much to Kazim Karabekir. I'd like to point out that, of course, Uður Mumcu died in January 1993 in a dark attack on a dark murder. It's a great loss for Turkey, a very sad loss, a terrible loss.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0054par0237	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0053par0238	Therefore, Turkey has lost its value. The incident took place in January 1993. We're not in power at the time, we come from the beginning of 2003, on November 3, 2002, about ten years later. Look, for ten years, a lot of republican governments are coming. At that time, Minister of Justice, I believe it was Ismet Sezgin of the Right Path Party -- who was also deceased -- Prime Minister Ironel, the late Prime Minister, again the late Inönu of the Prime Minister. So at the time of the government at that time, unfortunately, this dark picture is being processed, and the government can't catch the perpetrators, it can't actually light up the murder, and the governments after that can't do it. We come to power in ten years, but the language used here in the talks is incriminating. Guys, don't blame us. For the past ten years, these governments have not been able to shed any light on this case, over the past ten years.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0054par0241	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0053par0242	I'd like to say that we're trying to do whatever needs to be done about this. He has made some criticisms regarding the matter of Mr. Special Chief of Staff. The Republican People's Party is a party that needs to do this autonomy, because there's a CHP who stands in the way of this terrorist organization, when there's a struggle, to express support for it, to give statements in front of newspapers, to send lawmakers in front of its bank, while it's going on television that day, while it's interfering with companies there, there's a CHP who's blocking it and making support statements. Therefore, I advise them not to use this incriminating language. If they had been in the government's presence that day, they would have had the right to criticize themselves on different matters. Today they have no right to criticize themselves because they were standing in front of us when we were fighting.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0055par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0056par0246	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0055par0247	Mr. President, I don't intend to extend much, but the fact is that I've been here for ten years and Mr. Mehmet Mush has been here for ten years. For years, when we were members of the Republican People's Party's political cases and prison commission, we said, "Ergenekon" and we said, "Serbian espionage." From this time on, they told us that there is no smoke without fire. We told them, we begged, we couldn't get them to listen, and they attempted to strike this country, which they had brought to command, to the F16, where they were together that day, and then put together a referendum on September 12, 2010. We were here again.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0057par0249	Yeah, what the hell?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0056par0250	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0055par0251	Throughout political history, of course, when newspapers close, all opposition becomes the center of attention. Look at how the National Movement Party you're with today is at that time in those matters. In places where the heel of the cantar escapes, Turkey will react in certain ways to a controversial point of press freedom around the world, because political power has been fulfilled in opposition responsibilities, you open the bank, cut the ribbon, broker the union loan, vouch for the Republic of Turkey; then, if those who pass by that bank are guilty, wash your hands with Å shampoo. You get those papers to the businessmen, you get them to distribute them for free, you read them at every barber's shop, you spoon them together, you get off the table, you wash your hands with a shampoo.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0056par0253	Let's wrap it up, please. I'm ending it, Mr. President. There is no one in this group who has one photo with Fetullah Smiley, went to visit, supported them, brokered road cleaning and promoted them, signed their loans, their assignments, and sweated with them. And We took care of what they shed of tears, and We recounted it for years, and We struggled for many years. The only group that needs self-criticism is the Justice and Development Party Group. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0058par0257	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0056par0258	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0059par0259	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Group Vice President responded to me, too. In fact, as far as I can tell, we gave the credits, but we saved Turkcell. He said something like that, so that's what I figured. Well, that's exactly what I'm saying, why don't you save the farmers?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0060par0261	There is, we've saved them a fund, 80 billion dollars. We took it to cover their losses.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0059par0262	You're saving the ATV, you're buying the String Group, you're giving millions of dollars of pro bono loans, we know how many loans you're giving the iron -- you're always protecting your own fans, your own crew, and everything else -- but when it comes to the poor farmer, you seize his tractor and leave the farmer to die, that's exactly what I'm asking, and what do the farmers do? I mean, you don't give the loan to the farmers, you go to the supporters, you give them a million-dollar grant. Here's the Bank of Agriculture giving them credits every day to expand the advocacy media. So we didn't get an answer to our question.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0061par0264	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0060par0265	Mr. President, I, of course, make my statements to the General Assembly and to the public; anyone can have what they want. We have 80 billion loans being used to our farmers, and that's why it's so low the tracking rate -- 1.5 percent; normally 4 percent in the industry -- is from the Farm Bank -- because it doesn't go over the farmer, it doesn't go after the farmer, it builds, it makes it easier, it makes it easier. It's the same thing I said about Turkcell. Regarding other issues, the ATV group is returning, other issues -- friends, if there's a public loss there, if there's a public harm, it's a common responsibility for all of us; in this regard, please file a criminal complaint concerning the administration there, please, I'd like to express this in particular. Now, dear friends, look, the photo issue, the other issues... now, from the moment a structure starts committing a crime, you're going to go for it. Now, the photograph... if you ask, look, there are pictures of Süleyman Demirel, photos of Özal, photographs of Bulent Ecevit, photos of him hugging; they are all dead. I've got pictures of other people, many other prime ministers that I can think of, and pictures of them next to each other.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0062par0270	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0060par0271	Now, as soon as a structure starts committing a crime, that's what you go through, that's what you're dealing with, so that's what we're saying. Look, dear friends, we've said the same thing a hundred times; you've said it, and we've said it. Look, when we're fighting an organization like this, if the Republican People's Party had taken a position next to the government for 40 years, when no one had had the courage for 50 years, it would have been much easier, much easier to fight this organization today, that's what we mean. Dear friends, there's no use making dry noise, dry polemics; that's the truth, that's the reality. And it's about banks, friends, thousands of people put money in there, thousands of people took out loans; it's not entirely relevant. Look, there's this bank problem with capital efficiency; there's a ratio, it needs to hit. He can't get it the first time, he can't get it the next time. The NGO has the right to intervene under the Banking Act. Then, the leader of the gang calls, saying: "Come here, deposit money." From then on, there are transactions and reviews of investors who have invested money to ensure capital efficiency.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0063par0275	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0060par0276	Mr. President, therefore, or else millions of people have made withdrawals, deposits, and if you do it all related to all of this, you'll have people you haven't processed, friends. That's the sensitivity of the subject, so I'd like it to be known. Dear friends, we're not going to do any more polemics on this, but there's one organization, look, there's the press-release side, there's other areas that produce resources for it; they're fought collectively. As for freedom of press, we have made it easy. If it was a normal structure, if it was an organization that wasn't involved in the crime scene, if it was a media intervention, you'd be right. If there's an intervention in another newspaper here -- a crime scene, if it's not a crime -- it's justified that you react to it, it's true, it's something the opposition party should do, but it's different there. You just said that, you know, we've reacted dozens of times to cases in that period, and while you were reacting, they were doing different publications, but you sent your friends there while they were being shut down, so that's the contradiction. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0064par0280	Yeah, that's the last time I'm gonna turn it on.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0060par0281	Look, I'm trying to make that clear. I don't want to take my word for it any longer. Thank you, General Kurula.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0064par0283	Mr. Stonemaker...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0065par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Three women are killed every day in Turkey by men. These systematic killings can't be described as singular events because there's a mentality behind these murders. Thus, the situation has now become a form of causality. If the fact that three women are killed every day will not be the main agenda of this House, can we say that parliament is solving Turkey's problems? As a woman MP, I say hundreds of NGOs and the call of millions of our people -- the same call -- we want the killings that took violence and violence against the woman to be discussed in the House with a special agenda. Don't be so insensitive to this problem that it's too important to ignore anymore. We have no patience for another woman to be taken away from us, another woman to see violence, and their futures to be blackened.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0064par0286	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0066par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Women's murders, which now become a kind of hybrid, are, unfortunately, increasing day by day rather than diminishing. In the past 2020 alone, at least 284 women have been slaughtered by men, while 255 women have died suspiciously. Women's organizations, female activists have been trying to draw attention to the oasis of the situation for a long time. More than 500 women and women's organisations are fighting together, and the ESIC platform, which has launched this week, invites us, the Assembly, to carry out their duties and responsibilities in the face of this emergency, only to hold a special hearing on the agenda of women's murders. Women who remind us once again of our duty to control the contract under the 70th article of the Istanbul Convention say, "Why is the parliament silent against these killings?"
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0064par0289	Mr. Imir...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0067par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, there is no day in our country, as my other female paralegal friends say, that a woman is not murdered by men. When it's clear that this is a form of cross-breeding, all the public sentiment we've been doing against women for a long time, all the press statements we've done have always been asked to suppress with bans, violence, but women's murders and sexism have now become the most fundamental problem in society. Millions of women are inviting our citizen's council to rally against her on an urgent agenda to prevent violence against her. And as a member of the House, I remind you that I call on the House to prevent any violence against the woman and to serve against the sex abuse.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0064par0292	Mr. Bankoglu...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0068par0293	In recent days, more than 200 villages and many neighborhoods in my city, Bartin, have had eight days of power outages. When the power went out, our citizens couldn't warm up, they were dehydrated. Just because of the snowfall, we cannot accept such a long-term electrical problem in 21st century Turkey. Electricity is provided by private companies, but investments that have been expected for years must be carried out. No excuse for bad weather or lack of personnel. The inspections had to be done before the conditions got worse. The interested company must pay the compensation of our citizens immediately. The Ministry must carry out its responsibility and investigate it quickly so that it does not relive the unbecoming scenes of Bartin.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0064par0294	Mr. Ersoy...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0069par0295	Mr. President, 300 women were killed in this country in 2020. 171 women were found dead in suspicious circumstances. The number of shelters in Turkey is only 145. Women call from every aspect of life on different platforms. The Women's Defence Network demands that a shelter be opened in Ankara. The ESIC platform calls to the Parliament: the council says to do the job, to prevent women's murders, sexism, and violence against women. The women's call comes from here, we call as women: let 6284 apply, the Istanbul Convention apply, and the women's killings end. The House must be met with a special agenda on this matter.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit01spe0064par0296	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0064par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 41st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament have been relocated to the Plan and Budget Commission as the main commission, as well as to the National Defence Commission (2/3298) as the main commission, as part of the Plan and Budget Commission, by Ankara MP Levent Gök as the main commission. It's for your information. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 26/01/2021 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. It has been suggested by Isparta MP Aylin Gutler and 19 lawmakers to overcome the issues of transparency in the vaccine distribution that our country is currently facing, that talks should be met in 26/1/2021, before other proposals for parliamentary investigation, which are given to the chairman of the Turkish Parliament in order to investigate the reasons for the government's lack of vaccines and to develop solutions and to clarify the claims of profiling the vaccines on Tuesday 26/1/2021. On behalf of the Isparta MP, Mr. Aylin Gutsy... Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0070par0017	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Last year, January 30th, that was a year ago, two days ago. We said, "Come, let's investigate." Unfortunately, the ruling party and its partner refused. Covid-19 has taken 25,210 lives in our country within a year from that process, and nearly 2.5 million of our citizens have fought it, and 2,17,000 people in the world have died from Covid-19, and Covid-19 has been before us as such a major epidemic, and it still is. I mean, you didn't know he was coming here until today, and we did. But what I'm trying to say here isn't that we guessed. I don't even want to mention the name of the system that you raised your hands on and rejected the opposition's motions, but as a result of this system, you're going to reject this motion a little bit later, you know, maybe I can appeal to your mercy by saying this, because your relatives have passed away, our citizens, the people around the election you've come from, your friends in your organization have passed away. Please, with all due respect, vote for the fact that I'm about to tell you the truth, because last year, when we said this was important, we're in a much more grave situation today, much more serious. Is that all we've lost? However, they had social and economic dimensions, every day our tradesmen closed their shutters, our citizens were in a very difficult economic situation, and the longer this goes on, the sooner they're safe, the worse their loss is, the more they're going to die. So, come on, I'll tell you first, accept our motion. They took precautions until the world was inoculated and funded vaccine development efforts, they made deals with different drug companies that developed vaccines because it's known that it's impossible to fight this epidemic without vaccinating and end the epidemic. Thank God the vaccine was found. What vaccine? The debate is another matter, but you need to be vaccinated, dear friends. Not just the amount or the amount of people you've adopted, but everyone in the community must be vaccinated in Turkey. The United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, had failed to control the outbreak as much as Turkey, but while we were dealing with the minus billion-dollar reserves in our Central Bank and the rising foreign currency, they made deals with six different vaccine companies in the United Kingdom, Canada 7 and the EU. They ordered enough vaccines for between 200 per cent and 300 per cent of their population. India has become a billion doses of vaccine production bases and has ordered 2 billion doses of vaccines to the population of 1.4 billion by preliminary agreements. Russia's state-sponsored vaccine has increased its production capacity and solved its problem without needing a company to remove the need for vaccine. We make our own vaccines in eight different centers. Well, there are some memos about that, but there's no telling when it's gonna happen. You said we'd get a local vaccine for Christmas. Look, then you said it wasn't on Christmas Eve, it wasn't April. April, we don't know what April is. Given what's been going on since last year, it's kind of a gray area. You've shut down the clinic. It's been ten years. Unfortunately, when institutions shut down, their memories go together. Point is, you need to turn on the HMD as soon as possible. The World Health Organization says that no one is safe until everyone is safe. It's called the COVAX. This COVAX aims to distribute 2 billion doses at the end of 2021 into 190 countries that are involved in COVAX, and Turkey is not among 190 countries because it did not join COVAX, not included. We ask why. Mr. Secretary came out and said on January 8th: "They're giving 10 per cent of the population vaccine." But I'll tell you, he says he's giving out 20 per cent of the vaccine, not 10 per cent of the vaccine, and he has a deal with COVAX and 7 companies, and five of them have been accepted on a scientific scale. If you call it the vaccine, it is also possible to provide the vaccine that you want by giving the difference. So, why wasn't Turkey involved in COVAX? Why, in the past, in the past, last year, when we say these measures that shouldn't be delayed, do deals here. When you say, "You didn't make them"? You were stalling Turkey with your masquerading stories. After all, you didn't listen to us, you didn't listen to the experts, you didn't listen to the NGOs. Turkey has declared a 50m dose of vaccine deal with a single vaccine and enough for 30 per cent of its population.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0071par0024	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0070par0025	And I'd like to point out that this 50 million doses of vaccines that don't exist will be enough for 30 percent of the population. In these paintings I'm going to show, Turkey is the 66th of the countries around the world in order to find vaccines for its population, and I don't have time to read here -- Ecuador, Malaysia, Bolivia, Thailand, El Salvador, the Philippines, Bahrain is ahead of us. I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, Turkey shouldn't be in this situation. In the end, unfortunately, the terms of the deals with China are still unclear, badel harabul basra. Look, the danger of mutation has arisen in the world. You know what happens if we're late? You know, those people who were vaccinated, the 25,000 doses of vaccine came in, and the allegations that you've been there, you've been there, you've been there, you've been there... look, I've never been there, you've done it with them, you've done it with what firms, you've done it with them, I'm not going there; that doesn't mean we're not going in them, we're going in them and we're going in, but it's urgent that everyone gets vaccinated. Turkey must find its vaccine so that all its citizens can have their vaccines indiscriminately, or once it's destroyed, Basra, there's nothing left to do, dear friends. We had to get 40 million of the 50 million doses of vaccine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm so sorry. May I put you through, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0071par0028	All right, put him through.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0070par0029	With the order of the vaccine from yesterday, you are still at one quarter of the 30 percent you promised, along with the amount you received yesterday. At first, however, Turkey, which had succeeded in vaccinating in the 12th order of the world, fell back to 33. And there are 33 countries here, so let me show you. You know why? Because we don't have the vaccine. However, these 13 million vaccines are only one quarter of 30 percent. Turkey needs 150-160 million vaccines to inoculate all its citizens with at least 70 million of Turkey's 80 million people. You have to do it now, and if you don't, you'll be responsible for it today, in your consciences, in front of the law tomorrow, and we'll ask you. Please accept our motion with your conscience. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0072par0033	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Habip, the Iğdır MP, is missing. Here you go, Your Honor.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0073par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I have made a commitment to the well-being of the PARTI, regarding the problems with the vaccine supply. Indeed, in this pandemic process, although huge responsibilities have been dropped, unfortunately, thanks to the AKP and its small partner, we see that he often does not fulfill those responsibilities, and the research proposals that need to be made are rejected by voting no. Hopefully, all political parties will say "yes." And such a study will be carried out by the Parliament. Look, we're going through a very difficult time, and a very large pandemic is tearing the world apart, and it has a huge impact on our country, and a lot of people are losing their lives. The main way to get rid of such pandemics is to immunize these diseases, but it's also done in a mass and short period of time. But this way, you can control the disease, the virus, or the pandemic, but as far as we're concerned, there's a serious case of sloppyness, sloppyness, failure, failure. Look, the Department of Health about the pandemic process is seriously failing; it can't manage. So when you look at it, you see that there's a whole sense of the AKP government trying to turn it into a blessing, a blessing for its back, and the Health Minister is constantly trying to run the process by playing numbers on the Twitter page about pandemics, just like this vaccine thing. Look, he told us that 20 million doses of Sinovac will come in December 2020. Again, 20 million doses will come in January 2021. He said, "He didn't come." Again, he said 50 million doses of vaccine will be completed by February, but in a few days until February, 3 million doses have arrived. The new 6.5 million doses have come in, but it won't be done again for two weeks, it'll be expected. Again, the BioNTech vaccine... claimed 4.5 million vaccines for the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, but we didn't see them coming. In short, we see that the AKP's power distracts us, distracts the people, distracts the society. I want to make it clear that we agree that the vaccine should be made, and certainly all our people, our society, must be vaccinated, absolutely sensitive to vaccination. But the AKP's government condemns the country to just one vaccine is also a huge mistake, a major failure. Look, even though there are many examples of vaccines in the world, we've only been sentenced to the Sinovac vaccine.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0074par0044	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0073par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. There was also a study of 40 people in our country regarding phase 2 studies of the Sinovac vaccine. The Minister of Health filed his report in a hurry, and it has a 91 percent impact. By God, a study in Brazil found that there was a phase 3 study, and the Sinovac vaccine proved to have 50 per cent of its impact. Now, I'm clear, we agree to be vaccinated, but the fact that you have claims about the country being sentenced to a single vaccine and favourability, the possibility of another 25,000 Pfizer vaccines coming in, and the allegations that they were made to people in the AKP are very serious issues. We have very serious questions about why he wasn't involved in COVAX. Again, there are serious questions as to why 650,000 non-assigned health workers were not vaccinated. So, I say that we, the People's Democratic Party, will say yes, and in this regard, we will give it to our people for the removal of their victims and for the health of society, for the successful execution of this process. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0075par0050	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Burdur MP Mehmet Göker. Here you are, Mr. Göker.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0076par0053	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, this week is the week of the martyrs of democracy. On this occasion, I bless the late Uður Mumcu, Gaffar Okkan, Ahmet Taner Barracks, and many others like Bahiriye Threeok, whom we have lost. And the fact that the perpetrators haven't been found yet is an embarrassment as a nation, at least for me. Yes, lawmakers, it's a motion to make vaccines and vaccines. We're worried about the public. What are we worried about? Because there's an uncertainty. The uncertainty also highlights a concern within its guise, and the anxiety that arises from it is fueled. And I'm saying this especially for this reason, of course you've followed: that we saw him vaccinated in social media accounts without any risk factors -- which today we have declared as a cultural envoy -- when will this vaccine happen to us when people see the person and the artist? How far will the right to vaccinate be protected? The vaccine supply is obviously unreachable. Our predecessors have just expressed that we should have had 40 million doses of vaccines, but the total number of vaccines is about 9.5 million. So, as a society, how many vaccines do we need? This dose is about 130 million when we think that 70 percent of them are able to be immune when they're vaccinated. And do we have that number? No. Temini, does he have supplies? No. The biggest problem waiting for us in this level of inoculation is the mutation that can develop in the virus and the lack of the existing vaccine. Last week, Moderna said that her MRNA vaccine was enough for mutants, but there's no research on whether the Sinovac vaccine we've provided is enough. Let us repeat our call to the authorities: Within a two-week period, these vaccines must be inspected and taken accordingly. Why does mutation matter? Because if the rate of inoculation had gone the way it did in the first day, it would have been 4.5 million people inoculated at the moment, but 1,200,000 people could only be vaccinated, so we're going slow, and that's a problem for public health: the virus becomes more aggressive by changing itself. Therefore, we need to be as energetic as possible and provide supplies for the inoculation. Yes, I said for us, the vaccine must be mutated. Why is that important? Because we connected the vaccine to one country and one firm in the supply chain.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0077par0058	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0076par0059	If this vaccine is resistant to mutations, so if it's inadequate, we'll be completely in the middle. Because we don't have a preconceived agreement with another company in the vaccines. The fundamental challenge here is that, as the motion is involved, we are not members of a system where the COVAX, which includes 190 countries, is that the access to the vaccine is not affordable in terms of economic or order, and we are not members of a system where a collective inoculation is predicted. Therefore, the greatest statement is that none of us are safe until we are all healthy. Everyone must be immunized equally and quickly, and work on this matter must be accelerated and carried out. On this occasion, I support the motion given by the good PARTY. My respects.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0077par0062	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Eskin. Here you go, Mr. Esgin.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0078par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY group against the good party proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly. In our country, we have a great struggle against the global pandemic that the world encounters every hundred years -- state, nation, hand in hand. Turkey is among the countries with a successful report card, unlike many developed Western countries in the fight against the epidemic, led by our President. In November, in December, we have controlled the number of cases seen all over the world and in our country, along with the measures we've taken. We signed a new success story with our heroic health workers by reducing the number of cases 20 times in my constituency, Burma. Our fight against the plague continues, and there is no place for rehab. Turkey draws attention to its efforts to fight the epidemic, as well as vaccine studies. Within three months, we make every effort to apply local vaccines to our citizens. We have also made about 55 million vaccine connections abroad. In the first place, 3 million of these vaccines came to our country, and at the moment over 1,400,000 vaccines were given to health workers and citizens over 80 years of age. According to the group rankings for the vaccine, according to high age, risk and trade groups, Covid will continue our immune efforts with great determination. The issues expressed in the opposition's group proposal, rather than social anxiety or anxiety, unfortunately, contain unrealistic and political polemic elements. Turkey is one of the first countries in the world to start mass implementation of vaccines, among the world's first seven countries to have the most Covid vaccines applied so far. Inoculated studies are applied to our citizens within an exemplary transparency and a perfect organisational scheme. In recent days, 10 million vaccines have been approved, 6.5 million vaccines have reached our country, and the remaining vaccines are scheduled to arrive in our country by the end of March. The Coronavac vaccine, which is currently in practice, has been clearly proven to have 91.25 per cent of the activity and high credibility with the work done in our country. In local vaccine studies, the process continues as expected. As of April, we're planning to move on to the social immunity program in the local vaccine. Dear friends, as I've always said, the virus can't be a political polemic material for any of us. In the face of the global pandemic, the difficult situation for all mankind should never be put into everyday politics. Covidle, our health army, struggling at the front lines, should not be capitalized in political interest accounts.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0079par0071	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0078par0072	The unfortunate polemics of the flu vaccine, please don't make it about no one and nothing else about the Covid vaccine. I salute all of you and our holy nation in the hope that we will all succeed in the fight against the global pandemic, together, in the hope that we will have a healthy and peaceful time.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0079par0074	I'd like to put the good party proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Mr. Tokdemir...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0080par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. As in all Turkey, farmers of Amik Plains are barely planting their fields because of the cost of diesel, fertilizer and seed. When spring comes, our farmers, who should be dropping fertilizer on their fields, are shocked by a rise in chemical fertilizer and a high price increase. During this peak of fertilizer use, the rapid rise of prices has caused our farmers to react sharply. More than 80% of fertilizer prices pose a major threat to agricultural production. If our farmers do not use the needed fertilizer, food prices will increase and the problem will be directly on our table because of the decline of efficiency and production. I'd like to address the Minister of Agriculture here, because of export-dependent imports, it's very difficult to reduce the price of fertilizer, the only way to reduce costs and supply fertilizer at the right price... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...increased fertilizer support. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0081par0081	Mr. Sun... Mr. Keven...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0082par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2020, our farmers, struggling with drought and pandemics, are now struggling with the rise of fertilizer prices. The power of the government, which pays for the dollar, should it not be filled, is not enough for the fertilizer brokers. The price of urethra fertilizer, which is $2,300 a ton, has been increased to $7.40 dry levels, but has been raised to 3,000 liras. In these months when the farmer is using fertilizer, the increase in prices is already killing the poor farmer who is already in a difficult position. To what does the Ministry of Commerce depend on the inverse increase of the price of fertilizer, even though the dollar is down? When will these raises be preceded? The Turkish farmer is asking. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0083par0086	The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 26/1/2021 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 26 January 2021, the general meeting proposal for the end of crimes and violence against women was proposed to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 26 January 2021, before other motions, in which their talks would be met on Tuesday (26/1/2021/21), particularly in accordance with the 10983 group of women's killings given by Siirt MP Deputy Chair Coral Danış Beştaş and İstanbul MP Deputy Chair Saruhan Oluc. Mardin MP Ebrü Günay on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group to explain the reason for the People's Democratic Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0084par0098	Mr. President, our valued lawmakers and viewers watching the screens are a multidimensional form of violence that violates women's human rights, restricts their accession to society, harms their bodies, lives, psychology, especially the most fundamental right to violence against women. The anti-women's policies of the current government in Turkey have contributed to further co-operation in the current problem. Today, we know very well what is the goal of these policies that ignore women in every field, in economic, cultural, social, social, social areas, trying to divide women and seize their will and trap them in the house. These policies target the identity of an organized woman. The mentality that attacks women aims to intimidate and intimidate anyone who opposes them through women. Almost three women are slaughtered every day by men for gender identity, sexual orientation, and willpower. Crimes committed against women, especially women, can only be avoided by the effective implementation of existing laws and the development of policies fighting sexism. The Parliament must take responsibility for this, to set up the budget in that sense. To end violence against women who have reached the level of women today, the effective implementation of the Istanbul Convention is essential, the effective implementation of Law 6284, and the establishment of a women's ministry is now an obligation. Violence against women is committed not only in a private area, but also in public and state institutions. According to the data of women's institutions, in 2020 men inflicted violence on at least 792 women, at least 300 women were killed. In 2020 again, 171 women died suspiciously. Similarly, on the first 25 days of January 2021, at least three women were slaughtered every day by men. The 2020 Global Gender Inequality Index of 153 countries in Turkey, which ranked as 130 percent of the country's countries, has a policy of non-criminalism against women in Turkey, and has been created for men who exercise violence, and the judiciary often leaves the perpetrators without punishment on the grounds of good behavior, rather than preventing men's violence against women. In particular, when the perpetrator of this violence became influential, a public servant or law enforcement force, the judiciary played three monkeys. The absence of the trial of Musa Orhan (Moses) who killed İpek Er (Speek Er) is just one of the most obvious and recent examples of this punishment policy. Dear friends, along with the pandemic process, women who worked under unsecured and underpaid were the first to lose their jobs. Women carrying a huge amount of maintenance work in the house faced multiple-pronged violence, and most of the perpetrators who were released under the death law committed violence again as soon as they returned home. Women's murders, suspected women's deaths, have also increased in the process of sexual and physical violence against women, as well as pandemics, but power has changed the law rather than taking preventive measures; the decision under Law 6284 has been made to apply for women's shelters, asking for a report, seeking shelter only in the city where they live. On the other hand, the removal of violent women's institutions to the target of attacks and the closure of these institutions and the appointment of trustees to our gender liberal municipalities of the HDP have also struck a serious blow to the women's struggle. Because the first job of trustees was to shut down women's centers fighting violence against women and eliminate mechanisms that strengthen women. Again, in any case, fighting to keep our rights won back, standing together against our bodies, against our identities, and not giving up on women's struggles has been the sole goal of us women. At least 3 women are killed every day in Turkey, and this is now a species of country. He called for an echo everywhere. According to this, the ESIC called for an urgent special session of the Turkish National Assembly to discuss measures needed to prevent violence against women and women's murders with all parties and officials and establish policies that should be followed.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0085par0105	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0084par0106	It is likely that the messages containing all the requirements of the ECHIC have reached many of our fellow trustees. So we follow this call, and we repeat here once again the request for a general discussion of this agenda in parliament, so that the measures necessary to end violence against women who have reached the level of women's decomposition will be taken immediately. We're saying the House must be met immediately on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0085par0109	Mr. Arslan Shellcucuoğlu, Eskişehir MP on behalf of the Good PARTI Group. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0086par0112	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group for a parliamentary inquiry motion by HDP (HDP) on preventing violence against women. I salute the High Council. One of Turkey's most important, chronic agendas is women's murders. It's a social obligation to take the most effective measures to stop the killings of women we've witnessed increasing day after day. In 2020, almost one of our women died a day. The legal and preventive measures taken are insufficient. Social measures envisioning equality of women and men must be adopted and implemented by all the partners of the governing body of cultural changes. Violence against women has been discussed in different contexts in most of the settlement results adopted by the United Nations Women's Status Commission, a global intergovernmental organisation aimed at ensuring gender equality and strengthening women. The issue was considered a priority theme in 1998, 2007 and 2013. Turkey was the first government to sign and ratify the European Council's Istanbul Convention on preventing and fighting violence against women on 11 May 2011, but it is difficult to say that our country is fully implementing it, when its requirements and conditions are met. Taking away violence against women and any domestic violence, spreading significant equality between men and women, protecting all victims of women and domestic violence, providing effective cooperation between law enforcement units is one of the principal goals of the Convention. Despite international agreements, legal improvements and policy measures, more efforts must be made to end violence against women in Turkey. On February 7, 2020, I proposed two laws to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. One is the Penal Code, and the other is two amendments to the Turkish Penal Code. I hope they'll be on the agenda and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will have taken a significant step towards preventing the murders against the woman. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0087par0119	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Eskişehir MP Jale Nur Sullü. Here you go, Mr. Sullu.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0088par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the 27th term is my first term as a member of parliament. In the early days when I entered the parliament, I had hoped that a compromise could be reached, leaving politics aside in matters for the benefit of the citizen. I really believed we could do it with good communication. But unfortunately, I learned from experience that it wasn't. In 31 months, I remember that the Republican People's Party, the GOOD PARTY, the People's Democratic Party, had made numerous motions to investigate women's matters. Each time, I testified that he was rejected by the AKP and the MPP vote. There's one other thing I've testified to, which is that no matter what party group it's given us, we've witnessed our AKP MP friends, especially our women's paralegal friends, coming to this stand and telling us how things are going. THE praises of Jehovah's servants cannot be finished. INTERVIEWs, such as the Centres for Anti-violence and Watch, describe how women are protected by the words of zero tolerance in violence, as if women were never killed, as if they had never seen violence in this country. The result: those who agree, those who do not accept, are not accepted, and we are moving on to a new agenda, unfortunately, but women continue to be violent and murdered in Turkey, unfortunately. Each one's name is left in the pages of newspapers or media archives, which have faded as numbers. Women who are torn from life are slaughtered by a man and go on to live, leaving behind grieving mothers, fathers, and, most of the time, motherless children. I'm really curious about one thing: What do our fellow lawmakers who vote "no" think when they see a new woman's murder or violence on the news? That's what I'm really curious about. (Applause from CHP rows) Are they saying, as the Minister said, "No, no, this is not a murder of a woman who enters our women's murders." Or do they say, "It's on the outside, men can kill women, it's on the outside, it's on the outside." Men kill women, but do we forget? We don't forget, we can't forget, we can't just walk away and do other things. Look, for days now, we've been following the call of the Women's Platform for Equality, and artists, women, men, the General Assembly are calling a meeting with a special agenda on women's murders. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0089par0128	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0088par0129	Thank you. The General Assembly has not met for six months, my dear friends, to call us for a meeting, let alone about the cross-breeding of our country. I'd like to make it very clear from here that I'm calling a meeting of the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission -- and the President is here, I think. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, don't you feel responsible for women's murders? What did the President say? He said that if a sheep were lost on the banks of the storm, I would be responsible for it. Let Mr. President be responsible for the lost sheep, but we, the 584 members of the General Assembly, are responsible for the lives of every person living in this country, whether it be a man or a woman. If you really feel that responsibility, please come, let's make a fresh start today. Let's all say yes to this proposal. What does it matter which party gives the motion? Is your life the politics of women? For once, by listening to the voice of your conscience, please vote yes to this motion.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0090par0134	Let's salute, sir.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0088par0135	I'm completing it. Thank you. Give it to me so that women don't die, as one heart, we all show our congressman's responsibility together. Give them the vote so that women will no longer be killed in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0091par0140	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Edirne MP Fatma Aksal... Here you are, Mr. Aksal.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0092par0143	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. A woman thing is a human matter above all else. Violence against a woman whose national and spiritual values are never compatible with our country is seen as a crime against humanity, and its principle of zero tolerance against violence is being fought. In 2012, a significant distance was recorded in the fight against the woman as the Law Against the Protection of Family 6284 and the Protection of Violence Against Women took effect. By Justice and Interior Ministrys, units specialised in fighting violence against women have been established by the generalities issued for the effective implementation of Law No. 6284. A total of 145 women's guesthouses have been served in 81 counties for our women who have suffered violence, including 110 of whom are members of our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. Hello, 183 Support Line and KADES have been presented to the service of women and children who are at risk of violence. I can count for hours here what was done to prevent violence against women during 18 years of AK PARTI rule, but if we're going to prevent violence, harassment, rape, we need to be sincere first. I invite all of our MPs to be sincere. I especially address the CHP's women MPs: You will not play three monkeys every day when there are harassment and rape cases in your agencies.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0093par0147	You're gonna have to listen to a little bit of what we have to say. You will call a meeting with KEFEK, as the head of the camp. You're not only the president of the CHP, you're the president of the KEFEK.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0092par0148	When it comes to HDP, the last party to take the woman to the mouth is HDP.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0093par0149	You'll call, you'll pick, you'll see. You don't have to insult us every time you go out.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0094par0151	Mr. Kadıgil...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0092par0152	The mothers of Diyarbakır have been standing guard in front of your Diyarbakır province for five hundred and twelve days. I'm asking you from here, is there any greater violence than taking a mother away from her child?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0095par0154	You ripped it off, you. We didn't rip them off, you ripped them off. You sent those kids with war policy.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0092par0155	While your own children are traveling in Europe, you smuggle poor Kurdish children into the mountains by the hands of your organizations and attract PKK terrorists to follow them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I say we will continue our struggle in our country and in the world, especially until there is no more women who have suffered violence, and I salute you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0095par0159	Are you going to fight this head?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0097par0161	Mr. Beştaş, why did you demand your word?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0162	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0097par0163	About what?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0164	The last party to talk about this is HDP. He said, for example, about women's rights.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0097par0165	I give you my word, two minutes from the stand, no taunting. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0167	Mr. President, honestly, I don't respect that kind of courage. Well, I see that as a lack of courage, first of all.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0098par0168	It's you guys.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0169	The party has increased the number of women in Parliament and municipalities in the history of the Republic, HDP. You're gonna have to stop and think about it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0099par0171	Why are there posters of terrorist heads in your HDP district presidency? Why do you have PKK posters in your district heads?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0172	We answer to women's rights, we don't answer.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0099par0173	Why are there posters of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in your district? Why are there posters of terrorist heads?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0100par0174	Please excuse me.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0175	We're just smiling at people who don't have the words to talk about women's rights and tell the same story all the time.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0101par0176	Talk about self-defense.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0177	We're just smiling, that's for sure. That's why if you have something to tell us here, we demand a general meeting.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0102par0179	I'm laughing at you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0096par0180	Let's talk women's rights here one day. It's a challenge, let's talk about the woman. Why are you running away?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0103par0181	Why do you have PKK posters in your district heads?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0104par0182	Mr. Light, if you have any requests, I can give you my word from the stand.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0105par0183	Give it to me.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0104par0184	I'll give you one, okay.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0106par0185	I guess you'll have to extend my time.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0104par0186	Go ahead, I'll pass it on. Here you go. Please listen to the speaker. I'll give my word to anyone who desires it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0107par0189	Every time we talk about women's rights, your terror chorus comes in. And today you told me about the mothers of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0108par0190	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0107par0191	I'm singing from the stand. The mothers of Diyarbakir are our mothers before you. I talked to them about it. I talked to them, I talked to them, and then the police went and threatened them in a tent, so how do you talk to the HDP MP?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0108par0192	That's a lie.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0109par0193	You're lying, you're lying.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0110par0194	That's a lie.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0111par0195	Congressmans, especially female congresswoman friends...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0112par0196	We know that, we know that. I've lived it. Look, I went and talked to them for ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0113par0197	By making a sign of victory for your Regents...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0112par0198	Stop making a question of political abuse of the feelings of the mothers of Diyarbakir. We're the ones fighting for those kids to come back. We're the ones fighting for peace, but you're the ones fighting the war, killing them.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0113par0201	Where's the sign of victory for the mother of Diyarbakir...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0112par0202	Let the whole of Turkey see this.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0114par0203	He sees it, all of Turkey sees the PKK posters in your district presidency.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0115par0204	Yes, please complete your promise.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0112par0205	Except you're trying to keep me from talking like this, and you can't do it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0116par0206	Yeah, you're talking.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0117par0207	You're lying.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0112par0208	This isn't A News. This isn't A News. This is propaganda day and night. You've had the mothers of Diyarbakir sitting there for years with a special setup. You've been sitting there for years, but you've been operating to kill those kids. It's a shame! It's a sin! We said, "Come, let us talk peace to the Parliament, let the mothers come, let all parties meet." We will be the first to have this meeting, and every day there will be provocations for them not to talk to us. Do you know what happened in the last incident? The press conference is being held, A Haber, Anadolu Agency and cameras aren't going up to watch the economic meeting, they're lurking there, they're filming with curses, they're filming cameras, and our Regent is signaling victory for power, not the mothers. Don't twist it, don't twist it, you'll fall for it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0118par0210	Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0119par0211	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0118par0212	Mr. President, during his speech on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, the Republican People's Party expressed their insincereness (from the PARTI desks, "Right. ") later made false accusations. This is for teasing, Mr. Jale Nur Sullü sir.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0119par0213	Here you go, Mr. Sullu. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0215	Now, I've already told you at the beginning of my speech, and we're used to listening to it. Look, I'm telling you, in the process where I've been a 31-month MP, every time this woman comes up, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has done such a good job, this job has been done for 18 years. Well, the result, my friends, is that if it's done so well, why are three women killed in Turkey every day? First give us an account of this. (CHP and HDP clapping in rows) Ha, now that you've said something, there are certain issues you've been taking refuge in for years, no one believes these stories anymore.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0119par0217	Address the general council, Mr. Sullu.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0218	Behold, I say: O Lord, thank God you have found two or three subjects, and now you hold on to them. There's nothing you can hold on to. It's all your fault, it's all yours. The blood of every woman killed in this country is on your hands. None of you are doing anything about it. This is a matter of terror, two or three people...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0121par0219	All over your agencies...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0220	So do you. Look, guys, if it comes down to your rapist, my rapist, there's gonna be a lot of dirt here. Look, I'll tell you again, a lot of dirt will come out.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0122par0221	Don't be shy, bring it.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0222	With a few isolated incidents... We don't defend them. Before you ask us to account for those events, the Ensar Foundation will be fine once. Ask your minister about the account. Ask him first.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0123par0224	Your parents weren't accounted for.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0225	Look, we don't give a shit what you say. The whole community sees it. Make yourself comfortable. Women will teach you the lesson, women will teach you the lesson in the chest, young people will teach you the lesson, and the families of murdered women will teach you the lesson.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0124par0227	We'll defend the women of the CHP too, I hope!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0228	Well, whatever you say, we don't care. Look, I'll tell you what, our friend who's getting out of here and talking...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0125par0231	Thank you, Mr. Sullu.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0232	One moment, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0125par0233	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0234	Look, our friend who got out of here, our AKP MP, our female friend, is a member of the Women's Early Opportunity Equality Commission, and he hasn't collected this Commission in six months.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0126par0235	The president.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0127par0236	The president.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0237	I'm the president, sorry, the president, and I'm the vice president. We're calling it in, we'll send the petition today, so pick it up. You went out and gave us statements, and we watched them all, and there's no one here who's been molested, where they've been molested. You gave them to us on the support channels.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0128par0238	Your congressman told you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0239	... But unfortunately -- all AKP MP friends should also know -- that you have removed the dear Canan Kalsın, who is really sensitive about these matters, who stood firm behind the Istanbul Convention, and you have brought Fatma Aksal. (Applause from CHP rows, AK PARTY rows) Why? You're afraid, you're afraid of the Istanbul Convention, you're afraid of 6284...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0128par0240	We passed that law.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0241	... You fear that men's sovereignty will be destroyed in this country.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0129par0242	Yes, thank you, Mr. Sullu.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0120par0243	Don't be afraid, don't be afraid, in our power we will solve all of this, we have the solution to everything. You're going, you're going.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0130par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0129par0246	Mr. Mush, before I give you my word...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0131par0247	Mr. President, our friend wants a word.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0132par0248	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0129par0249	...I said today, especially because it was the first General Assembly of Parliament in 2021, that I would give our fellow women's MPs the right to speak in a positive way.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0132par0250	Yeah, I do.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0129par0251	But I feel terrible about what I've seen. Because I've seen the woman get violent here by the woman. (CHP cheers) I'd really like to ask our female friends first to respect their own sex. We're especially warning our boyfriends who are interfering with our female friends talking on the stand.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0133par0252	Mr. President, he wants a word, Oya Eronat.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0129par0253	Ma'am, Congressman, please, I beg you very much, you're interfering with the speakers and you're interfering with me. I'm asking you, if you want to talk, if you have such a request, please let me know, I'll promise you as much as you want on the stand, but you don't let anyone talk on the stand, and you're always interfering. I promise Oya Hanım, don't worry, but first I promise Mr. Mush. I'm in favor of each of my friends using this bench freely. I beg you to let the friends who speak on this stand express themselves freely. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0256	Mr. President, you're holding these mothers of Diyarbakır with a setup and a threat. As such, Mr. President, we have a request from here according to 69.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0129par0257	Here you go, Mr. Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please let's end this before we get into a new mess.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0260	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made the necessary statement regarding this inquiry motion. Dear friends, as soon as ideas are appreciated, of course we'll talk about our own policies from the podium. What are we gonna tell him? We'll tell them what we did. For 18 years, we've talked about what we've done, and you've told us other things, and the result hasn't changed. Thus, the power will reveal the good things it has done. Now, you tell the same stories. When you say the same things, you hear the same things, you hear the same things. Look, we don't keep anyone in Diyarbakir with no threats or blackmail.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0135par0264	You offered me money! You offered the families $10,000. You offered money to families, you offered money to families.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0136par0265	You didn't stop anyone in front of your mayor's office one day.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0266	Notice that those mothers are not in front of our mayoral presidency, they are not in front of the mayorate of the GOOD PARTI. Note that there are more than 80 political parties in Turkey, not theirs, but theirs, and how the children are being taken away.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0137par0267	Saturday's mom's kids...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0138par0268	You didn't stop them for an hour!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0269	...look, fellas, you're gonna get caught up in this, so it's your job to give the answer to the public.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0138par0270	You couldn't stand Emine Şenyaşar for an hour!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0271	So we're sad to hear about how those young girls were abducted into the mountains and the reports of the police that there were blood-soaked terrorists.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0138par0272	You offered money, money, families.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0273	Look, there's no point in watering this down when you're supposed to object. Those mothers will win, those who stand against them will lose.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0138par0275	Peace will come to this country. In spite of your war policies, peace will come to this country.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0276	Look, let me tell you something, dear friends. Everyone's given their opinion, and we're giving ours. Look, here's Ensar...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0139par0277	Eight hundred twenty-six weeks you've been in the way of your mothers on Saturday!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0278	Guys, don't shout. The truth...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0140par0279	You couldn't stand Emine Şenyaşar for an hour!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0139par0280	You judged the mothers!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0281	Look, dear friends, I know the truth hurts and makes you scream. These might make you scream. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0140par0282	You couldn't stand an hour, and you couldn't stand a mother for an hour.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0141par0283	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0284	Here, look, the speaker who was just here, returning to our ranks, there's nothing wrong with the one time, the Ensar Foundation incident... [[Didn't you say from the CHP rows?]] Look, did he receive the most severe punishment, the defendant there? He did, he's been arrested. Look, why am I saying this? Today you face trials.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0142par0288	All those against you in prison...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0143par0289	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0290	You've been tested, you've been tested, you've been tested. Now, are we going to put the whole Republican People's Party community in the same boat? It's not.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0144par0292	You shouldn't.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0293	Then, well, there's been an incident, the Minister's decision not to condemn a community over an incident. You've been twisting the word here for years. That's not true, guys. Then, look, you will suffer the trials you face today. The government that signed the Istanbul Convention is the government of the EC PARTY, my friends, the government of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0145par0296	But you're the one who wants to move it. You're trying to lift it!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0134par0297	Therefore, according to Turkey's needs, the EC PARTY government, which also makes 6284, is the government of the EC PARTI, which hardens these sentences. (EC PARTY Applause) It is the EC PARTY government that increases the deterrent of child intervention. Society is dynamic, society develops, society develops expectations; culture changes, sociology changes, technology develops; it has to make new changes, friends. Life isn't stable, life is very fluid and fast, you have to act accordingly. Legislature is part of it. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0146par0300	Mr. Eronat, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0147par0301	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have said that the mothers and families who live in front of the HDP district of Diyarbakır are being forced to sit down. Now, a father used the following phrase: "Which party has a tractor blanket removed from the county building? " A tractor blanket was removed from the HDP province building. You know what a father said: this party worked as a military branch of Kandil. We lost our children here and we want them here. Listen to Ayþegül Bicer. At the age of 16, his son is kidnapped, and he makes the kidnapper talk to his mother on the phone; he says: "I have a son. I'm 32. I have cancer. I grew up with my son. I became a mother when I was a child. Please send my son back. On the other hand, there will be one more sweet thing called the so-called commander. We won't send your son to you. Please listen to these mothers, please!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0148par0304	Let him continue, Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0149par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0150par0306	Mr. Beştaş, first I want to know why you...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0149par0307	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0150par0308	What taunt, sir?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0149par0309	Turkey is only in front of HDP province building...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0150par0311	Would you guys excuse me?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0151par0312	Did I lie? Was it a lie? I'm telling you the truth.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0150par0313	Mr. Eronat, I gave you my word, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0151par0314	Give me a minute, Mayor, it's not enough.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0150par0315	If you get bullied, I promise, I'll give you more. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0152par0317	I'm telling you, not here, our precious people watching us on TV. The family was offered $10,000 to live in front of Diyarbakır province building.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0153par0318	Lies! Lies!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0152par0319	I have his document. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] The family of Hamza Adıyaman, who disappeared in Zap Water, was brought and seated in front of it. Let not a ruler who drags his mother to the ground speak to us of the mothers, and let not a ruler who drags their mothers to the ground tell us of the mothers in Gebze. We're always ready to listen to those mothers.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0154par0323	You're not listening!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0152par0324	We're always at peace with them, shoulder to shoulder, heart to heart. It's just an area where the government uses its own propaganda to legitimize its attacks, unfortunately, to exploit. So, the Home Secretary doesn't provide security in this country; he goes, he sits in front of our county building. What a joke! This can only be a joke! I'm talking about a Home Secretary who threatens the security of the entire country. Now, the other one, let me tell you, everything that's said is a lie, a lie! There's a policy on lying. Now, in that sense, the woman. We asked for a general meeting, why do you deny it? Tell me about it. Why do you refuse? Don't three women get killed a day? Don't women's murders happen every day? Now, why is he against our proposal to meet? Let the head of the camp say so. He's got no say in women's business, he's taking it somewhere else with the word "terror." Yes, we say that in Turkey, it hurts women, it costs them their lives every day, they sing another chorus. Come, if that's the case... or you're a party to this crime, you're responsible for every woman's murder.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0156par0329	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0330	A very short word, my place... Mr. President, now, look, Mr. Beştaş, families are just being offered money. I have a document... to share it immediately.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0157par0332	Over there, over there.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0333	Have him print it out right away, figure out what family was offered. Guys, look, in front of the county building...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0158par0336	It's a family statement. Mom's talking. Mommy's talking, Mom!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0337	Calm down, calm down...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0159par0338	Friends, Congressmans, please don't shout.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0339	Why are there police in front of the Ill building? Because you're attacking families, to protect them, where the cops protect those mothers. You don't give them any time off.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0160par0340	That's your job, your job!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0341	How many times did you attack, the cops broke in, protected them?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0160par0342	You've taken Emine Şenyaşar....from the front of the party building. You are the one who has taken Emine Şenyaşar.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0343	Look, when it doesn't work out for them... look, it's a terrible slander, it's a terrible slander, it's a despicable slander, it's thrown at the mothers there. Why? They're being framed for wanting their children, my friends. And how those mothers were taken, how their children were taken, how their municipal resources were used, how they were abducted into the mountains.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0160par0344	You've eaten the solids. You've received gifts of gold and silver.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0345	People told me how they were wrapped up in blankets over there. What are you talking about, dear friends?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0160par0347	Silver gifts from the city's facilities came to you, and they didn't go to anyone else.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0155par0348	Look, the HDP is involved in this, and he's a political promoter.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0161par0350	I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0162par0351	Mr. President, just one quick thing.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0161par0352	Yeah, I'll just give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0162par0354	Mr. President, I made a promise that he wanted a document; I'll give him the name, they can look into it. I was offered $10,000 to live in front of the Diyarbakir province organization, and I was offered road money.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0163par0355	Write it down, write it down...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0162par0356	Again, the family of Hamza Adıyaman, who disappeared in Zap Water, was brought there, and many of them were exposed. I've actually made a promise not to put these blankets around their tongues, but those blankets, as in every lie, are blankets used for staying there during the hunger strike during the night, and I'm just saying that as a note.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0164par0359	Did you just think of that?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0165par0360	Well, that makes sense. Mr. Ünver...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0166par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 73rd anniversary of the death of Kazim Karabekir Pasha, also known as Commander of the Eastern Front. Karabekir Pasha, who had given up all military duties before Erzurum Congress, has added great power to the national struggle, saying, "I am at your disposal, Pasha!" In those days, we put our lives on the coffee table with Ataturk. The Pasha, who called it, also expressed the courage and determination of the heroic commanders of the Battle of Salvation. He is a historical figure who deserves the title of the hero of the national struggle. Again, he is a compassionate great man who fathers orphaned children at their posts. My daughter Karabekir Pasha, whom we are proud to be his neighbor, remembers him with mercy on the anniversary of his death, and I hereby thank the great leader, Ataturk, and all his comrades. As the Pasha once said in a poem, Turk cannot be intimidated, Turk cannot be intimidated! / If Jahan were destroyed, the Turk would not be intimidated!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0167par0366	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 26/1/2021 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On 26/1/2021, a parliamentary research proposal issued to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (2209 rows no. lu) has been taken ahead of other proposals and proposed that their talks be held on Tuesday (26/1/2021). Republican People's Party will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain the reason for the group's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0168par0378	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Republican People's Party on the rise in food prices. I salute your high council. About a month ago, we took a break from Parliament activities, and then a month later, we moved back to where we were today. What did we do in this month? As members of the Republican People's Party, we asked for the sake of the tradesman, the workers, the pensioner, we went, we made observations in place, and it's really bad, especially now the tradesman is crying blood. We have determined in its place that the measures taken are not the answer to any of the issues. Last week I witnessed the price of eggs in Mustafakemalpaşa, a week ago in Karacabey, the drama of the poor woman who asked the butcher for five lira. We went to Elazığ, where we saw problems with 30 MPs, and the country wept, and the tradesman was finished. However, according to Mr. President, there is no business closing down, and whoever is saying it is making it up." he says. And I'll tell the ruling lawmakers: inform Mr. President of this situation in the field. Look, he left 3,993 tradesmen in Bursa alone, closed his record, so he shut down his operation so that he would never open it again. Your nearly 25,000 tradesmen are now closed for pandemics. But there is no such thing as the ruling party." he says. I say get out of here and see them. And what happened? In the last year, Turkey has been the 1st in the food increase in OECD countries. And it's devastating how these raises reflect on the citizens. Look, we personally went to the market an hour ago and observed it ourselves, and we made a purchase at the grocery store. Now we're going to announce the raise champions here. Look, that egg you see is broken- it's got an 82 percent increase. You see, we broke the egg out of excitement. When a citizen receives this egg a year ago, he can receive only 11 for 12 liras this year; this is the first one, look, let's put it on the first bench. Yeah, the egg couldn't resist. It broke. The second is that the sunflower oil, which you see here, is the color of gold, so the men now take their five litres away when they go to ask for a girl, and it's worth that much; it's got a 52 percent increase in this. Look, these are basic food materials. Let's make this 2nd, without spilling it like this. And the third is cheese. Look, cheese is increased by over 40 percent, of course, according to the type, but this is the breakfast of a family of four -- let's put it on the third place -- when they make breakfast for two eggs, cheese, olives, bread, one breakfast, the price is 7, 8 lira; 4 people are around 25, 30 lira, hit the monthly; 750, 800 lira is just for breakfast. Dear lawmakers only give almost 1/4 of the minimum wage for breakfast. It's not over.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0169par0385	He's got bread, he's got tea.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0168par0386	We don't even add bread and tea.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0169par0387	He's got olives.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0168par0388	Now, this pasta... look, bulgur, pasta, bread was the basic food of the poor. A year ago today, we bought that pasta that was worth $1.20 at the grocery store an hour ago. Here's the receipt, $3.60. Look, if a family of four only ate pasta, almost 1/3 of its budget goes to pasta. This grocery bag we're going to carry with our little finger is $70. Think about it, it's afternoon, it's evening... there's no meat in it; there's no salami, no sausages, just the numbers that poor people go with cheese, bread, olives. But what are you doing? Today, NGOs have made a statement, saying that if this food prices go on, this life can't go on. Good. Turn on the TVs, we're listening to this from morning to night:
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0170par0390	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0168par0391	A product with a dollar in it comes to $5 in the market. So the farmer gives it at a very high cost and without profit due to input costs, but the last user consumes it at an abnormal price. Brother, you're the lawmakers of power here, so who's taking the wrong turn? Is there any chance that everyone will come forward and complain and settle this? If you've been in power for 19 years, if you can't pull it off, let's get it over with. It's that simple. (HPP clapping in rows) The citizen can't get along, and the citizen commits suicide by writing work on his hand, food on his hand. Dad hangs himself in the bathroom because he can't buy his kid pants. Because she can't pay for electricity, the mother heats up her child's room with the dryer because she can't pay for natural gas, but you come out and say: "There's no store closed." I'm putting it in the conscience of our great people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0170par0394	Mr. Fahrettin Yoshüstü on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0171par0397	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you with respect and love. With the pandemic process, food products have now become strategic products in the world and in our country. All nations began to develop various studies, programs on food products. In the meantime, in our country -- let's not eat -- let's not eat -- let's not have any land left behind. Our President has instructed us to sow, encourage our farmers to plant, encourage us to plant. The Minister of Agriculture said, "If necessary, we will take the ones that are produced in their place." They gave good news that they would be able to buy in their place, but they disappeared in the same days as written in the water. Since then, it's been almost 11 months since the pandemic process came to our country. When we look back, there's no question about our farmer's well-being, there's no question that our farmer's legal rights are even more limited to our farmer's rights, the other way around. In 2020, the amount of grants remained the same in 2021. It turns out that as he always does, the power still looks cross-eyed at the manufacturer, the farmer, the peasant, the feeder. Now, when we look at where we've come from, there's supposed to be an Agriculture Bank for our farmers, supposedly for our farmers, for our feeders, but let's see, these organizations have become loan sharks, these institutions have become the nightmare of our farmer, our feeder, our producer. Is it possible that such a government institution could have seized their land during a pandemic like this, impounding their tractors? While the farmer waits for the support he deserves from the government, the farmer continues at all speeds with a cross-eyed look at the farmer, the manufacturer, as he seeks a cure for his problems with the pandemic process. And the manifestation of the understanding that ignores farmers and ignores producers today -- a fact that we all live in -- markets, malls...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0172par0401	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0171par0402	The result of our farmers' neglect, our manufacturers' neglect is reflected in our markets, our shopping malls today. The farmer doesn't win, he loses. What's the consumer doing? The consumer buys food products at exorbitant prices. Now markets, malls change food products' labels every day. What's the power doing? He's watching. What does the Minister of Agriculture say? Sir, it's a global problem, it's not our fault. Wait until May, and the prices will drop, he says. Who will defend and defend the rights of a citizen in a country where such a minister is such a cross-eyed minister? Today the manufacturer loses, the consumer loses. Who's the winner? The brokers, loan sharks, protected by the AK PARTY. Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0172par0404	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Tulay Hatimlari Oruç. Here you go, Mr. Fast.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0173par0407	Mr. President, the valued MPs have caught the first in the world's rankings of the consumer and food crisis in Turkey. Yeah, we all know there's an economic crisis in the world. And speaking of the reflections of this economic crisis in our own country, there is a huge share in the policies that have been carried out to further deepen this crisis. Of course, the radical solution can never be the way the capitalist system puts capital at its center; the solution is to establish a new world order that puts man and nature at the center; we are all aware of it. But in this country, hunger, poverty, the need for dry bread, now the need for vaccines, pre-masks, has gone through the roof in this period of power. Look, they ask the President, and they say, "Everything has been raised from egg to oil, what do you say?" What's his answer? He says, "We'll figure it out." How do you solve it? Haven't you been running this country for 19 years? If the country has become like this, we'll take care of your share. You say, "We'll take care of it." And again, as the President instructed interest, take interest. Now lower the price of food prices. There are indeed statements that are being made to a comical level that we will no longer find any political words. Again, the Minister of Agriculture says that countries such as China, Russia, India, especially because of pandemics, foods are being stockpiled, and that's why it's expensive. We're asking, undoubtedly, from a place that knows its share in this global system... that there was a food crisis during this pandemic period and that the supply chain would be broken. And you laughed about it. Look, the world is going to a food crisis. Is there anything you can do about it, any project you've come up with? No. All right, well, let's call off the raises. You're saying. In basic food products, the AKP government will go to subsidies and the state will share the cost of the basic foods. Does the citizen say so that he may have more access to the eggs, the bread, the oil? Do you say that? No. Who are you putting the load on? Esnafa. The small tradesman is already sunk, and in this pandemic period, we have a budget for all the country's assets, for the large population, for the hungry, for the poor, for the shopper, for the farmer, for the worker, for whom, not for whom. It was spoken on these platforms, and with the laws that came out of this place, it was decided that the Entity Fund would serve whom, and that it would serve to save large corporations.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0172par0410	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0173par0411	He expects sacrifice from the worker, the farmer, the tradesman, especially the President here. Whereas in this pandemic, when everything's already gone bad, the knife's up to the bone, the street is screaming out at this pandemic period; there's hunger, there's poverty. And if you're eating dry bread from here, you're full. There are lawmakers in power. And what we have to say is that these prices don't fall under instructions. With good planning, these prices will drop, but this power certainly has no such purpose and no such goal. There are 10 million unemployed in this country, minimum wage is $2.825, and you're telling people to do whatever you want! Look, you're acting like the thief isn't guilty at all. He's the homeowner of this country, he's hungry and he's poor, and he's bound to answer to thieves.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0172par0414	Kars MP Yunus Kılıç on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0174par0417	Yes, Mr. President, respected lawmakers, first of all, it's hard to disagree with Erkan Bey's assessment that food prices have increased more against other assets.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0175par0418	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0174par0419	But the important thing is, we all need to discuss why, the moment we look at it together, what's behind it, what's behind it. Friends, if we don't know the facts, there's trouble making some comments: there's about a billion tons of corn in the world, there's about 750 million tons of wheat in the world, and there's around 270 to 300 million tons of soybean production in the world. That's exactly what these financial oligarchy and food monopolys in the world have built their system on. Has there been a disaster, a flood, a famine, outside the world's pandemic last year? It didn't happen. Is there any decline in our production in Turkey last year? No. Sir, has there ever been an increase in our number of people in the world in one year? No. So there's never actually been a reduction in food production in the world last year. Despite the pandemic, countries managed it beautifully, and Turkey, despite the pandemic, was one of the countries in which production and production were best managed to deliver to our people, appreciated in the world, and led this process without any difficulty. And yet, what caused the increase in food prices against other goods and services? Now, that's what I'm talking about, people who wanted to keep production in the world, who wanted to control the world by catching its stomachs, who wanted to build a dictatorship over food in the world.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0176par0422	What do you do? What's your job?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0174par0423	They're about... one firm, half the corn production is in a position to knock down 500 million tons, buy, sell, market. In Egypt, in soy, in oil, look. So they were waiting for this moment, and they were waiting for the process of pandemics, and look, when there was no such problem in the world, they developed a policy that would serve their own ambitions, their desire to gain more. So, look, Russia made a decision: by July, it imposed 50 per cent customs tax against exports of more than 17.5 million tons of wheat. In fact, there's no motive; there's no reduction in production, there's no reduction in stock.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0177par0426	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0174par0427	Friends, China increased corn imports at 135 percent last year. Look, there's been an increase in food prices on the planet -- we don't deserve -- with a sense of protection and manipulation of those who hold this food monopoly in the world.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0178par0428	You tell me what you did. If you could just give me a solution, you'd be an audience.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0174par0429	That's exactly what Turkey has been through. So our manufacturer-- of course, it's like this in fertilizer, sir, it's like this in pesticides, it's like that in other drugs, it's like that in seed. By God, we have become a self-sufficient country in seed, and we are less impressed by it. In others, unfortunately, those who manipulated the world -- Turkey is not possible to think of it as a separate country in the global world -- were affected by this. So, in order to get through this process without more damage, we, the AK PARTI governments, are trying to reduce this burden by continuing to give our farmer the highest level of agricultural support for lowering their input costs, as we've always been. And then there's the consumer size. Today, in its consumer dimension, Mr. President invited the food committee to meet, and he showed us that some research on manipulative causes would be done along with the Ministry of Commerce, and he believes that the consequences will be positive, that they will reflect, and I give you all my deepest respect.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0179par0431	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 26/01/2021 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President 229, 156, 142, 83, 234, 139, 29, 66, 23, 157, 164, 136, 82, 163, 246, 33, 140, 123, 191, 245, 31, 120, 166, 54, 95, 95, 204, 172, and 98, respectively, 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 18, 18, 21, 21, 21, 26, 27, 27, 27, 29, 29, 204, 204, 172, and 98. 26, 27, 28 January 2021 and 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25 February 2021 Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday's merger of audit issues, the discussion of other jobs from the Commission with the proposals of the law," On Tuesday (January 26th 2021), until the meeting of 21/1/2021 and 3/1515, with the reading of President's Office, and the meeting of the talks in the same joint, until the meeting of the 142 rows of Law Proposal, Until the meeting of Wednesday (January 27, 2021), until the talks of Law Proposal 83, were completed. Until the meeting of Thursday (January 28, 2021), until the meeting of the Law Proposal 234, was completed, On Thursday (January 28, 2021) it is Friday (January 29, 2021) at 14 p.m. on Friday (January 29, 2021), outside of the week's working days, in case the negotiations of the law proposal number 234 cannot be completed until further negotiations are completed. It has been suggested that the meeting at 00 should be met and that the issues of control are not discussed in this merger, and that other jobs involved in the Law Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions should be discussed and that they continue to work until the negotiations of Law Proposal 234 are completed. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the recommendation of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş... Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0180par0450	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, the public's main agenda is economics, poverty, hunger. In fact, the government is trying to prevent the economy from talking through the way it's producing all polarizing and targeting politics, but it's also trying to create a positive image by postponing debt and taxes from somewhere else. Now, debts, taxes need to be completely erased, not postponed. We know that there have been tradesmen who haven't been able to open their businesses fully for over a year. The postponement of debts and delaying taxes will certainly not bring any improvement. Now, there's a collection of rent debts, there's a collection of bills, there's debt that can't be paid, there's debt from previous times, and there's tax debt that's worth it. So what we're asking, what we've proposed -- we've delivered in the commission -- is not to delay, but to take an urgent step towards deleting it. The AKP's government now has a truly unintelligible sense of economic governance. Inflation, courtship, interest in the vortex and the economic crisis, which ultimately leads to a rise in needs, continues to rain on citizens. Almost every food substance has increased by over 35 per cent, and the solution is that the grams of the products have been reduced. Every evening, we see hundreds of citizens lining up to buy cheap bread from the People's Bread with tails, and suffering to make the bread cheap. Yes, and now the AKP says there will be a follow-up and investigation against the raises. What does that mean? It's like they're not the cause of the raises. Don't let the public down on this, you're the real reason for the raises, because you don't know economics and you don't admit what you don't know. You've created an environment that requires the dissolution of the competition agency's autonomy. You're trying to adjust the prices today as the insufferable defenders of the free market mechanism. We know what it means to organize prices by the AKP. It means the formation of more tanzime tails or the narch, as the coup d'états do. Not to talk about economics, unemployment, poverty, poverty, corruption, corruption, not to talk about rant, but to say that it's an opportunist from the top to the front, to the public's discretion. The reason for the raises is your legal policies, foreign policy, and the rest of your economic administration and your court regime from the groom. Erdoğan said, "There are no closing numbers. There are no closing numbers." We're calling the AKP President openly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0181par0454	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0180par0455	It is our open call to Erdogan: Let him throw out his friends who have wronged them immediately, because they do not speak the truth. The number of companies closed has increased by 43.6 per cent in weekly figures announced by the presidency's strategy and budget presidency. We're dealing with a president who doesn't know his own report. Yes, and this is the economic crisis, and the crisis that we've had has really had enough of the citizens. And the raises have become a form of governance that has completely increased this poverty, deepening this poverty, and enhancing hunger. I'm saying there's an urgent need to return to a policy that predates 83 million, instead of decoupling debts, deleting taxes and handing out tariffs to supporters. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0182par0459	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Free Special, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0183par0461	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs were in the field when Parliament was closed. They were both on their dorm trips organised by our group, and they were in their own provinces, in the surrounding provinces, and they came back from wherever they went, with serious complaints, problems and so-called phrases, based on the citizen's knife. Mr. President told us today about the problems of the long tradesman, about the problems of the villagers. And as long as we can, if the House wants it to work, then the Justice and Development Party will have to continue to express its concerns to those who expect it from Congress. We are in such a process that the AVMs of huge capital groups are open, breathless, nose-to-nose mines are open, factories are open, the rally is open in Elazığ, or the rally at Giresun is obvious, but restaurants, coffees, restaurants, take all kinds of precautions, inspect it, close it, but we can't stand it anymore. It's called, there's no understanding here. Already drinking restaurants, bars have been closed for ten months, where a different discrimination has been transformed into an intervention in a way of life behind the mind. Serious demands are coming in. Maybe there's a Union of Turkish Travel Agencies that sustains the tourism industry that none of us have ever seen or heard of, TÜRSAB. They requested a meeting, and we went online. We've learned that they have so many problems that there are 12,000 tourism agencies, tiny little ones, 77,000 people working there, they're contributing to 42 sectors when they work, and so far they haven't contributed a dollar. Mehmet Nuri Ersoy protects the elders -- he's big and the companies are big -- but no one protects the little ones. They say: "There are loans that we have taken, and there is no contribution to delaying the loans that we have received with difficulty." Short work grants are for adults, hotels, not for us. When our people go to another sector, they don't come back, there's no help for our people. There's trouble paying off the mortgages, foreclosure, there's no ease in that. Act 5902 defines emergency and disaster situation. The borders are closed, there are no tourists, there are no planes, there are no flights, and if we don't get involved in these emergencies, then the Emergency Co-ordination Board will ask the Minister of Tourism and TERSAB, what day is it going to be? And they're complaining that there is a fire in the commercial industry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0184par0467	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0183par0468	A praying tourist in this area said: "If you speak our voice in parliament, please try to preach, see that the Minister has taken care of the elders, doesn't think of the minors, and thinks of us as bees. " No flowers this year, no honey, but if you can't protect the bees, if you don't put at least a bowl of sugar water next to their hives, if the bees die, there's no honey. Here we say once again the importance of supporting 42 sectors, saving 12,000 people's businesses, taking over 77,000 employees, inviting you to the public's agenda, not yours.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0184par0470	I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Gökcal...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0185par0472	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it really means a lot to us that the chairman of the Parliamentary Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission has expressed the country's food inflation. So for years we've been saying that agriculture is running out in Turkey, that if agriculture ends in Turkey, the need for food will grow, that we won't get food cheap, that our country will be a victim. From where we are today, food inflation is rising in the world and in our country, and our people are having trouble consuming it. The only culprit is the AKP's government, which has ruled this country for 18 years, programmed agriculture and failed to support agriculture enough, is the importer's mentality. They've expressed themselves here, that we can't reach food in the country with importing mentality, that with the drought of global climate change and increased input costs in this country, the farmer's finished, he's finished, he won't be able to reach food. We're attracting the AKP's attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit02spe0186par0476	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0186par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, under the decision issued, we will begin negotiations with the Constitutional Court of Presidentship under Article 92 of the Constitution. (3/1515) I'm having the main presidential counter read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The United Nations Security Council resolutions adopted since 2008 on the acts of naval bandits and armed robberies in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, the Gulf of Aden, the Gulf of Aden and the Gulf of Somalia and its gaps, the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council, which have been adopted since 2008, and Turkish Armed Forces for a year under its 1056, 984, 1008, 1054, 1082, 1136, 1179, 1179, 1207 and 1241, were granted a year's mandate to discuss the naval elements of Turkey's Grand National Assembly and 934 decree that the Turkish flag was issued for a year, and that the Turkish flag was being carried out in connection with the use of international security and armed acts of armed robbery, and the act of terrorism, which resulted in an act of terrorism and an act of terrorism and terrorism. The UN Security Council's decisions, which continue to take place in the areas of which it is remembered, have been extended for another 12 months, with resolutions dated 4/12/2020 and 2554. In this scope, the Turkish Armed Forces have extended the terms of their sea elements to the Gulf of Aden, Somali land waters and deficits, 10/2/2009, and to be extended one more year from the day 934 to be deployed in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, and to contribute to the last 5/2/20 and to the war against terrorism in the sea, as well as to ensure that our countries of the Turkish National Assembly (1241) will be authorized by 10/2/20, and that they will be authorized by the President of the Constitution, in accordance with the principles and fundamentals of the Constitution, which are referred to be given over 10/2/20. I'm going to open a meeting on the Presidential Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'll make a promise to the groups and to two members on behalf of the individual. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for the groups and ten minutes for the individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who took over Tezkere: Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin, Kayseri MP İsmail Özdemir on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Hak Saruhan Oluç on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Çviköz, Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Mehdi Eker on behalf of individuals, Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer, Gaziantep MP Ali Şahin. Mr. Aydın Adnan Sezgin has the first word on the counter now on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0187par0016	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are an undisputed necessity to fight in cooperation with international legitimacy and co-operation with the naval bandits and armed robberies encountered in the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters and coasts, the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. Today, naval bandits, like other non-governmental actors, use advanced technologies and violent methods, and more importantly, are engaged in criminal and armed robberies that put international security and navigation freedom at risk. Sea banditry poses a serious threat to shipping the sea road that carries most of the world's trade on its shoulders. According to various studies, the annual cost of sea bandits to the global economy is between 13 and 16 billion dollars. Armed robberies and attacks in the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters and coasts, the Arab Sea and mujavir regions are one of the greatest risk of naval bandits for global security in this sense. Our country is among the countries in this region that have been negatively affected by the risk of bandits in other areas of the sea. As a matter of fact, we all know that Mozart is the ship that was held hostage by armed pirates off the coast of Guinea a few days ago, whose crew was made up of our citizens. It is stated that the ship has safely docked at the Port of Gentil, Gabon, but unfortunately one Azerbaijan brother among the 19 crew members of the ship has been killed and 15 of our citizens have been kidnapped. I ask God's mercy for our brother who lost his life. I wish our kidnapped citizens to be saved safely and safely. As this recent incident has shown, the battle against sea bandits is a very important challenge. In particular, the risk in the region is extremely high. A Turkish merchant ship, which is connected to Turkey, passes from this region, about 400. In this context, since 2009, our armed forces have been involved in combating naval bandits in the region under UN Security Council decisions. These tasks take their power from international legitimacy, from Security Council decisions. It is a duty for Turkey to contribute to international navigational liberalisation, to help ensure peace, peace and stability in the seas within the framework of international legitimacy. To contribute to international peace and stability is also in line with our republic's traditional foreign policy. We'll support the thesis on that perspective. Dear friends, the Gulf of Aden is also in control of Yemen, where one of the world's greatest human crises is taking place. The battle in Yemen took place long before the agenda of national and international public opinion, as if it had been a forgotten war. The bombings of the Saudi Arabia-led coalition destroyed the country, a regional power struggle between Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Iran, and an approach that ignored civilians. Those three countries are in charge, but there are other criminals. The political and humanitarian crisis, which sparked a violent war, also led radical religious groups to take over various parts of the country. Tens of thousands of people have been killed in the last eight years because of the chaos in the country. According to the United Nations Development Report, three of the five dead are under the age of five. Famine is critical, disease and epidemics have taken hold of its head. More than two thirds of the country needs help to survive. AS with other foreign policies, the AK PARTY has taken the wrong approach from the very beginning in Yemen. In 2015, Mr. Erdogan announced his support for the intervention following a late-night bombing by the Saudi-led coalition forces. He encouraged the Saudis by making a statement in the form of logistical support based on the situation's progress. Rumors of forming a joint army went through the roof at that time. The government, which puts the importance of our history and our geography in its language, has supported those who have turned Yemen into a battlefield, and that is recorded. The sways of the EC PARTI's power in foreign policy make us more vulnerable to our foreign policy dealings with each movement of the pendulum. The pendulum is now headed towards the European Union. The European Union is our most important market and economic partner, despite the occasional danger of our relations for the small accounts of power. Turkey's vision of full membership in the European Union is a strategic choice based on a long history. This vision is also an epiphany of our nation's many years of guidance. Today, public support for our relations with the European Union is also high. In research conducted by the European Union's presidency, 80 per cent of respondents reported that Turkey supports EU membership. If 60 per cent of respondents are involved in the survey, Turkey can become an EU member if it wants to. Turkey has this potential. It has given its answer. These areas are important. It demonstrates public opinion's predisposition to membership in the European Union. Full accession talks must not be withdrawn from the goal of revitalisation. Recently, Foreign Minister Mr. Sergeant has held several talks with European Union officials in Brussels. Following the talks, statements made by Mr. Sergeyoglu appear parallel to the messages and calls expressed by our party on various occasions for months. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has used the expression of their agreement with leaders from the Custom Union to visa liberalisation, from reforms to immigration agreement. The EU has reported that dialogue with the EU will continue exponentially. He highlighted that reforms planned to be carried out by power would surely contribute to this positive atmosphere. In recent weeks, Mr. President has also met with the ambassadors of the European Union and has used his expressions as a country to create a positive agenda with a long-term perspective and restore our relations. These statements contradict Turkey's attitude towards the European Union over the past months, with our insults and aberrations, us-you-discriminations, with its relationship with the European Union into an al-ver relationship, which is surprising. Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Sergeant I wish, of course, that they be sincere in this new course, in the interest of our citizens. But we don't give it much of a chance. The unsubstantiated claims of reforms that power has brought on the agenda have become increasingly corroded by the belief that reform can be done. How realistic can it be to expect such reforms from the only man who's ever moved to authority, even to totalitarianism? The question comes to mind. It is extremely wrong to abuse the European Union in domestic and foreign policy, to follow bilateral rhetoric and policies. It is a fact that Europe has made some major mistakes so far, caused a lack of vision, brought meaningless obstacles to the face of our country on political and artificial grounds, and at times violated values of its own project, but why does this attitude prevent us from doing what we need to do? Turkey will not be able to get rid of its mistakes and double standards unless it can honestly expose our own mistakes, shortcomings, and bilateral attitudes. The European Union is essentially a peaceful, democratic, human rights and prosperity project. Turkey, which is an integral part of Europe, is primarily involved in this democracy and legal geography. Turkey must develop a brand-new vision of its relations with the European Union, but the current governance mentality is far from that perspective, the experience we receive from the practices of power does not give us hope. In a political and legal climate where the Constitutional Court's decisions are not even implemented, where there are categorical appointments for accession to the Constitutional Court, how likely is it that the government will demonstrate a new vision in our relations with the EU? We know that the economic vulnerability, the ineptness and isolation of foreign policy, the prospect of changing balances in the United States with the change of governance, is the developments that have forced power to re-sit at the table with the European Union. The government is looking for a branch to hold on to in this new swing moment. Nevertheless, we hope that wishes will come true and these breakthroughs can be made. We have made it very clear and very clear that we will support your breakthroughs in human rights and democracy without hesitation. As far as democracy, rule of law, freedom of human rights and expression, equality of men and women, transparency and accountability, our relations with the European Union will be restored. There is no contradiction between the adoption and implementation of these universal values and the defending of our interests. On the contrary, we'll have a stronger hand in defending our national interests. The EU accession process has thus far been a positive function for our relations with other parts of the world, and our relations with other geography have served our economic interests. As Turkey progresses in the accession process of the European Union, it will also become an attraction for its region and other geography. The importance of the European Union and the customs union can be estimated to be even greater in the coming process. The new government in the United States plans to revive the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, including investments with the EU. This partnership, otherwise known as TTIP, is a project to establish a customs union between the EU and the United States, including extensive investments, and will bring together the two largest economies in the world. If this project happens, the biggest market in the world will come out. It is important that the EU and its customs union, Turkey, also participate in this project. In terms of mutual interests, our current customs union with the European Union must be updated, deepened and improved. The main need of Turkey's indivisible Europe, our geography and transatlantic relations is a reform process in line with European values. With the successful implementation of such a process, a strong guarantee will also be provided against deterrent trends from the values of law and democracy. The negotiation process is essentially a transformation, change and regeneration process. It means access to the highest norms and standards available in democracy, in law, in human rights, in economic and environmental issues, in health, in the protection of consumers, in education. After Turkey meets specific European Union standards socially and economically, membership will become a secondary goal. It helps our country and our nation to uphold these standards above all else. Although full accession talks do not progress, we must continue in democratic reforms and harmonisation in all areas. If we can do that, our country will become a model in both Europe and the Islamic world, a constant in the most turbulent areas in the world. Dear friends, the suffering of our brothers and sisters of the Uygur who have suffered a great persecution in East Turkistan for many years under the pressure of the corrupt Chinese regime continues, unfortunately, the insensitivity of power. During his prime minister's term, Mr. President, who described 12 years ago as genocide against the Uygur Turks as genocide, unfortunately today is far from daring to approach China and seek material gains. Or are our Uygur brothers supplying the negotiating table to establish some relations with China? Do not consider the last judicial agreement with China a means for the extradition of our Uygur brothers in our country. (APPLAUSE) Some try to explain their silence about the Uygur Turks by avoiding being an instrument of US-Chinese competition. Friends, there are millions of relatives, millions of people with whom we speak the same language, suffering so much, the excuse not to butter the bread of the United States remains too light, it is shameful. I assure you, you will be deeply embarrassed by your attitude tomorrow. On the other hand, it is unfortunate that the European Union Commission signed the European Union-Chinese Investment Agreement while international media carried out a genocide in front of the international public. If the European Parliament wants to demonstrate its sensitivity to human rights, it must return by not ratifying this agreement. I salute the General Assembly. My best wishes for 2021.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0188par0036	Kayseri MP İsmail Özdemir on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0189par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on behalf of the President's Office, which has been sent to our Parliament to deploy our troops in the Gulf of Aden, Somali territorial waters and open areas of the Arab sea and mujavir region. I salute our Veteran Assembly with love and respect. Barbaros Iştin Pasha, one of the world's greatest naval commanders and sailors who served as Captain of Turkey for many years, stated hundreds of years that the one who dominates the seas will dominate the world. Given that today more than 83 per cent of global trade is being done by shipping, it is clear how realistic, consistent, and broadly extended time spans are involved. Although the discovery of the Cape of Hope and the Americas made a difference throughout the historical period, the opening of the Suez Canal, and the beginning of the oil trade by sea following the industrial revolution, increased the value of some areas in global policies for countries. In this context, the Gulf of Aden and the Arabian Sea were at the top of the sea areas that became important in the late 19th century and the 20th century. The Turkish nation is no stranger to these two areas of the sea, which have strategic value. During the period of Yavuz Sultan Selim Khan, the Turkish navy took responsibility for piracy and plundering of other countries in the Red Sea coast and the Arab Sea. Even today, the results and reflections of the efforts of colonial activities on the African continent, which have left almost no state authority, condemning humanity to hunger and poverty, continue. Some armed groups around the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters, and the Arab Sea have begun piracy in the southern part of Africa in recent years. Around 15 per cent of the world's trade and almost 25 per cent of the global oil trade were directly influenced by sea bandits. In 2008, the United Nations Security Council decided that a joint international effort would be launched in order to ensure that the region was safe from the ongoing naval bandits and armed robberies. From the very first moment, our country has been supported and supported by its purpose to contribute to global peace and stability, to consolidate our bond with our love of geography and to participate in these efforts within the framework of our own national interests. At the coming stage, it is important for the Turkish soldier to serve in Somalia, the friend and sister country, which we have never left alone in any period of history and have not left to its own destiny, and it is of direct interest to our country's national interests. The first is the safety of our trade through these ships and our ships that sail through the Gulf of Aden and the Arab Sea. About 20 percent of our trade is made from routes in this region. It is clear that armed groups that have emerged in the region for long periods of confusion in Somalia and surrounding areas, human crises and other reasons, have begun to become bandits in the sea fields between Africa and Arabia, particularly the Gulf of Aden. The piracy activities of several countries have also affected our country, causing its ships to be detained. The security concern in the region also increased the interest of many countries in the Gulf of Aden and the Strait of Babulmendeb. As a result, countries such as the United States, China, France, Italy, and even Japan, which have the coastline from the Red Sea to the Gulf of Eden, have established military bases at the same time. In the same area, Somalia has a long coastline. The presence of the Turkish Armed Forces in Somalia with the Gulf of Aden shall never be ignored because of the distance of geography. In all the geography affecting the global agenda, Turkey must closely monitor and maintain its right to intervene in any development common to humanity. If we stay big with Somalia, we can't be in Africa, if we're not in Africa, we'll be out of play in Europe and the Middle East, and if we don't show our strength in Eden, we won't find peace in the Mediterranean. Therefore, the great responsibility that Mehmetçik is taking on in a field that is, in a sense, the windpipe of global trade, is not only a historic mission, but also a major responsibility for the fulfillment of Turkey's existing national goals in terms of tomorrow. With its responsibility in the Gulf of Aden and the Arab Sea, the Turkish army began to gain more and more experience in supply and logistics, not only in terms of combating sea bandits. It also reflects a successful strategy developed by our country in the region by our soldiers serving in Somalia, training the Somali army and contributing to maintaining stability in the country. That's the second great importance for us. Somalia, who has been struggling with instability, civil war and ultimately terror for a long time, is moving further and further by day, thanks to Turkey's support for all areas. The level already reached by Turkey is that about one third of the Somali army has already been trained by Turkey. Somalia is important for our country to be a visible place for our efforts to bring justice, order and peace to the world. Humane precision and approach have contributed to Turkey's activities in Somalia, the strengthening of state authority and the beginning of institutions, the distance in the fight against terrorism, production and development. The source of the sea bandits depends on the reasons on land. There is no doubt that the removal of these reasons is the main requirement for the success of the fight. That's what our country does in Somalia. Our differences are obvious: our soft forces in Somalia are doing exemplary work in their field of responsibility, and many African countries that follow progress demand from time to time that similar activities take place in their own country. The policies of Turkey, which successfully brought the term "human diplomacy" to the world, which did not just bring help and then leave, but then brought help, are among our proud sources, which led local people to create their own resources. Moreover, the fight against extremism, discrimination and terrorism, which have been tried to become the fate of Africa, could be a precedent for the remaining parts of the continent, as in the example of our struggle in Somalia, and could be a major contribution to our country's African policy. The foot in Somalia, where Turkey prioritizes the peace of humanity, is pleasing to us. Our wish is that these efforts continue, that their coverage expand, that they spread over time to other parts of the world. As I hereby end my words, he says that we support the thesis as the Nationalist Movement Party, and I wish our heroic soldiers, who will serve in the region, great blessings, and with love and respect, I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0190par0051	İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0191par0054	Mr. President, Mr. Deputys, we're discussing a thesis on the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters today. From time to time, you'd think that the issue of international relations in this House was perceived only within the scope of military consultations. When it comes to military operations, operations, there's a great deal of awe over debate, heroic myths, everyone's enthusiastic about each other. Of course, when you say outside policy, military matters come before the Assembly, which are also discussed, but not without discussing foreign policy and international relations, the law, universal principles of law, international democratic contracts under Turkey. So, in short, I want to talk to you about the European Court of Human Rights and decisions under the European Convention on Human Rights, the Council of Europe and its internal institutions, before I mention that I will make a brief reminder of that. Now, look, the European Convention on Human Rights, signed on 4 November 1950 to protect and develop basic rights and freedoms, was approved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 10 March 1954; it has been sixty-seven years. In a resolution dated January 22, 1987, the Council of Ministers granted a personal application to the European Commission for Human Rights, the right to individual application. The Turkish government's statement on this decision was submitted to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe on 28 January 1987; it was thirty-four years ago. The European Court of Human Rights has been granted mandatory judicial authority under Article 46 of the European Convention on Human Rights, with the decision of the Council of Ministers on September 25, 1989; it has been thirty-two years. In 1987, Turkey adopted the European Convention on Human Rights as an individual application to the control process in 1987, in 1989, and thus Turkey was considered an obligation to abide by the final decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in each case they sided with. This Congress did this, and now six people in the Justice and Development Party are listening to it, but this Parliament did it. Now, you're missing arguments because you don't listen to them, but I'm telling the public. The public must know and understand what the European Court of Human Rights decisions, the European Convention on Human Rights, and the consequences of this, should see what it is to not comply with them. Here, I want to ask what these mean to you, but you have no one to answer to. We're not talking about a new situation, Congressmans. We're talking about a long time ago, decades ago, decades ago. On the other hand, Turkey is also a member of the Council of Europe, which was established in 1949 and is also a member of the council. In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there are members of this Parliament from every party. Now, like the Venice Commission of the European Court of Human Rights, the boards are part of the Council of Europe. Don't get me wrong, I'm not here to lecture you on international relations; I just want to remind you of what you've forgotten, or I'm trying to correct what you're deliberately telling the public, and I'm telling you what you don't want to hear. On the one hand, you will say that the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. You will say that the ruling, but on the other hand, the European Court of Human Rights decisions are not binding. There's no life like that. When you yourself go to the European Court of Human Rights, for example, you will wait for your President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to get a binding decision when he leaves, but when the decisions you don't like come out, you will say, "These don't concern us." There's no such thing. You will report to the court that you know the decisions sent by the government, but when it comes to implementing them, you will not do them. Look, political criticism of judicial decisions is, of course, essential to a democratic society order, including the European Court of Human Rights decisions. It's a matter of assurance of freedom of political expression. This is undisputed, but the criticism of these decisions, the disapproving, the disputation of the European Court of Human Rights is not in line with the claim that the decisions are not legally binding. They are binding, and the decision that I disagree with is not binding to me. No one has the right to say it. In fact, some people who use concepts that are not present in the legal literature and the title of the speaker are actually distracting the people, the power and themselves; they're clearly, clearly deceiving the community. Let us remind you: Look, with which mentality and team should we renew the elections in the March 31st local elections, we will get a good result. If you said, "You have lived on June 23rd," the same mentality and team now said to you: "The European Court of Human Rights 2. The apartment decision was made at -2018. Let's take the apartment decision to the Great Circle, and we'll get a better result. The same mentality and the same team worked, and as a result, you came across a much more comprehensive decision. Yes, the European Court of Human Rights decree of the Grand Office, 2. It was a far more comprehensive and harsh decision than the decision the apartment made in 2018. 2. The agency decided that three articles of the European Convention on Human Rights had been violated, and in 2018, the remaining detention period was Article 5/3, and the right to choose and choose is 1. The provision of limiting rights and freedoms by the European Convention on Human Rights of Europe was about Article 3 of the LU Protocol, but the Grand Office decision concluded that 2 more articles were violated in addition to the violation of these 3 articles. Freedom of expression is Article 10 and the violation of arrest is Article 5/1. The Grand Office of the European Court of Human Rights announced its decision on the application of Judeatin Demirtaş, on December 22nd, but also created a drink, created a drink because it was a Grand Office decision. Look, Congressmans, there are 17 judges sitting in the Grand Office of the European Court of Human Rights, and the violations have been made most of the time. In Article 10/3 and Article 18, there is only one opposing vote; the Turkish judge has made 1 to 16 decisions. In Article 5/1, the 46th article, which stipulates the release of Demirtaş, was taken by a vote of 2/15. No. 1. The violation of Article 3 of the Lu Protocol was unanimous. The situation is dire, the numbers are there, and the government has faced a major failure in this regard. The decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are final and binding, according to Article 46 of the contract. The states are obliged to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. This context is not only for certain segments; it is valid for the President, for the Interior Minister, for the Minister of Justice, for all judicial authorities, for opposition parties, for public employees working under the name Communication Presidency, for all citizens in Turkey. I also want to remind you of the 90th article of the Constitution, especially the ruling alliance. The 90th article of the Constitution clearly defines this bindingness. Article 90 of this Constitution states that international agreements adopted according to the law are under law. It cannot be applied to the Constitutional Court on charges of unconstitutionality. International agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms, which have been enforced according to its law, are based on inter-national agreements in the disputes that may be passed on the same issue, on the basis of the different provisions of the law, on the basis of the 90th Article of the Constitution. Where did this stuff come from? Your power brought it back in 2004. In 2004, your power, which says, "These decisions do not concern us," brought the change in Article 90 of the Constitution, and you brought it. Under a draft law proposal, you have the signatures of your Group Vice Presidents and your 193 MPs. Look, open the reports, read the papers, read the reason. So you're saying that we don't really care about the 90th article of the Constitution that you brought in. You've become this, you've become the ruling alliance. Look, without anger, without anger, in fact, the European Court of Human Rights, dated December 22, 2020, was condemned to power by the Grand Office decision, hear this. Not Turkey, but power has been condemned. Turkey has nothing to do with this; your power, your ruling alliance has made Turkey this way. Since this decision has now become a court of law, the decision of the Grand Office will be referred to as a permanent reference to the European Court of Human Rights. You'll take it. You have to correct your own law and believe in the rule of law. It is necessary to fulfill international obligations; it is not to be angry or to seek out side roads through deception. It's hard to put up with, yeah. The Co-Chair of an opposition party you held hostage in prison, the fact that Turkey has violated its rights by the ECHR decision due to your individual application of the Human Rights Court, is not good, you can't explain it to the community, but you created it, your ruling alliance created it, and let's say this: If this is the European Court of Human Rights' thesis of hostility against Turkey, forgive me. Because to think that 46 judges are hostile to Turkey or to treat Turkey is a very strange conspiracy theory, and there is no answer. Besides, you yourself went to the Big Apartment to avoid the Second Apartment decision, which means there's no conspiracy. Now, when we look at the European Convention on Human Rights, and look at the European Court of Human Rights decisions and proceedings, perhaps the European Convention on Human Rights is the only international contract in the Constitution of Turkey, which is also something you do. See, there are various studies, workshops, workshops, workshops, workshops, by the European Court of Human Rights that have been given training by the European Court of Human Rights in Turkey, so when you look at them, they're basically being told to deceive the public to defend that the European Court of Human Rights is conspiring or hostile towards Turkey, to cover up the legalities that you've done. Now, when we look at the decision of this European Court of Human Rights, it's going to take a lot of time to explain these articles to you, but I want to make one of the two very important points: freedom of expression; the 10th Amendment. See, this decision states that there is not enough correlation between Demirtaş's political rhetoric, which criticises government policies, or his involvement in a legal organisation, the Democratic Society Congress, and his membership in an armed organisation, and that such broad interpretation of the relevant Articles of TCK would not be acceptable in Article 10 of the article. They said that the restrictions imposed on freedom of expression were not legal grounds. In the same way, according to the ECHR, the TCK, which orchestrated the charge of membership in Demirtaş's armed organization, has been defined as an unpredictable, uncertain substance, such as political talks. The same opinion is in the Venice Commission's report. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the arrest and the continuation of the arrest are against the law in Articles 5/1 and 5/3, which has been declared by the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, none of the events that led to the arrest of the ECHR (E.H.E.) were met by reasonable doubt in Article 5 of the contract. He said, very clearly, he determined that. ▪ Choosing and Choosing Rights No. 1. Article 3 of the Lu Protocol has been violated. In the same way, there has been a severe violation of another subject and another clause, which is essentially 18. For the first time, Turkey has decided to violate the 18th article. This 18th article is extremely important because the European Court of Human Rights actually states that all cases filed against MPs and all elected members of the People's Democratic Party, all of the cases filed by 2014, 2015, all of the cases sent from 2015, are political conspiracy cases set up by political power against HDP. ▪ All of these are political decisions. The authority is guilty of misdeeds. The European Court of Human Rights has said. It's a very heavy decision, and the situation of the government, which has really put Turkey in this position by this decision, is very grave. Let's stress that one more time. So, in short, there is no question that the ECHR is about Demirtaş and the other judges -- not only the MPs, but also the co-chairs of the municipality -- about the other elected judges. Freedom of thought and expression has been used. No evidence or action to raise strong suspicion of crime. With the removal of immunity, the principle of legalism has been ignored, and it is not predictable. ▪ He has an ill-willed mind. The power affects the judiciary with its explanations, and it is a process that began before June 2015. He registered the lawsuits, as I said, with this verdict, as political conspiracy cases. People's rights, such as freedom of expression, have been violated during a reasonable period of time. This arrest is in violation of the right to be elected and held in parliament, while the AKP government has moved to suppress plurality and limit freedom of political debate. In order for Demirtaş to be released immediately, any measures must be taken by the defendant's state. Demirtaş's statements are political statements, part of freedom of thought and political activity. This decision is final, and there is no other upper authority to apply for it. The situation is so clear and clear. In fact, this decision is a declaration of the destruction of the legal and justice system in Turkey by the government itself. We have stressed it over and over again; we have stressed it in the group talks that we have taken from the council and from the places where we sit, and once again we stress it, we say that Turkey is a country that has signed the European Convention on Human Rights, which has accepted the authority of the European Court of Human Rights. This decision became final and binding on December 22, 2020. The failure to implement the decision would mean a new violation of the rights. This decision directly concerns everyone living in Turkey on freedom of expression, right to organise, law enforcement activities and the right to participate in democratic politics, not just HDP people. This decision has shown that the charges against HDP have been baseless and has made clear the plots against HDP (HDP) in all legal areas and the plots set up today (October 6th 8th) under indictment. Now, look, implementation of the ECHR decisions is as much a legal issue as it is an international obligation. Therefore, when the state of law and legal reforms are discussed in Turkey, it should be taken seriously -- I don't just mean Turkey's domestic policy -- but I also mean the international area -- the government must first demonstrate that it is a legal state by implementing the decisions of the ECHR. No, we're not doing that. If you say that, then you've proved once again that it's not a state of law, it's a state of command. Then you will prove once again that the rule of law is not the rule of law, but the law of the superior. Now, once again, I would like to address the Department of Justice and Justice's Office of Human Rights: Do not create a bigger problem by putting the European Court of Human Rights decisions in any way, or finding side roads. I address the State Department and address Foreign Minister Mr. Sergeant: If you are sincere in your sentences to the European Union, to the European Union on your tours, if you are sincere in what you say about law and justice, then you must take a stance on the implementation of European Court of Human Rights decisions. I address the Treasury and Finance Ministry: If you want to reassure Europe about foreign investments, foreign investments, you must ensure that the European Convention on Human Rights, which Turkey has definitely signed on this basis, act in accordance with Article 46, and in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0192par0076	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0191par0077	Mr. President, I'm completing. With the European Union, with the European Parliament, with the European Court of Human Rights, with the European Court of Human Rights, with the CPT, with the Venice Commission, with all the institutions in Western Europe, but also with all the institutions in which you are trying to be a member of, by increasing insecurity in the legal area, by not implementing these decisions, is not the evil you will do to the People's Democratic Party. The People's Democratic Party will deal with this, but with your actions, you will have done everything wrong to everyone living in Turkey, to the entire Turkish community, because of the problems Turkey will face in such a situation. Once again, we remind you that the European Court of Human Rights has called once again for the immediate implementation of the decision taken by the Grand Office on December 22, 2020. Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0193par0081	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ahmet Ünal Açvikçü. Here you go, Mr. Quickie.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0194par0084	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the esteemed MPs, on behalf of the President's thesis on extending the mandate of the Turkish Armed Forces naval elements in the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters and coasts in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions for another year. I hereby salute the esteemed MPs and the High Council. Mr. President, first of all, I would like to share my deep regret here with the Grand Assembly for the pirate attack of a container ship named Mozart, with a Liberian flag, in the Gulf of Guinea, when sea piracy has been rescheduled in recent days. It seems the pirates haven't made contact with anyone yet. I wish patience to the families of our sailors during this difficult waiting period, that our crew return to our country as soon as possible. We have learned that one Azerbaijan citizen lost his life in the attack on the ship. I wish him God's mercy and my condolences on his grieving family. Dear lawmakers not only risk the lives of our sailors, but they do serious damage to the sea trade. See, according to UNCTAD, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development is carried out by shipping by 80 per cent of the world's trade and 70 per cent of the value. Thus, shipping has become a clear threat to pirate attacks. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the impact of pirate attacks in the Gulf of Guinea alone has reached $818m. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to give you an example of how important this matter is today's agenda. According to a report published by the International Maritime Bureau of the International Chamber of Commerce, more than 95 per cent of the number was reported missing from 135 personnel vessels worldwide in 2020, and more than 95 per cent occurred in the Gulf of Guinea. In 22 separate cases in this region, 130 ship's personnel have been abducted, and this has been the highest level of all time. So with the piracy activities of the Gulf of Guinea and the kidnappings of the crew, 95 percent of all the world's actions, I want to highlight this data specifically. The events were largely earlier happening in the Gulf of Eden, in the Somali region, and piracy activity has been slowly shifting west towards the Gulf of Guinea, west of Africa recently. In fact, it is possible to view it as the success of the struggle in Somalia and the Gulf of Eden and the activities of piracy. In these piracy activities, which have shifted from east to west of Africa, you know, no Turkish ship has faced such a situation since 2010 in the Gulf of Aden; this is important, and I would like to record the success of the last decade on this occasion. Dear lawmakers, the Covid-19 conditions that have affected our world this year have, of course, halted the fight against sea piracy. Marine piracy activity has increased by 24 per cent since previous years, due to the failure to allocate funds due to the country's pandemic. So, for all these reasons, today's agenda actually created an opportunity to discuss a very important problem. I'd like to continue with the information on the dissertation. On December 16, 2008, United Nations Security Council resolution 1851 decided to establish a joint task force, called CTF-151, led by the United States on January 8, 2009, as part of a more effective international fight against piracy, naval robbery, and armed robbery, which further strengthens international legitimacy. CTF-151 also takes its legitimacy from decisions 1816, 1838, 1846 and 1897 in addition to UN Security Council Resolution 1851. Turkish Armed Forces naval elements also serve as part of that power. Now, I'd like to stress from the very beginning that the Republican People's Party will vote positively for this thesis. I'd like to list the reasons why we're going to vote positive in the following way: sea bandits and piracy are one of the common threats that make international solidarity necessary. There is legitimacy provided by UN Security Council decisions. In these areas, neutralizing naval bandits and hacking gangs exceeds the capacity of large states with very powerful fleets, so international cooperation and solidarity are mandatory. On the eastern coast of Somalia, Somali authorities do not have authority on their broad shorelines. The negative impact of piracy activities on international trade and shipping, creating serious threats to life and goods safety, is also a major threat to Turkish ships and sailors who use this sea route intensively, and the positive contribution to world peace and stability and measures are of great importance to our national interests. With this thesis, we show that we care that Turkish warships in the region participate in Turkish commercial ships' security and joint combat operations against sea pirates. So I'd like to say once again that we're looking positively at the thesis from the top. Dear lawmakers, let's come to other foreign policy issues on the agenda. Today is the first General Assembly meeting of this year. So I'd like to make some reminders. Although power pretends to forget the conjunctive, we don't forget the Libyan agenda and we don't forget the Mehmetcuks we sent to Libya. Turkey's national foreign policy has been reduced to foreign policy, which, according to the state of power, turns into a windfall that has been released here and there. Our faulty foreign policy steps are not improved by sending our Mehmet-chik out of the country. The misguided foreign policy steps that have been followed both keep Turkey out of the diplomatic tables, and risk the safety of our Mehmetchiks across the country. The foreign policy followed by power is not consistent; it is also possible to see it in power's own policies. In fact, it is possible to set examples in such a way: There are reports in the media that power has recently returned to the West. The Foreign Minister is going to Brussels, making some talks. Relations with the European Union are constantly said to have been prioritized and Turkey's location is in Europe. Do you realize how many times Turkey's policy with the European Union has changed in recent years? Four times, 180 degrees each, once changed in favour of the European Union against the European Union. The European Union's increased expectations for our country has certainly caused Turkey to face some difficulties on this issue, but it is possible to criticize Turkey's refusal to publicly support it, but as a result, Turkey also loses its significant achievements against the European Union. Speaking of the challenges facing Turkey's foreign policy right now, at least I'd like to continue by reminding you that this year's first General Assembly activities began on the Council of Europe as of yesterday. You know, Turkey was a country that had previously been under observation, controlled by the Council of Europe, which had been removed from this observation to continue its activities in a limited way, but in 2005, Turkey was again under control by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2017, when it was a positive step forward for Turkey to begin its accession talks with the European Union. I've been following it over and over for two days, and I'm agreeing with the meetings of some of the reports that need votes from here, which have been repeatedly expressed -- as a valuable character has just stressed -- Turkey has not made progress on human rights. If we want to benefit from such issues as customs union and visa liberalisation, and we want to improve our relations with the European Union, we need to start with the Council of Europe and the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights. Today, Turkey has been reduced to a situation at the European Union summits that has never been mentioned. The European Union is now seeking a new path, and at the last stop before the exit, it says, it is trying to create a conjuncturally positive agenda. Dear lawmakers need to explain the reason for the power to suddenly return to the European Union agenda. Why did the countries of the European Union suddenly become our friends? You know, don't get me wrong, we're happy that the European Union and Turkey, of course, are on each other's agenda, and we're very happy about that, but it's important that the public hears the reason for this change in approach with statements that the government is going to make. We'd like to keep those positive remarks going and turn them into a positive agenda. While new breakthroughs are taking place in the diplomatic community, very important opportunities are taking place in the face of our country. For example, steps regarding the European Union are of interest to our country's security and future, but similar steps must be taken in other geography and other matters. Therefore, the government must quickly put aside its ideological obsessions and take advantage of opportunities because the challenges of the emphasis of the Muslim Brothers of power are especially increasing in our geography and in the Middle East and North Africa. Since we're talking about sailing, let's continue sailing. Yesterday, talks with Greece began again. We are pleased that negotiations have begun, and we hope that it will contribute to a peaceful solution. Again, as these developments continue, a positive development occurred at yesterday's meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union. It was also said that the European Union's Foreign Ministers had put the additional sanctions agreed on against Turkey at the December summit. I wonder why. Dear lawmakers, the government is constantly trying to deliver messages that the European Union has begun reorganising relations with the European Union under the fear of sanctions, but foreign policy is not just relations with Europe. Foreign policy is not just about relations with the European Union. Look, we're still not taking some steps that need to be taken while we sit at the table. The Eastern Mediterranean Gas Forum, created by Egypt, Israel, Palestine, Greece, the Greek Cypriot Administration, Italy and Jordan, was transformed into a regional organisation with an agreement signed in Cairo, Egypt. A front was also created against Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. In the formation of this front, the emperor's foreign policy is a reason in itself. This move played a leading role in Turkey's weight and power in the Eastern Mediterranean region being questioned. The countries where Turkey has toppled its diplomacy desk are meeting in front of Turkey today. The reason for this situation is that power also creates a gap in diplomacy. Israel re-established diplomatic relations with the United Arab Emirates, after Bahrain, after the water, with Morocco. He opens his embassy in Abu Dhabi, and in the United Arab Emirates. Egypt and Qatar are re-establishing diplomatic relations. However, while all this is happening, we are still unable to improve our relationship with some countries in the region. We still haven't raised our diplomatic relations with Egypt to the level of embassy. We still haven't been able to raise our relations with Israel to the level of ambassador. So, if you keep your relationships with some actors that may have been able to directly affect the agenda of the East Mediterranean and the Aegean lately, then you're not going to achieve anything by smiling at the European Union in foreign policy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Even the Gulf countries are making new diplomatic initiatives, and Turkey must turn this situation into an opportunity as it resolves their own problems. Turkey must rectify and make peace today that it has cut ties with some countries in which it had never once been hostile in any way. Here comes Egypt at the beginning of these countries. We're not just having the General Assembly's first meeting today, but the Foreign Affairs Commission just held its first meeting this year. We also expressed this issue there, that as soon as Turkey seems to be making a sudden foreign policy move, we stressed there that its efforts to create perception should be supported in realistic concrete steps, and as the Republican People's Party, we said, "The Foreign Commission, one of the key committees of the legislative body, should also prevent Turkey's foreign policy, and with some of its activities, contribute to the construction of this foreign policy." When we said that, we immediately proposed that our Foreign Commission send a parliamentary delegation to Egypt as soon as possible. Inter-parliamental relations have a tremendously important function in the establishment of foreign policy. So I repeat this once again by reminding you that the proposal we made here at the General Assembly and at the High Council and at the Foreign Commission has been made official. Another country that will change the equation on the eastern Mediterranean after Egypt is Syria. Syria is not only a key country in the Eastern Mediterranean, it is a country that will actually provide Turkey with the ability to maneuver in the field of foreign policy on many other issues. Look, in the past few weeks, the Minister of National Defence and the senior military delegation with him also had a visit to Iraq. There were talks with Iraq, even with the government in Erbil, in the fight against terrorism. However, we still cannot speak to Syria, our most important neighbor and another neighbor, whom we should most deal with in the fight against terrorism. Why is the security of our country and our region ignored when it comes to Syria? What is the difference between the Libyan government, which is recognised by the United Nations, and the legitimate government that has been contacted because it is a legitimate government, and the legitimate government of Damascus known by the United Nations, again in Syria? Why is the legitimacy of one of them when they both have legitimacy, and the legitimacy of the other is not acceptable? The other country in which Turkey can strengthen its hand at the diplomatic table is Israel. Diplomatic relations with Israel must also be raised to the level of ambassadors as soon as possible. Look, our tradition of a powerful pilgrim we've had since the Ottoman Empire has the capacity to overcome all these developments. As long as the State Department re-enacts its merits, and the Foreign Offices are able to carry out their duty in foreign policy as they deserve. Dear MPs, Mr. President, in accordance with these issues, Mr. President, I hereby declare that the Turkish Armed Forces Naval Assembly Resolution 1241 of February 5, 2020, which has been extended for a year from February 10, 2020, will again use the first vote of the People's Party of Turkey, which has been extended to the United States of Turkey, in accordance with the principle established by which decisions and fundamentals have been extended by February 10, 2021. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0195par0108	Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Mehdi Eker on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Eker.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0196par0111	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in early 2021, I wish you the best of years and the best of luck. I wish the year 2021 would bring health, peace, peace and brotherhood for all of us. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group for the extension of the mandate of the Turkish Armed Forces naval elements in the region, which is remembered as a matter of one year, under the terms of decisions taken earlier by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the acts of naval bandits and armed robberies in the Gulf of Aden, Somali land waters and open areas, the Arab Sea or mujavir regions, and I salute you. Of course, 12 years have passed since the first government resolution on this issue, and on February 10th 2009, Turkey was approved by the Grand National Assembly. For what reason was he taken here, and what was done, by the way? And is it still necessary to have these elements of the sea there, those of the armed forces in charge? In this frame, I will share with you my thoughts and opinions on behalf of my group. Members of parliament, in this region before 2008, there were over 500 robberies in the Gulf of Somalia, Aden, and the Arab Sea. As of the end of 2008, three of the Turkish-related ships were also the target of such attacks or were directly affected. Again, 37 Turkish sailors were taken hostage during that period. In 2008, four decisions were made in the United Nations Security Council; decisions 1816, 1838, 1844 and 1846 were made, and in January 2009, decisions 1851 were adopted to establish legal legitimacy in this area in terms of international law and control of the region. Decision 1851, adopted at the United Nations Security Council on 8 January 2009, allowed the establishment of a joint task force under the name of the joint power. In this framework, contributing to the security of trade in a major percentage of the world's trade in the transit zone, Turkey's own commercial and international interests, contributing to the security of humanitarian aid in Africa and its nearby region, the international institution, the institution and the state's intensively existing region, has been brought to this day due to the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces marine elements. ▪ Did the assignment have a positive effect? What kind of developments have happened? The answer is, yes, there have been some very positive developments. Obviously, since March 2010, no Turkish flag, Turkish-connected commercial ship has been exposed to that kind of bandits and that kind of attack in that region. Well, if that's the case, do we need to extend this mandate? If these attacks are so low, can we say that security has been fully secured? Unfortunately, we can't say that because there is instability in this region, it's unfortunate that not only are these types of bandits from the sea, not piracy, but the political instability of the countries in the vicinity, but some of the threats, from time to time, of land-based terrorist organizations operating in the region, continue. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are a matter of international security in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia, and in recent years, naval banditry and piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. Such issues as immigration, human trafficking, border disputes -- especially terrorism and piracy -- have a negative impact on the security situation in this region. About 10 per cent of the world's trade and 40 per cent of the European trade with the east are from this region. I've just stated that there have been numerous incidents of sea bandits and armed robberies in this area that connects the Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean to the Indian Ocean until 2008. In this scope, Turkey's liaison, Turkish flag or owner, the Turkish citizen who operates the five ships are again being hijacked by pirates, while the ships are being released by the next one. Due to military operations and protective measures taken by merchant ships carried out in the region, such attacks have been severely reduced. The international legitimacy of the fight against piracy activities was also established by 16 decisions made by the United Nations Security Council between 2008 and 2020. These decisions are the basis of the international community's struggle with the naval bandits off Somalia, including the landwaters of this country. The time of the UN Security Council's decisions has been extended for another year with December 4, 2020 and Decision 2554. Especially Turkey, which cares about navigational liberalisation and the establishment of security in the seas, supports the development of international cooperation in the fight against sea banditry. Turkey is actively involved in the work conducted by the United Nations, NATO, the European Union and the International Maritime Organization. Again, our country was a founding member of the Anti-Piratic Contact Group on the Offshore of Somalia, which was created in the framework of the United Nations Security Council's Decision 1851. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are still in need of extension. Because in the final statement of the 22nd General Assembly meeting of the Anti-Piratic Contact Group on June 20, 2019 in Somalia, the assessment that pirate attacks have been significantly reduced in recent years but have not been completely eliminated, therefore the multi-dimensional international approach to the fight against piracy and the continuation of the mission to combat naval bandits in the region has been highlighted. The 23rd General Assembly meeting of the group referred to in this framework took place on 17-18 December 2020. Dear friends, as a result of measures taken out of the Gulf of Aden and the coast of Somalia, piracy has been reduced in this region, but has been observed to shift west of Africa. On this occasion, on Saturday (January 23rd), a ship named Mozart was attacked off the Nigerian Lagos, where 15 citizens of the Republic of Turkey, two ships-run firm... a Turkish company running a ship, 15 of their employees, unfortunately, were held hostage by the Boden Maritime Company. Meanwhile, one of our Azerbaijan brothers lost his life -- Fererman Ismayilov, the 2nd engineer -- was wounded by Furkan Jaren and Bahadir Green, but the ship entered Gabon's Port-Gentil Harbor and was protected by the Gabon Navy. So the power in the Gulf of Aden has been particularly effective here, where sea bandits and piracy has been severely diminished, but on the other side of Africa, in the Gulf of Gabon, the threat remains, unfortunately, on the coasts of Africa. The issue at the December meeting is also being considered, especially here, that the Gulf of Guinea has become the target of pirates, and the situation is monitored by our country within the framework of the International Maritime Organization. At a meeting of the International Maritime Office, which operates in the International Chamber of Commerce, published in September 2020, there has been another 95% of the actions carried out in this region. By clustering around Lagos in Nigeria from the beginning of 2020 until September, a total of 44 attacks were recorded in the Gulf of Guinea, the latest incident on January 23rd... In the Gulf of Aden, anti-sea bandits activities are currently under three separate frameworks, including Operation Atalanta of the European Union, the United States-led Marine Corps and the United States-led ships. Since February 17, 2009, the United Navy has supported international activities with frigates under the command of the Joint Task Force-151, which has been established under the task force. In 2017 and 2018, the task force was contributed by 3 frigates. From 13 January to 19 March 2019, Gökçaada was supported by the anti-sea banditry activities. Not only did he contribute to the task force, but he was actively led by the resources and capabilities of our Navy and the role of international pioneer in this area. Our country took over six tours of command of the task force between 3 May-13 August 2009, 1 September-1 December 2010, 19 September-13 December 2012, 27 August-21 December 2015, 29 June-2 November 2017 and 25 June-10 December 2020. This is also a first in terms of our Marine Corps. With the takeover of the command, for the first time outside NATO, Turkey has commanded a multinational coalition force at sea. The Gulf of Aden, Somali territorial waters and coasts were also supported by Operation Ocean Shield of NATO, which began on 17 August 2009 and ended on 24 November 2016 as part of the fight against sea bandits in the Arab sea and mujavir regions. On 7 December 2011, 7 June 2012, our country served as commander of this operation. Our national activities are also supported during this mission, which is critical for the facility and protection of international trade and navigation security. Our frigates operating in the region are taking every precaution and co-ordinating necessary to ensure safe passage of ships carrying humanitarian aid on behalf of Turkish Bayrakli and Turkey. On the ship carrying the aid supplies sent to Somalia by the Turkish Red Sea, our Gaziantep Frikatayini was assigned in May 2016 to provide escort and protection in areas that were risky for the invasion of Mogadishu Harbor. Although there's been a decline in pirate attacks in the area, as I've just said, the problem is not completely gone. In line with the UN Security Council resolutions, we are approaching the problem of naval banditry on the outskirts of Somalia from a comprehensive perspective. With the knowledge that the main causes of piracy are not on the sea, but on land, we contribute special importance to the humanitarian and development aid of Somalia, and to their efforts to develop talent. We maintain extensive assistance in the areas of human security and development for Somalia and the people of Somalia. Our country's ability and ability to continue its role as a pioneer in the fight against this threat is essential to our political, military and commercial interests. The Turkish Armed Forces are concretely consolidating the appearance of our foreign policy with the presence of Turkish frigates in the region, equipped with the most modern systems in the world. In addition, Turkish flagships that pass through the region are secured and support for humanitarian aid activities that are linked to our country. Mr. President, it is known that the Turkish Armed Forces' Gulf of Aden, Somali Blackwaters and Offshore has been extended for one year since February 10, 2020, with the Turkish Grand National Assembly's decision to extend its mandate in the Arab Sea and Micavir Territories. On February 10, 2021, we consider that it would be helpful to continue the activities under the thesis, which will expire. With this thought and assessment, we will vote positively for the Justice and Development Party Group, and I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0197par0131	Speaking on behalf of groups on the presidential thesis has been completed. Now, on behalf of the individuals, I'm going to make a promise to two congressmen. The first statement is from Eskişehir MP Utku Kırözer. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0198par0136	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. I have made a pledge on the presidential declaration that the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces will be extended for another year in the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters and open areas, in the Arab Sea and in the areas of the Mujavir. On this occasion, we welcome our heroic members of the Turkish Armed Forces, who now serve both at our borders and in many parts of the world, as well as in Somalia, and wish them all the best. With respect and gratitude to our heroic veterans and to the rest of their lives, as well as to the martyred Marine Selim Gedik. This thesis was brought to aid in the international fight against sea bandits and armed robberies in the Gulf of Aden and surrounding areas. At the exact same time that we met, a ship named Mozart was attacked by a pirate in the Gulf of Guinea off Nigeria. We wish and pray that our citizens, who were taken hostage in this attack, will be saved safely. This pirate attack on our ship and our citizens reveals how important it is for the international community to be in the Gulf of Eden under the United Nations power. So it's important that our country is part of an international struggle with these piracy activities. That's why we support this thesis. I would like to take this opportunity to address the latest developments in foreign policy. A movement is being observed in negotiations with the European Union. But there's something very remarkable going on. President, Foreign Minister talks to EU officials, Foreign Minister visits Brussels, press statements are made, beautiful words, glistening words, but you're looking at one big flaw: There's no mention of Turkey's European Union accession process. It's like they're interviewing a third party, not a country with a full membership candidate. See the EU Result Declaration on December 10,11, where they don't even discuss their relationship with Turkey in the title "Enlargement," the text that Ankara likes so much doesn't even mention our candidacy status. What is Turkey doing while they're doing this? On the one hand, Europeans and tensions are taken, fasting Reis withdraws, Barbaros withdraws, talks with Greece begin. We are not quarrelling with France, we are in harmony with Germany. The EU side is very pleased, and they say we are pleased with the gestures of Turkey. On the other hand, we will reform the world in Turkey, bring judicial reform, economic reform. The messages are being sent, but my dear friends, we are aware of the game you're playing here. On one hand there will be gestures made to Europe, to the United States, where our rights will be taken from us, where there will be no noise, and the reform speech will try to paint the eyes, but on the other hand, right violations, pressures, persecutions will continue within Turkey. Maybe foreign countries can believe or believe in this reform for their own national or regional interests, but we don't. How can we believe that? Journalists, politicians, jurisprudences have been in unjust lawless prisons for months. Here is the founder of the NGO, Osman Kavala, a businessman, who has been in Silivri prison for 1,183 days, despite the fact that the AIHM has called him a prisoner for political reasons and decided to violate him. For years, Ayhan Bilgen has been deprived of their freedom in prison, despite the decisions of the ECHR and AYM. Tens of thousands of our citizens have been sued for the use of their freedom of expression, detentions, arrests. Local courts don't recognize the Constitutional Court's decisions, the ECHR's decisions. Look, the Constitutional Court has issued a second rights violation for our MP Enis Berberoglu, who has been sent to parliament by the votes of millions of Istanbuls, but our MP Berberoglu still can't sit in his rightful place in this parliament. Next Party Vice President Selçuk Özdağ, Yeniçag daily Ankara News Representative Orhan Uðlu, KRT programmer Afşin Hatipoğlu are being attacked in the middle of the street in broad daylight, only because of their thoughts, statements. Those who rule the country, instead of condemning these attacks, pass on by saying "techical events." Journalists Aysnur Arslan, Decision writers Elif Çakır, Taha Akyol, Yıldı Ay Oğur are being targeted by politicians as well as exposed to insults and threats through social media. Not only them, but seven journalists were attacked on the first twenty days of the year in Turkey, in Uğışta, Aydın, Ankara, İstanbul in the middle of the street. Hundreds, thousands of sites are banned, disabled. According to the Free Web Turkey platform report, 42 per cent of the news blocked over the past year is directly related to the Justice and Development Party President and other party executives. TVs are being unfairly blacked out. The newspapers are sentenced to hundreds of days of official ads without legal grounds. If you really want to show that you are reforming, make sure that Enis Berberoglu's decision is implemented. His return to the House is the determination of all of us. On February 5th, there's a case against Osman Kavala. The ECHR decisions are clear, so get this innocent, innocent man out of here. You've been playing this game for years, you've been doing all kinds of antidemocratic work inside, trying to criminalize our political opponents through judgment and media. There's another dimension to this, when you say foreign policy. Everyone is the United States of America these days. Biden's coming, Biden's going. The President of the United States, the new Foreign Minister of the United States, is in the Senate saying that our country is an ally, and Ankara has nothing. The president and the court avant-garde talk about everything, and they don't even talk about it. My dear friends, where is the primitive foreign policy? The matter of the eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean. Of course, it's a pleasure to see future talks begin. Turkey has been in the Eastern Mediterranean for a year, Barbaros has been on the coast of Cyprus, and has now retreated quietly. Why did you send it, what did you find, why did you take it quietly? He needs more information from Turkey, but was this all a gesture, as EU official Borell said? In exchange for what, Barbaros, and for what, Oruç Reis? Do we renounce the rights of us and the Turkish Cypriots on hydrocarbon sources? Is this gesture worth it? Of course, high-level talks between Turkey and Greece must be held, future talks must be held, but only future talks do not bring peace to the Aegean. To do that, Turkey and Greece must address the issues of the region directly, away from the pressure of the third parties, there is no other option. It is unacceptable to discuss the EU just to please the United States, in a way that will not benefit the Turkish-Greek people. My dear friends, the problems of our Uygur-Turkish brothers, I would like to bring to the Parliament's agenda the fear of the Uygur Turks, who have been sheltered in Turkey by the persecution of China. The Uygur Turks living in Turkey are on edge because of a Restitution Agreement signed between China and Turkey. What's the deal? Will the captured Uygur Turks be sent to China? There's a great unknown. Of course, Turkey's relations with China are important, but those relations with China must be ensured for the benefit of the Uygur Turks. It is not proper for this Parliament to address the widespread violations of rights and atrocities against the Uygur Turk of our hundreds of thousands because our relationship with China is going to be good, because we will receive economic aid. The Restitution Agreement of Criminals should not victimize our brothers and sisters who seek refuge in Turkey due to common rights violations. If this agreement is to endanger the lives of innocent Uygur Turks, who are not involved in any crime that has no interest in Turkey, it must not be approved or postponed until further notice. By maintaining their identity, the Uygur Turks should be able to enjoy basic rights and freedoms equally, to live in peace and prosperity. My dear friends, another matter I'd like to mention is about our descendants in Crimea. In our country today, we have a brother, the Crimean Tatar Turk, whose number is millions; the descendants of the people who had to migrate to Turkey, where many of us are related, related to neighbourly ties, after the invasion of Crimea, in 1783, after the invasion of Crimea. These people have made great contributions to our country's life of politics, science, literature, art and commerce, and have always been a great contribution to our country's goal of conflicting civilization, as loyal peoples to our country. Sadly, however, in 2014, the Crimean Tatars' motherland was once again illegally invaded, as a result of a cruel repeat of fortune and history. Russia, under the eyes of the world, violated all contracts for the preservation of peace, including the UN contract under which it signed under Russia, once again occupied Crimea. Since the occupation, human rights violations in Crimea have now turned into human rights crimes. International human rights organisations publish reports on Crimea every month. The common interpretation of these reports suggests that the situation is a disaster. 16 Crimean Tatars lost their lives in Russian prisons for the 2014 occupation, 11 Crimean Tatars are missing, and 208 Crimean Tatars are imprisoned as political prisoners or prisoners, according to August 2020.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0199par0148	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0198par0149	These pressures and persecutions are also done to Ukrainians and other nations who live in Crimea and oppose the occupation. These are not just numbers, but each number represents the persecution of one person, one family. Between 2014-2020, 50,000 people from Crimea have had to emigrate to Ukraine, half of which are Crimean Tatars. Pressures, tortures, layoffs, people are in need of bread, work, and food. Dear lawmakers, not all persecutions in Crimea are about this, but there are reports of human rights organizations. Corona's pandemic also has a sense of its effects in Crimea. According to official figures in Crimea, 35,000 cases have been announced and 60 percent of these cases are Crimean Tatars. The health system is down on the peninsula; medicine, hospitals, doctors are not available. In the year 2021, the pressures of both pandemic and occupational rule seem to have no promise for the Crimean Tatars. The Crimean Tatar brothers all over the world, especially Turkey, are sad to see what's happening, but Turkey, unfortunately, is passive on the Crimea issue. In the face of the right violations of our Crimean bloodlines, our House must act now.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0199par0152	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0198par0153	Dear lawmakers, even if we can't do anything, a group of friends between the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Crimean Tatar National Assembly must be established in our Parliament. The Crimean Tatars, our family members, are expecting a great deal of support from Ankara, from our Parliament. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0199par0155	On behalf of his people, the last speaker is Ghaziantep MP Ali Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0200par0158	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Turkish Armed Forces to extend the support of the marine elements of the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters and coasts of the Arab Sea and armed robberies and international efforts to fight terrorism at sea for another year. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Starting with my words, Mozart, who was recently attacked on the outskirts of Lagos, Nigerian, and died on our commercial ship, I ask God's mercy on our Azerbaijan brother, and my condolences on his honorable family. Again, I wish for the immediate release of 15 of our detained citizens and their families. In that direction, it is wise to point out that our government's hard work is continuing as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, if you look at this latest attack, it shows how important the Aden Bay thesis that we are discussing today is to ensure stability in that region and stability in different areas, especially in order to ensure the stability of commercial ships, especially in order to ensure the stability of the region and in the interest of our country, in order to protect its commercial interests. In many ways, the Gulf of Aden has strategic significance. First of all, perhaps the strategic importance of the place is to address its importance both for the region and for the global and for our country. As you know, 90 per cent of the world's trade is carried out by sea trade, and 20 per cent of the world's sea trade is carried out by the Red Sea through the Suez Canal, the Gulf of Aden, the coasts of Somalia, and the Arab Sea. Again, considering the important oil transfer in the Middle East, the oil trade and transfer of oil to the Gulf of Aden, the transfer to the West, the United States, and the United States, is still a very important strategic way of water. As far as our country's concerned, we can say that nearly 1,000 Turkish merchant ships are in navigation every year in the region. We can say that a water route, which is about 80 billion dollars in exports, 20 per cent of our exports of the thousand commercial ships, has made the region important to our country in terms of its international trade route. The task that the Turkish Armed Forces have carried out in the area since 2009, with your thesis, is, in fact, a security study against piracy, against marine terrorism, against sea robbery, to eliminate instability in the region, especially by interfering with poverty in the region, and only military methods are not enough alone to end instability in the region. The Turkish Gun Kuvves have actually taken over the humanitarian aid mission in the region, going beyond military measures. As Turkey, we support many infrastructure projects there. Again, by taking on additional missions in terms of a number of instabilitys within Somalia, in finding out about internal instability, we have not only the sea, but, in fact, different missions on land. In this sense, it is useful to emphasize the importance of the region as well as a point. In fact, if you look at it, the narrowing of the global economy along with the Covid process and the deepening of the global inequality of income seem to trigger further regional crises and such instability in the region in the coming period. As it turns out, this type of sea piracy and terrorism initiative that we've encountered in Somalia and the Gulf of Aden has also shifted to different parts of Africa. In this sense, with the deepening of the global economic crisis, triggered by Covid, as well as the further deepening of regional income inequality, we can predict from this day that if we take it from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific, the crisis will move deeper and deeper to the extremes of Africa. It is also useful to say that the military measures taken alone would not be enough to prevent regional crises and regional disturbances from being carried out within the framework of the United Nations, within the framework of the Navy, the Navy, their own navy or NATO of many countries. And I'd say we need to put our hats in front of us and think about the balance of income in the global economy. Mr. President, the Turkish Armed Forces, not only in Aden, but in Asia, have taken on missions from the Caucasus to the Middle East, to the Balkans and to Africa. In fact, this is a mission in the genetics of the Turkish Armed Forces, in our nation's genetics. Our nation has always taken on a great mission, such as the establishment of justice on earth, the establishment of stability, the guardianship of the oppressed, throughout history. With Sumatra and Banda Aceh Muslims asking Sultan for support against growing Portuguese persecution there in the 1560s, since the war with the Portuguese on the coasts of Banda Aceh and Sumatra in 1569, the Turkish Armed Forces have taken important missions to establish justice between the east and west of the world and the north and south, in order to bring stability to many places, in fact. In this sense, not only do the Turkish Armed Forces land members but also the marine elements have been based on very important missions, not just with the Army and the Navy. We have witnessed in Europe that our country, the uniform of this nation's mighty soldiers, has established justice in various times. Our nation has made significant contributions to sea history. So, given the value of the world's history of sailing, Turkish history, from Piri Reis to Barbaros Hayreddin Pasha, we can actually say that as a country surrounded by the three sides of the sea, more important missions are waiting for us. And while we're on the subject, many of our orators have actually expressed it here. The one who dominates the seas controls the Jihan. The word is extremely valuable. In this sense, our country, which extends its influence, its influence geography, to different continents, also has very important work at the point of increasing its own sea potential and power in the coming process. Speaking of which, I'd like to make this brief. For example, the MILEM Project is a very important step in which our country, our nation, has taken in this sense in recent years. The project, led by the Turkish Navy, aims to develop a number of multipurpose corvettes and frigates that can be used in a series of missions, including exploration, surveillance, early warning, anti-sub war, surface war, surface war, and amphibian operations. Again, one of the most important work we've conducted in this area is that the Anatolian TCG ship will soon be in the inventory of the Turkish Navy in 2021. It's one of the most important, valuable strategic ships ever built in its field. We can call it the SIHA ship, and I can tell you that the helicopters, the SIHA, can take off, and it will contribute greatly to the Turkish Armed Forces and our fleet as an operational ship. In order to increase the potential of the Turkish Navy, the armed drone that we have produced and served in the past months, we can say that this is also a very important step in strengthening our national defence industry. At the point of exporting this, we launched the 4-MILGE Project for Pakistan, the sister country, where I was again president of the Friendship Group, and three of them were suspended. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll say hi.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0201par0173	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0200par0174	On this occasion, I would like to wish you all the best in the country, in the region, and in the world trade.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0201par0176	Congressmans, talks on the presidential statement have been completed. I will now submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0202par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Marine banditry has come from history. For the safety of marine areas, contracts have been made, agreements have been made. The BMDHS considered the banditry a crime and left the bandits to the state to stand trial. There are many reasons underlying the acts of sea bandits. Many types of sanctions have been implemented by the UN and the international community to fight this issue. Co-ordination and cooperation are essential to success in combat. Turkey plays an active role in the fight. Legal measures and security measures have been very effective in the decline of events. For a permanent solution, these measures must be sustainable and continuous.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0201par0181	Mr. Emecan...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0203par0182	The number of women murdered in our country is increasing year after year. Every day at least three women are slaughtered, stabbed, thrown out the window, burned, shot by men. The systematic killings of women have now become a form of breaking. In order to protect women from violence, murder, harassment and rape, the Istanbul Convention and the more effective implementation of Law 6284 must be brought to the attention of the general meeting of women killings and violence against women who have become one of our country's top issues in order to create awareness and promote this struggle. Society expects us to do that. We're ready. Our call is to Parliament Speaker Mustafa Sentop and all political parties represented in Parliament.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0201par0183	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0204par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. The world saw a government that worked seriously to bankrupt its tradesman with the AKP. You've announced your decision to pay rent by saying big words to the business you closed down, lent loans, loans, loans, loans. It's not about help, it's about help. How many members of the ruling partners have cut off their ties to the world? I visited the tradesmen, listened to their problems, and I will work on their solution. It can be helped for three months, and it's only for take-away employees. Being jealous of the AKP's mind, the flying Turkey is unable to help it survive its taxed tradesman for years. Now that we've got the rent benefits, our shopkeeper's looking for us. We've learned that they're only for those whose businesses are completely closed. What if the shop was half open?
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0205par0187	In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly No. 2/2448 on the amendment to Penal Code No. 5271. I demand that my proposal be brought directly to the agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Sera Kadıgil will speak as the owner of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kadigil. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0206par0196	Mr. President, members, I salute the General Assembly. I'm here with one of the dozens of laws offered to prevent violence against the woman and abandoned to her fate in our Parliament. We're offering a very simple proposition in this proposal that we're asking for law to be passed in parliament, and we're offering you this right now: no way to reconcile in cases of violence against women.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0207par0200	Just a moment, Mr. Kadigil. Congressmans, we have a speaker friend on the stand. There's a serious hum coming, and I'd appreciate it if we could listen to the speaker. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0208par0203	It doesn't matter if we listen, Mr. President. We're talking to the public, so we can continue, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're here with an offer like this. Mr. Group Vice President, you listen because it makes sense. I'm speaking to the AKP Group Deputy Directors. We say: "Don't impose agreements on violence against women." So, yes, in cases of battery against women, the legislation is available, but, for example, the threat continues to be applied. A wife goes out, threatens her wife, then goes to the prosecutor's office, complains, the prosecutor says, "Let's get you back together. We're not the only ones saying this, we're not the only ones making this offer." In fact, it's a provision of the Istanbul Convention, which women like that say, "Let it be observed, let it be applied." The terms of the Istanbul Convention, which he calls the 48th article, in fact, tells us that you must pass it on to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's been a lack of context, and it didn't come from you, so we're bringing it in, and we're saying, let's do this app. Because as I said, the Istanbul Convention clearly states that states are obliged to ban and take the necessary measures regarding all kinds of gender-based violence. Unfortunately, we can't get it to be applied even though we've signed our signature and we've passed this contract unanimously on this great roof. In fact, I have made a promise and I am speaking to you that you will accept this law proposal, which will carry out the 48th article of the Istanbul Convention. I also have to say that Mr. Utku Cakırezer is the original owner of this proposal, but thanks to him, it is inappropriate for a man to talk about women when his agenda is so heavy. I also want to thank him and our group for this. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I want to say, why did Utku Cakiroz feel the need to make such an offer? I mean, where did this offer come from? My dear friends, Ayþe is off the Tuba Arslan case. Do you remember when she was murdered, there was a note in her purse, a complaint? Are you going to protect me when I'm killed? Ayşe Tuba Aslan said. Because he had applied 23 times to this state, and nothing had been done to the 23rd, and that's exactly why he died. He was threatened, he was sent to compromise, if you remember, he was asked for protection, he wasn't provided. So because of those provisions we spent here in Congress, but never enforced, Ayþe Tuba Arslan was dead. It's even more painful, do you know that by not doing its duty, I mean, not one of the officers of the state who sent Ayşe Tuba Arslan to his death without even hearing one of the 23 complaints? No one asked his servant, "What have you done, my brother, that one man has received so many complaints?" HSK came out. He said, "My judges have nothing to do with it." The prosecutor said, "The police have nothing to do with it." The Ministry said, "There is no neglect of my people." Ayşe Tuba Arslan apparently died on her own. Because, dear friends, our laws, we lawmakers' laws are not enforced, and those who don't enforce them, are sadly rewarded in this patriarchal order of ours instead of being punished. As a result, three women's friends each day began to sacrifice male terror. We haven't started, and we've always given it to women's associations, and now we're getting wind of this woman-crushing. It's a good thing you've been hearing this word for a few days, and it's a good thing you've heard it, because the ECHR made a call about it, and it's a good thing that so many artists have brought it up today. Because, friends, this capitalist and patriarchal order that we have to live in is systematically destroying us women. You have to name it right, so it's called a woman's cross, so it's called a sex hybrid. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I mean, like we said before, when a woman is killed because she's a woman, because she's a woman, because she's a woman, because of all the stupid roles that she's put on herself by society, it's called a woman's murder. If the government isn't protecting the woman, if she's leaving the perpetrator unpunished, and she's making it systematic, then you should know that this woman's murder is also called a cross-section. This is exactly why women's associations are standing, and it's not a new concept, it's not a concept by Turkish feminists. See, in the United Nations 2016 Report, the clear definition is: Women's cross is the most extreme form of violence against women. The woman is the greatest manifestation of male inequality, she says. Like I said, that's exactly why the women's associations are calling us, us. It's not the palace, it's not the President; it's us. He's calling in the lawmakers.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0209par0213	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0208par0214	Thank you. And that's because the laws that we signed under you, the ones that we all voted for here, can't be enforced. That's why women are rioting from all over Turkey right now, brother, do your duty, gather around, talk about how you're going to enforce these laws; you're all talking separately; come together on a good day, what a beautiful day, sit down in those lines of parliament and talk about it. (Applause from CHP rows) Because the AKP woman is dying, and the woman from CHP and the woman from HDP are dying, and the woman from the MHP is dying, and we are all dying together in this country, dear friends, and that's why this call is being given to us. Look, I want to thank the Istanbul Convention -- and all the AKP Women who have worked so hard -- since we've done it ten years ago, we've passed the binding legislation, 6284, nine years since we've implemented it. Even though this is happening, if we're still losing three female friends in this country in one day, then there's someone in this country who's not doing their job, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me say one last salute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0210par0220	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0208par0221	Thank you. I'll give you a very short example of why they're calling us on duty, Spain... Spain did this, a government came on duty, and he said, "My greatest goal as a national is to stop this woman's deformation right now." He gave prosecutors the task of filing a resen civil suit, putting bracelets on bracelets, handing out phone calls to women. He split money, money, 200m euros, and he cut women's murders in half in 15 years. That's why the Women's Movement of Turkey is begging us right now, so she's saying, "Get together," so separate the budget. She says, and they want us to do it because they know that if the House really wants something, it can be something. And I beg you, you don't listen to us, you take it as a trick not to listen to us. Look, in the past year alone, more than 30 things have been offered to prevent violence against women, more than 30 things have been proposed, and you haven't listened to any of them. We're saying, come, at least listen to the women of this country, dear friends, because when you don't accept this offer, another Ayşe Tuba, who has to sit at the table after a month to negotiate with her husband, will die, and I say the plague is on all of you, let's follow the call of ESİK, and meet immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0211par0228	We have a roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit03spe0212par0229	Yes, I'll grant you a roll call before you put it to a vote. Mr. Bankoglu, Mr. Koysal, Mr. Karabiyuk, Mr. Sancar, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Antmen, Mr. Sümer, Mr. Gunty, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Bee, Mr. Girgin, Mr. Önal, Mr. Gökçel, Mr. Sümsel, Mr. Sümer, Mr. Süçvikçüçük, Mr. Kadıgil. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] Please don't leave the hall with the paralegal friends. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] Mr. Belgin Uygur? Here. Gulay Hay? Here. Haci Turan? Here. Cevdet Yilmaz? Here. Emine Yavuz Hover? Here. Rumesa Kadak? Here. Victory Seçekaya? Here. Refik Özen? Here. Genghis Demirkaya? Here. Mehmet Ali Cevheri? Here. There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0212par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, and we move to the part of the agenda of the law proposals and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin talks with Samsun MP Fuat Koktaş and 48 MPs' Law on Technology Development Areas and with the Proposal of Law on Changes in Some Laws and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Samsun MP Fuat Koktaş and 48 MPs' Law on Technology Development and Law on Changes in Some Laws (2/3112) and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report (S. Number:229) [[x]] Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 229 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code as the basic law according to the decision taken. Therefore, after the complete negotiations on the proposal have been approved and the transfer to the clauses will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Mr. Ayhan Altıntaş, Ankara MP on behalf of the PARTI Group, who wants to make a statement on the entire proposal. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0213par0012	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-placed PARTI Group on the State-of-the-art Development Act 229 and the Proposal to Change Some Laws. I salute you all. At the end of the 18th century, we observed several industrial revolutions in nearly 200 years from the invention of the steam engine. At the end of the 19th century, the success of electricity production and use of electricity was involved in mass production of industry and the spread of electronic technology in the mid-20th century. Early in the 21st century, we were involved in a rapid development in IT and communications technologies based on digital transformation. In the last ten years, Turkey has not been able to track this development enough. The way out of Turkey, which is caught in a middle income trap and is even falling behind, is that the young generation is highly trained and active in advanced technologies. Because in today's and future world, the most valuable input for economic and social welfare is data, information, and autonomous technologies that use them effectively and properly. These technologies affect the health and education sector as deeply as commercial, social, and political life. For example, the use of these technologies became so rapid and sudden during the Covid-19 pandemic process that 11 months ago, it was unimaginably accepted. An important part of education, sessions and meetings have become a normal arrangement for almost all of them to be conducted online. The pandemic process has contributed substantially to the way that IT and communication technologies have become more than a technological ability to affect society's life and culture, which we've all learned about. The law proposal we're talking about today envisions a change in eight laws. I'm just going to focus on the part about technology development areas. In the Commission report where the proposed law was discussed, the Law on Technology Development No. 4691 allows for technology production and commercialisation of products by bringing together universities, researchers and business worlds, which are legally infrastructured by the Law on Technology Development Areas No. 4691. With the law mentioned, 85 technology development sites have been established in the period from 2001 to today, and 71 have continued their work, while others are in the process of completing their construction. As of August 2020, the number of companies that conducted RD studies reached 5,920, and the number of employees employed at the centre mentioned reached 60,750. The number of RD projects completed in these areas is 36,963, the RD project 10,208, with a total of 317 foreign or foreign companies. When you look at these numbers, you get the impression that we need to be way ahead in technology in the world, right? Looking at the numbers, we can't really say that the situation is as pleasant as the figures I mentioned earlier. I'm certainly not underestimating the successes, and it would have been a lot worse if it hadn't been done, but, my friends, these numbers are always saying they're inputting, they must have been our goal. So what about our technology exports, how many technology companies are known around the world, what products do we do better than other countries? For example, have we made it to the top five countries in developing the Covid-19 vaccine? We need answers to questions like this. Let's not underestimate our accomplishments, but let's not just brag about the inputs. Let's see where we stand in comparison with other countries. I'll give you those comparisons in a minute. Again, the goal of the proposal is explained in the commission report: With the Law on Technology Development Areas and the Law on Changes in Some Laws, R&amp;D is intended to increase human resource capacity, support the emergence and development of technology and innovative companies, develop and institutionalisation of university-industrial and development ecosystems of R&amp;D. In short, it's accepted that we're not well enough to develop technological RD and innovation-based products. The proposal envisions many changes regarding techno parks. For example, I've learned that the procedure is to extend taxes and other advantages to 2028, to improve the structure of the techno park application, to be approved by the Ministry for changes in the original contract owned by the executive company -- which is actually not official -- and let's get the students to the hospital, and let's get the firm's funding, as well as the firm's funding, for two years. We consider all of these changes to be a better situation than the existing law, which is positive. But as with any law, in financial matters, it's wrong to give the president the authority to change tax exemption rates, but it's wrong. The president is the head of the administration, but he does not represent national sovereignty, he is the sovereign nation of the republics, no one is to be handed over. We can only give the President the authority to execute and execute. Let's start with the question, "Where are we at with the RD spending?" We are among the most recent member states of the OECD. We've earmarked about $5 billion for 129 public universities this year. Harvard University, 25,000 students, has a budget of $5 billion, which is the budget of 129 public universities. Naturally, there will be no serious research support from the current budget for universities. We encourage techno parks, but our high-tech rate in exports is constantly dropping. According to the OECD report, the 2012 rate, which was 13,000 in electronics, computers, and optics, dropped to 11,000 in 2015 and 9 in 2018. Our exports have gone up a lot, so the rate has dropped. You can say, "Our exports have increased in other high technologies." You can say, "You can say other things," but you can also say, "In Korea, that's seven percent," which is 70 times ours. I think the real problem is that we can't go beyond RD, because we don't know how to work with product focus. It's a different matter to market an RD study as a product, we don't have an expert on it, we come from idea to prototype, but then we're gone. The techno parks didn't help? Of course, it's done a lot of good in raising people, and a lot of young engineers growing up around here have found jobs abroad, so we've helped provide people for developed countries, but we need to look at what it has done to us. Are the current techno parks working well, how are their infrastructures? Do we know the answer? I'll give you an example: Ankara Gölbaşı, Gazi Technopark, there's a constant power outage, and Ankara, if that's the case, the other provinces shouldn't be better off. Gazi Technopark is in Lake Lake, but the Veteran School of Engineering at Gazi University is in Maltepe, an hour's journey between them. We think every college with a techno park should have a techno park status. Let the firms be among the university buildings, so that they can live together in college and industry. Right now, techno parks have built universities as real estate investors. The government supports me, the university builds a building, the firms come in, they rent between 15 and 25 square feet, they come to the university. In short, the university also gains income from the incentive and support of the state. If it were you, how would you prepare the offer? You can ask the question. I'll tell you his way, we need to look at it from a wide range of angles. First of all, what is the situation in the current technical parks? I think the proposal should have been prepared by answering questions like, "What is our winner, what is our loss?" We had to discuss the extent to which problems this proposal would bring, so we had to do a detailed analysis of the impact. Maybe this was done, but we didn't know about it. Our fellow lawmakers who worked hard with bureaucrats may have known, but they didn't feel the need to inform us. It is not acceptable in normal democracies to have lawmakers with the bureaucracy. As a country, what are our technological infrastructure and our exponential structures; what are our strengths and weaknesses; what are the opportunities and threats that are ahead? We looked for answers to their questions, and we did them with a very broad participation. The most powerful resource we have in terms of technological development is our young population. It's not enough that this population exists alone, we need to give those young people a good education. We need to give this training, not in our own way, but in fashion terms, in a way that is preferred by generations such as the "Y" generation, "Z" generation. There is a description that Hazreti Ali said a thousand and four hundred years ago: ▪ Parents should raise their children in the age of their children, not in the age of their own, but in accordance with the paradigm of the new generation. We need to encourage teachers to adapt to this new system, to train innovation and innovation, to support open ideas, to think freely and critically. As Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson put it, communities where free thinking is common are improving more. There is an important opportunity for our country because of our young population in the technological R&D sector, which has very high added value, low capital investment, very low human investment. It is important to take the right steps to turn this opportunity into an advantage. Before these steps are taken, we need to demonstrate our country's current situation in this sector and in the science, technology, and RD policies that are feeding this sector closely. The fact that our country has good human resources, has good universities, has brain power in many countries around the world, can be used as the most powerful driving force to follow and integrate the world, to be socially sensitive and willing, but unfortunately, we're still dealing with the appointment of our top universities as vice presidents. What happens after all? Every year, we lose our country's qualified young people with brain drains. As long as we don't improve the economic, moral, and political climate, as long as we look at loyalty instead of righteousness, our well-bred young people will continue to look for their future abroad. When unemployment is high, especially when young unemployment has broken the record of the republic's history, if we can't open the way for young people, we can not only cause economic loss but also cause social and psychological depressions of youth. This will lead Turkey to a conclusion that will threaten its future. In short, young populations are useful, even necessary for technological transformation. However, the young population, which has not been trained and has not been qualified, will be able to cause more problems. It is our responsibility to present our young people with a business structure in their country that is in line with their own abilities and that they can best assess those abilities. Technology is based on science and scientific knowledge. Therefore, education in education in science, technology, engineering and mathematics from secondary education needs to stimulate students' interest in common problems such as climate change, environmental problems, droughts, crowded cities, digital security, sustainable development and energy. Starting before school, the education system must be transformed into a problem-oriented, new-minded, self-learning system. The test-oriented education system must be abandoned immediately, and each student's strengths must be exposed and directed to the most efficient professions. In addition to theoretical education, universities need to reorganise their education in order to gain practical and field experience. The university departments and quotas must be determined according to the needs of sectors and the country, the problem of a young person with a degree in unemployment, resulting in a long-term job problem, a waste of time and economic loss for themselves and their families. The field experience requires cooperation between the state, sectors and universities, so that young people need qualified employees as they increase their employment opportunities. In the world, new college models, such as third-generation universities, business school models that have been trained for a week, should be closely followed, not only in the university's initiative to develop the sector-university relationship. In the creation of this new strategy of universities, industry and employers must be among the shareholders. In this context, universities should be evaluated by the employment opportunities of their graduates, creating the quality security system of each university and department. The ECHR must play a co-ordinator in opening the chapters, in determining the quotas, in providing education, in the evaluation of the programme activity in the creation of industrial cooperation and in tracking the graduates. In this part of my speech, I want to compare the position of our country in which governments around the world provide funding for science. First of all, we see 80 percent of RD investments all over the world in America, Europe and Japan. China has a share of about 8 per cent. In comparison to the population, we are able to capture 40 percent of France and less than 35 percent of other developed countries. Of course, it is not possible to solve the problem by simply increasing quantity, but its investigative quality is also needed to be evaluated. However, we need to find ways to increase the number of researchers without making concessions, and encourage the study of PhDs and graduates in the industry. First, we must aim to increase the number of researchers in the population of 1 million to 5,000 levels. When we look at the first 15 countries from GDP to RD from GDP, we see that the average RD spending is about 3 percent, and we see that it's about 1 percent. A careful study of the RD spending of developed countries around the world shows that two thirds of these expenditures are carried out by the private sector. In order to reach 3 per cent of Turkey's RD density rate, the private sector's RD spending will have to be increased significantly. We expect this offer to serve that purpose. In the 1980s, South Korea was able to expand its economy through Samsung, LG, Hyundai, KIA brands and high-tech exports, behind Turkey. Today, Korea provides 30 per cent of its exports from high-tech products. In Turkey's exports, the share of high-tech products is around 4 per cent. The exports of Turkey, which exported 104 million tonnes in 2016, cost $1.37 a kilogram. In order to achieve export target in 2023, we have to increase the cost of kilograms of exports to $3. Turkey will be able to escape its mid-income trap and reach $500 billion in exports only if it develops high-income goods. Having a say in high-tech is a long-term job, but it's not a goal that can't be achieved. All we have to do is create an appropriate strategy and ecosystem. Finally, I'd like to briefly talk about the infrastructure that needs to be done in the IT technologies I'm interested in. The most urgent infrastructure investment needed in IT technology is the development of fiber infrastructure. For example, compared to South Korea, Turkey is estimated to have a fiber length of 4.5 million kilometers, compared to Portugal. Our existing fiber infrastructure, about 400,000 kilometers [400,000 km], should be upgraded to world standards by investing 3.3 million kilometres in additional fiber infrastructure. By the way, I'd like to point out that the Internet speed in our House is very slow. We haven't made much progress since 2005, according to international assessments of IT-related areas.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0214par0038	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0213par0039	We are ranked in the 51st, policy and regulation worldwide in the network's quality ranking. When our country's information and communication technologies are analysed for dollars, the market has been shrinking more than 14 per cent in recent years. The market values of Turkish TELEKOM and Turkcell have dropped to one third in the last five years, with the loss of value, as well as its responsibility under poor management. As a result, we believe that this proposal was prepared with good intentions for technological enterprise, RD and innovation-based production, but it was insufficient and rushed. For example, it would be good to provide the same support for techno-park companies to RD and design centres. In this way, companies operating in +-technology development areas would grow up and grow up to be supported. What Turkey needs is not only to support entrepreneurship, but also to create infrastructure that will enable entrepreneurs to grow into global companies. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0215par0043	Mr. Abdurrahman, MP of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0216par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of our beloved members of the Veteran Assembly and televisions following us, under the Law on Technology Development Areas 229, and the Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. President, in the 21st century, science and technology have become an area that affects social life as well as economic life. The knowledge of technology has now moved competition between countries and companies into different areas and has triggered investments in these areas. It is one of the areas of investment, and most importantly, techno parks, technology development areas. The basic logic of these areas is to use human resources and regional potentials to transfer the results of the RD in universities and research centers to the industry. Technoparks are defined as the country's research development, technology and patent production centre. In other words, techno parks are organised research and business development ecosystems, where universities, research institutions and industrial institutions continue research development and innovation in the same environment, where they conduct transfers of information and technology between each other, where academic, economic and social structure is integrated. In 2001, the State of Technology Development Law, including the National Movement Party, allows technology production and products to be commercialized by bringing together universities, researchers, business worlds together. As a result of Law 4691, 87 technological development sites have been established in our country since then. As of today, the number of companies running RD studies has reached 6335. As of today, 65,946 employees are employed in technology development areas. The number of R&D projects defined in these areas has been a source of hope and pride for our country to reach 38,872. In terms of foreign capital, the total number of foreign and foreign companies in technology development areas has reached 325. As part of these studies, 1,260 patents have been registered by companies operating in different areas, while 2.768 patents remain. The graduates of basic sciences employed in techno parks have been supported by 43 techno parks, 135 companies, and about 4m euros in cash for 163 people, following the 2017 production reform package. In addition, the development of infrastructure, management building and incubation centers in techno parks, which ensures that a healthy ecosystem can be provided to technology-based businesses, has been funded by about $660m euros in 2020. Mr. President, it is official to document RD centers, which have contributed greatly to the development of RD and innovation ecosystems, along with the adoption of the Law on Research, Development and Design Actions No. 5746 in 2008. These centers aim to boost the private sector's culture of RD and innovation, to develop products in high quality and standards, and to boost qualified labour force employment. As of today, the number of RD centers is 1,243. The number of employees employed in these centers reached 66,469 (a.k.a., 39,391) and the number of projects carried out, 14.472 (a.k.a., 7.041) and the number of patented patents applied to 17.414 (a.k.a.a.). Among these centers, the number of foreign companies is 207. Basic science graduates employed at R&D centers received cash support for around $15m from the following of the R&D reform package, released in 2016. The regulations, known as the R&2/2016 reform package, have been implemented, which provide significant contributions to the R&D ecosystem in our country by the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions, 6676, and by the Law on Some Laws and Law Decisions. In the course of the implementation of these arrangements, feedback from the field has been covered by the needs of technological development and transformation. The proposal aims to boost RD human resources capacity, support and development of technological and innovative companies, develop university-industrial cooperation and institutionalisation, strengthen RD and innovation ecosystems. Buildings created by the Law on Supporting Research, Development and Design Actions No. 4691 have created a structure that complements one another. In the future, technology that has come to a certain point is intended to make intensive work even more valuable in order to further the development of our country's RD and innovation ecosystems. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the Evaluation Board, which has decided to establish a state-of-the-art development zone, has increased the number of institutions operating on technology. At the point where technology initiative comes from around the world, entrepreneurs continue to interact in joint working areas in the city centers, as well as the university-industrial co-operation in areas close to universities. Under the proposal, different country applications have been taken into consideration and are intended for entrepreneurs to benefit from support, incentives and exemptions from the technology development areas, which are key actors in our country's RD and innovation ecosystem, executive companies, including small-scale young entrepreneurs. In addition to the support of enterprises, entrepreneurs are given an important ease by opening a business and providing a work permit from the relevant administrations, as well as by the ability of the Department of Industry and Technology to manage municipal administrations. Our country's RD is provided with significant tax incentives and cash benefits by the state to develop and support innovation-designation activities. When world examples are examined, their funding is seen to be vital. In addition to existing state supports, the investment funds, which are one of the most important factors in this ecosystem, are also intended to establish and strengthen the resources and resources that the private sector will allocate as long as it remains in this system. It is important that entrepreneurs operating in techno parks, university-industrial co-operation and projects they develop, the prototype of products that emerge in projects, the development of tests, support for regional executive companies for infrastructure, management building and incubation centers, as well as support for the RD building, workshop and equipment that will be available in the area. In our country, strengthening the RD and innovation system, providing technology transfers, boosting university-industrial co-operation, increasing high-increased RD and innovation activities, are intended to support entrepreneurs who employ RD personnel. I'd like to point out that we consider it important as our party group to employ and support programme graduates who will be supported by techno-party executive companies, whose basic task is to support the RD projects run by entrepreneurs. Mr. President, under the Law on the Support of Research, Development and Design Actions, R&G and Design Centers may also be allowed to operate outside the R&G and Design Centers of the New Coronavirus epidemic, published in 17/4/20 and 31102; 26/6/2001 and under the Law on the Development of Technology Development Areas under the Law and within the District of the Law on the Law on Reconstructions, 55746; 4/20/20/20/20, the Minister of Technology may be limited to 4/20/20/20. This period can be extended to three months by the Minister of Industry and Technology from the end. If allowed, a reduction under Law 5746 and Law 4691 will continue to be used, exceptions, support and incentives, according to the information of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. On 16 October 2020, the amendment in Law No. 7254, which was published in the Official Gazette, was extended for another year. At the coming point, we also see that RD and innovation activities are not limited to only being built between the four walls, but can be successfully carried out by remote flexible work. In line with the proposal's flexible working hours, businesses in technology development areas and personnel working at private sector R&D and design centres are intended to be able to conduct some of their activities in the same way as outside the region and the centre and to benefit from the support and exemptions provided by law. Mr. President, it's very important that the high-school lawmakers are able to monitor the expectations and needs of the industry on the fields of students who continue their vocational education and in order to increase the opportunities of implementing the private sector in our country, in order to strengthen the RD, innovation and technological substructure of the human resource entry, which we call the development and development of those needs. It is intended to strengthen the partnership between the industry and the university through the transfer of information and savings to entrepreneurs with technological development areas, as academic knowledge and the interaction of information and information in industry will be improved by the teaching of doctoral-age and design center staff at universities. This collaboration between industries and universities will be encouraged to include support for the time spent outside the R&D and design centre for further incentives. In addition, the envisioned arrangements allow these personnel to work more flexiblely. A master's degree, doctoral education is supported to develop qualified human resources and knowledge and to become our country's center of attraction in the field of technology. In the course of our time, the development of the RD ecosystem has been increasing, and RD culture has been significantly improved. An important part of RD culture is now commercialised and exported abroad. This proposal aims to be a country that has extended the duration of support, incentives and exemptions, creating jobs, raising the share of high-tech, high-income value products based on production, developing the quality of manpower, providing large support for high-tech investments, not producing technology. In 2016, our country has made significant improvements in innovation, with reformal changes in both laws. With this offer, improvements will be raised to a higher level and will be further matured, and technology-level high-profile value products will also be targeted. Mr. President, we've all recently witnessed the importance of RD and technology investments and the added value it has given our country. Some of the most important things: the local helo engine TS1400, including the drone and the SIHA, our oil and gas search and drilling ships in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, and the first ship of the MILGEM Project last weekend, the first of the first of its class frigates, the landing of Istanbul's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was a proud development for our country. It is also very important that our country survives external dependency in technology and defence industry, as well as a position that exports technology. In recent months, the most striking example was the local and national SIHA (SIHA) who had written a great saga using the rescue from the invasion of Mount Karabağ. Again, it is also very flattering for our nation to do so at the first source of three of the island-class corvettes that are being built for Pakistan under the same ceremony. Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, our policy of science and technology is primarily intended to focus on science, scientists, scientific thinking, innovation, technology production and the production of technology; to ensure industrialisation by bringing production to a competitive level and transition to the information society. In our 2018 election declaration, AR-Ge and innovation, the innovation of innovation culture, the support of the production of intermediary goods in Turkey, the production of high-tech products and services should be preferred, effective mechanisms should be developed to provide support in the innovation process. With the law proposal we're talking about, we can say that a strong step has been taken. In today's world, where those with technological knowledge have power, the rise in domesticity in high-tech products will also make our country stronger in all areas. Mr. President of the State Garden, as Mr. Bey said, thanks to the domestic and national resurrection in the economy in 2023, the 100th anniversary of the republic, the rise of the spirit of unity and solidarity in politics will surely lead to the level of superpower in Turkey and a country at a global level that is being obeyed. Before I put an end to my words here, I remember my brother Genghis Akyıldıl, who always spent the night in the middle of the day for the country's movement and who drank the witness's sherbet while he was on duty in Istanbul in an election study, who I was honored to serve together during the time of İstanbul Province, with longing and mercy in the 7th year of the testimony of Genghis Akyldıldır. God rest his soul. I salute your high council and wish you all a good and healthy day. God be with you.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0217par0068	İstanbul MP Ali Kenanoğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kenanoglu.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0218par0071	Mr. President, Dear Regents, I salute the General Assembly. On behalf of the HDP Group, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on behalf of the State of Technology Development Act and on behalf of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws. First of all, of course, I'd like to express in a few words our objections to the law-making process, to the progress of the commissions during the law-making process. The law, in fact, has to be discussed, debated, debated, debated with all sectors or the public about these laws, and discussed openly with the society affected by this, and to come to the commission, and to come to the General Assembly in all its dimensions in the commission, but we learn by the President's phone, and he says, "There is a law here, and we will meet three days later." In three days, some views are being written to NGOs, and some are being sent to NGOs. We're reading that bill in three days. Not all of us are experts in the subject, not all of us are experts in everything. So when we say we're working with consultants on the subject and so on and so forth, we take the law out of the commission in one day, and then we come to the General Assembly. And we don't have a process in the General Assembly where it can be discussed and discussed. We're going through a process that's been passed by votes of the majority and passed by the law. That's why these laws are constantly -- even in this period, even in the 27th century -- we know that the same law comes several times, it's been corrected, we've all lived together, we've seen it in many laws. Now, what does this Law bring? This Law brings concessions to companies operating in technology areas. So in order to improve the technology areas, to develop the technology zones, to develop companies that operate there -- software, design, design -- it's a law based on this, based on their immunity from revenues in RD studies. Okay, fine, so let's have all this RD work, let's have technological development, let's have companies that compete with technology companies all over the world, let's have all of this, it's very important. In the end, we all use this technology. Here we are today, because of the Covid issue, and the vaccine is the result of technological development. Now, on the other hand, these techno parks, which are called kulukka centers outside of the technology centers, are actually in these techno parks, or are not able to take advantage of the rights and laws of companies in the incubator centers, such as the reduction of VAT, or the reduction of VAT in some areas to 0. The profits, on the other hand, bring 20,000 entrepreneurs each year to more than 1 million companies, increasing the number of support staff and predicting tax advantages. This is all very important stuff. Because of its pandemic, it extends flexible work for another year, providing tax reductions to taxpayers who support entrepreneurs, including these issues. Now, here's the situation: I mean, on the other hand, there are techno parks that exist in many areas. You know, what I see most in that area, as the Istanbul MP, is that after the Osmangazi Bridge, there's a sign that appears to be passing through the Valley of I.T.; it's actually a sign, and when you look at it, it's empty. Why is it empty? Because Istanbul is a two-and-a-half hour away from the rush hour -- when I'm looking -- and that's why companies don't come there, all in various centers of Istanbul, here, in Maslak Fellasta, in Beşiktata, in Altunizade, in Kadıköy, in some places. But it's not like it's an information valley or something, just by declaring a specific land..... and describing it as the Valley of Information. That's how it is, and it's not possible for you to announce it. Also, there's another issue, which is the main focus, which is to think about: technological development doesn't happen with tax exemptions for companies. Technology is ultimately produced by science; it produces people equipped with science and science. Now, if you expect tax exemptions to give companies some rights, then you're wrong. That's not possible. So you've even taken out the Ministry's name today, and you're legalizing it with this offer, and then you've entered the apps that will destroy all the scientific centers, and then you think that when you apply tax exemption to companies, you're going to make technological breakthroughs. That's not possible either. Now, science first happens in free college, autonomous college. Colleges need to be autonomized; they need to be made into science nests. What are you guys doing? What you're doing, what you're actually doing to colleges, that photo right there, it's very clear. So you're in power now, handcuffing the doors of colleges. Now, in a place where universities are being turned from one side to police stations, police stations, where students there are trying to get their free opinion, their opposition perspectives, you can't view these as science fields, you can't take advantage of them that way, it's not possible. Fear not the disciples, fear not the free thought of the disciples, fear not the opposition structures of the disciples. The mind that questions creates science, the mind that questions science, and that's where you can get results, and that's the only way you can develop technology. But you're aiming to cuff the interrogating mind, which doesn't give you that kind of technological development. On the other hand, there's war technology, which is the first of 23 negative effects in research on the negative effects of technological development on human life. Because of the technological developments recorded, atomic bombs, long-range missiles, chemical weapons, weapons of mass destruction, nuclear weapons, drones are a technological foundation of academic, scientific environments working on this issue, all in dangerous classrooms for humanity. We all know that the policy of power is not a peaceful policy. We're dealing with a government that's become a problem with almost all of its neighbors and is constantly bragging about war technology from here. What, though, should we boast? It's education technology that we should be bragging about -- that we're living in the Covid process. So, where are we with education technology? Here, we've all seen the state of the EBA. Our educational system, which is currently unphysical in schools, has collapsed as a whole with the collapse of the EBA. About 6.5 million people -- students, teachers -- are said to have failed to reach the EBA, and there are many teachers and students who have no Internet. These are not in certain parts of the country. We all know there are people in Istanbul who can't even get to it, and there are a lot of press. There are families who don't even have computers and television, so I'm afraid these educational technologies are not an area where the necessary investment is being made in our country, not an area of importance. We know what the EBA has become. We know that an 8 - year - old Chanar Mert, who was unable to reach the EBA in Istanbul, went up to the roof to solve the problem and fell from there and lost his life. And his father, Mert the Leader, says: "My son couldn't even open the computer door that the computer took. What happened happened to our child. The EBA can't bring my son back or anything. Education was free, education was equal to everyone, he asks. This pandemic process was best shown to us that education wasn't free and it wasn't delivered equally to everyone. There's a privileged class, and there's a society at home that has never had access to television, computers, the Internet. Now, I said this happened in Istanbul, and we've been through this in many parts of the country. Now, on the other hand, there's an invoice for this, so there's an invoice on the Internet, electric bills, so there's a bill that comes to families using this technology. And all of that seems to be the problems that stand in front of us. In this sense, companies need to develop these children beyond tax cuts, and support for these children is important, but with that support, these children can participate in scientific contributions and develop technology. Also, you have to ask this: the World Bank gave Turkey $160m in loans to build a remote education infrastructure, which was a support that came from Peyderpey; where was this support used? At the very least, this loan could not be used for teachers and students who could not access the Internet, the computer. Another important issue is brain draining. So there are educated students in Turkey who can support technological development, students who have to go abroad, especially to Western countries and America, because there are no environments for intelligent young people to be raised and to be kept in Turkey. Now, there's been a study of the causes of this brain migration. This is a study of institutions such as the World Bank, TÜSİAD, YÖK, Eskişehir Osmangazi University, and the reasons for this brain migration are listed as follows: Economic reasons 2) Political reasons 3) The reasons for education are based on the request of foreign language education. Now, when you look at these four important headlines, they're all essentially the result of the wrong policies of power when it governs the country. So when a child, a student, a young person is leaving Turkey, they're leading to what we call brain migration, which is why they take priority. The political reasons in Turkey, however, are, in fact, all of the economic reasons and the difficulties in the educational system are due to political reasons, the way and the understanding of governance of those who run the country. If these problems are resolved, if merit is based on it, that child will prefer to stay in Turkey, stay in his own country, prefer to live on his own territory, unless he has a concern about finding a job for himself. But he knows that if I don't have a political background, sir, if I don't have someone close to power, I don't have a chance of getting a job no matter how many colleges I've already finished. Now, political reasons for preventing this brain migration -- democratic, rights and freedoms -- are being said, and on the other hand, it's being proposed to turn universities into a center of attraction and boost their dignity. Here, from universities handcuffed to the door, there's no science, there's no respectable college, and young people here are looking for an opportunity to leave this country. Now, three of Turkey's universities are entering the first 500: Boğaziçi University, ODTÜ and İTÜ. Now, these universities are never free of the operation, so here's the university, handcuffed to the door, in the 197th row of the world. So we only have three universities in the first 500, the first of which is Bosporus University, but the first of which is the Bosporus University, which is, you know, with the vice president and the trustee appointment, you want to end the whole career and prestige. From here you will find no people to work in those areas. All of these people will go for what we call brain migration, and they will find a way to live abroad and work. So that's where we turn around and bump into power in the Republic of Turkey, that's the wall of democracy, rights and freedoms. So no matter how much you invest, no matter how much you discount companies, you can't stop bumping into the wall of democracy, rights and freedoms. Instead of developing rights and freedoms and democracy in order to get through this wall, you make it your goal to hit that wall and turn back from there, and that's how it's always been done; you've hit that wall, you've hit that wall, but you've chosen to come back from that wall instead of opening it, even though the door can be opened. So, the problem of democracy, rights and freedoms that are now happening in our country is the same way, and it's getting worse and worse. And with your understanding, from that point of view, you have no chance of getting out of here. Now, the owner of the company that produced the BioNtech vaccine with his wife is an Alevi citizen from Uğur Şahin Alexanderun. If he hadn't left the country and gone to Germany, would he have had a scientific opportunity to produce this vaccine if he had stayed here? It's not possible because the Flames are being tagged in this country. Here, in Tokat, the neighborhoods and districts are being tagged. So, along with the case in Yalova, from 2012 to this side, 37 different places, the Alevis have been tagged, and their homes have been marked. Every time we ask the Home Secretary, we say, "Look, we don't look at it with bad intentions, we don't look at it with bad intentions." Yeah, it could be a kid's job, like you said, it could be a couple of drunks, it could be an evil people's job, it could be all of them. Someone in the neighborhood couldn't get a shot of someone, could have done it. But you have to make a public statement. I add that case to the question motion every time, every case, and I give it again, and so far none of it has been answered. Come on, you didn't answer me, and you don't go public. In these 37 cases... 37 cases: 37 different markings from 2012 to this side, 37 separate dates, 37 different areas. Now, you make a statement to the public about these things, you say: "Ya, look, don't worry about it, citizens, as a result of this, this is what happened, the person who did it was taken into custody for, and so on and so on and so forth. Now, all these statements aren't being made. Yeah, we're making a question proposal, there's no answer. Now, when that happens, democracy in the country and all that. I'm going to say, Gökhan Sun. Gökhan Sun is a child of a socialist family. Gökhan Sun was abducted from his workplace on January 20th. We haven't heard from him for six days, six days. The whole family's screaming, the whole family, the neighborhood, his friends. They're going to the police, the prosecutor's office, everywhere, and they're saying, "Where's Gökhan?" Now, in broad daylight, there's surveillance. Where did we get the surveillance footage? The family found the surveillance footage with their own means. He took the surveillance footage from the workplace, and they took it to safety, and they took it away. It's a camera recording. The getaway vehicle was determined, the direction of the vehicle was determined, the entire area was surrounded by MOBESE. The whole area was monitored, but Gökhan Sun was not found for six days -- in a nail. We don't know, we don't know, they said. At six o'clock this morning, he was left blindfolded in Basakşehir, in Istanbul, blindfolded. And he's explaining his situation today with a press release, saying that they tortured him for six days. I was kept in an unknown place with my eyes closed, naked. Cold water, electricity, a so-called vertical grave, and a rough beating -- which there are also traces of -- was applied. I've been offered cooperation. Work with us, work with us. Now, what's it like? We're asking the Home Office, do you have this? We don't know. But at that time, his uncle in Tokat was wanted, and he was said to have come to the village? Is he here? It's like they don't know. Yeah, we know where he was abducted, we know where the vehicle was headed. Well, in that case, you'll see, you'll find the license plate, you'll find it in two days, you'll find it in one day. But these cases happen. That's what young people are exposed to in Turkey. Now, in a place that's been exposed to all of this, we're talking about science, technology, development, and that's where you crash into these walls.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0219par0088	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0218par0089	As long as this is happening in this country, you can invest as much as you want, try to improve your technology, and you can't do that, because you can't keep people in the country who are going to develop that technology, who are going to use that technology, because the country is completely turned into a prison. Speaking of prisons, I give my regards to all our comrades, our friends, our friends, and our friends, who are on hunger strike and imprisoned, especially in Figen Yüksekdağ, Selahattin Demirtaş. Thank you, everyone.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0220par0093	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Tahsin Tarhan. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0221par0096	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the entire Republican Law Proposal for the Law on Technology Development and Changes in Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Members of parliament, the development zones are the heart of high-tech technology, the center of high-income production, qualified education and long-term investment. Technoparks are the areas of our country's industry and exports that we expect to be the busiest contributors. The political industry and trades run by the government during the epidemic has led to debt. At a time when savings and investment deficits endure, it is clear that the current idea of industry is not sustainable. Instead of a high interest-laden economic model that wastes the country's resources to convert debt with debt, we need to move on to a new model that is export-oriented and multiplies high, giving production priority. Today in industry, let's grow up at high rates at all costs. We should, on the basis of efficiency, discuss reshaping industry, reducing import addiction, using the workforce properly, keeping trained labor in the country. We need to move up the merits, not the partisanism of science and technology, and consider education the most fundamental part of the new development strategy. Members of parliament, in foreign policy, with a fight with each country, with an attitude against every voice in domestic policy, with a few side-oriented tenders, court decisions tied to phone calls from court advisers in the back rooms, conflicting journalists with opposition politicians, not expected to launch in technology from a domestic power with the Mafia. With the right industrial policy and the understanding of technology, the techno parks are flattened in the democratic law state, which, with a radical reform, can reverse its legal, brain size, and not according to its king, operates according to its rule. Not every incoming minister should set new goals and rules. Industry and technology are only comfortable in a stable market system. Otherwise, today's industry policy remains a noise that every industry plays on separate strings. Dear lawmakers, this 25-point proposal was signed by EC PARTY MPs and rushed to the commission. When the proposal was discussed in the commission, we found that there was really no law text that would contribute to industry, science, technology, without a comprehensive study of who was prepared by whom, a law text that had been modified in the commission in 6 percent of the 25 articles. Congressmans, we have finally begun negotiations with the General Assembly on the draft of the law that has been held for months at the General Assembly. We don't object to this draft of the law, but we think we should work together to change some of the articles. Our biggest objection is the way he made the law. The Law on 25 articles of law, the Law on Technology Development Areas, Public Contracting Law, Electronic Signing Law, Turkey's Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the Law on Rooms and Stock Exchanges, Research, Development and Designal Actions changes 8 different laws, such as the Turkish Trade Law. We've said it many times before, we're against the law of the bag. The bag law system is a system that locks on living. If you put every law in the same bag, there won't be any credible law left. This method is wrong in terms of practice. Without a radical change in industrial policy, without a change of mind, it simply won't do any good without you leaving power. Once again, entrepreneurs will engage in tax incentives, extensions, and small employment benefits. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the articles of the law proposal, it is not right to extend the Ministry's discretion in Article 2 of the proposal. The programmes to support will no longer be determined by the law, but by the regulations of the Ministry. I ask you, is the Ministry an institution that produces scientific knowledge? There's no telling who the support will be based on. The Ministry will give it to whoever he sees fit to give it to. This practice leads to the question of merit, favourability, and inequality of support. The same substance allows incubation centers to be established outside techno parks. It disrupts the integrity of centers, renders science-producing centers dysfunctional; it violates the rationality of techno parks. It's been done in the same wrong colleges before. Colleges have turned into ladders in major cities. Under the apartments were colleges, universities. This item must be removed from the proposal. We're looking at Article 3 of the Third Amendment, which gives the President the power to abort the technology development area. The president can cancel the contract for the business he doesn't want. How correct it is for us to give the President authority over matters that have no expertise. It's against democratic understanding to have authority in one hand. This arbitrary attitude disrupts the production of scientific knowledge, while the goal should be the incentive to produce scientific information. The fourth article contains an arrangement that if production stops for a year, except for an overwhelming reason, the technology development area will lose its property. The department's control and sanctions on companies are already heavy, and its termination without a warning is against technological development. It's important to set a transition period and give the firms here time to produce. Companies with the 6th article are obliged to transfer 2 per cent of their earnings to a passive account. If you don't, I won't give you tax exemption. The companies are forced to do so. It's not enough. The president is being given another authority. This time, the president can reduce the profits to 0, or increase them to 5 times as much. Is there such a authority, Mr. Lawmakers? Giving someone such excessive authority is an abuse of the law, which is incompatible with the understanding of the state of law, against the principle of non-transmitting the authority of law. The Telecommunications Agency has the authority to change the Electronic Signing Law with Article 11. You can change any substance you want with direction. It's called. This authority is granted indefinitely, unconditionally. This is contrary to the principle of the legality of the rule of the Constitution in Article 123, the protection of personal data in Article 20 of the Constitution. Finally, the 19th article reduces the inspection of those who benefit from support and encouragement from two to three years. What's the point of raising it to three years, even two years too long for inspection? In addition, the authority to conduct the audit can be transferred to the executive company. There is a decree, which is not right to share the authority, and the control authority must remain in the public. As it turns out, there are problematic elements to the proposal of the law. Unrestricted powers are given to people who are not experts in their field, such technological development cannot happen. Technology is not to be used for inadequacy. Technological development is the key to the progress of a country. The problematic clauses of the proposal must be arranged according to our proposals. Taking modern steps in technology, providing co-operation in university industrial technology, is a matter of mentality beyond law writing. If the mentality of those who enforce the best law today does not catch the age of those who apply it, if someone is still interested in what the five-year-olds will receive while we talk about Industry 4.0, these laws are condemned to remain on the shelves. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Technology can't take root where democracy has no ground, no law against extremities, no brakes. If even prosecutors have been threatened and the judiciary has been silenced, then the Constitutional Court has ruled Enis Berberoglu twice, and there are judges who have failed to comply with this decision, if politicians, journalists are being attacked, if the Home Office and the Minister of Justice are intertwined, technology and human resources do not develop there. Congressmans, we don't write a brilliant story other than bragging about defence industry, transferring revenue resources to construction, concrete and contractors. In the production industry in early 2020, our exports of high-tech products were only 4 per cent in total exports, while in our total imports, the share of high-tech products is 15 per cent. Unfortunately, our country's manufacturing industry does 33 per cent of its total exports with low-tech technology, 79% of the workers in the manufacturing sector in terms of employment are in medium and low-tech production; only 6 per thousand companies produce 6 per cent and 89 per cent medium and low-tech. In 2021, an energy-deprived power aims to be 49th among 130 countries in the Global Innovation Index. Congressmans, as our democracy deficit grows, so does our current deficit. As the poverty and corruption index progresses in the world's ranking, our industry's quality of growth and efficiency has dropped. The time for us to brag about selling low-tech products is now behind us. The foreign trade deficit has increased from $30 billion to $50 billion in 2020, which is what you're bragging about. While the groom's model already holds no target for the New Economy Programme, the current ministers are also entering the resuscitation race. It's a dream to expect an organized, consistent policy from such a power. If you make predictions that change every three months with extreme targets, you don't serve a permanent investor, you serve a high-interest profiteer. We work hard in industry and make little. We're short on income, and we're owed a lot of money. Every fluctuation in the exchange increases costs every day because we can't produce high-tech goods because there's no trust left in the market. Now face the fact that the industry, the tradesman, the people you're trying to load the bitter prescription, is trying to survive despite this power. It's power that melts the trust our private sector has worked for years in the world. As developing countries point out to us in giving and supporting their own companies, our importer has lost the advantage of competition in the world, both against the melting TL (L) and the rising input costs. In fact, it is necessary to celebrate this power in a way, dear MPs. You've had one successful step in Corona, and that's distance. You couldn't disband five masks when you advised the citizen, distance, cleaning, but you managed to put a long distance between you and the exporter and the industrialist. The shopkeeper waited for support, kept your distance, waited for a reduction in energy in industrial taxes, never disturbed your distance. The exporter and tourist fair industry showed you the markets that escaped, and it waited for incentives, and you never reduced your distance to the business world. But let's face it, you've got five contractors that you don't keep your distance, you've given all the contracts, you've never kept your distance from them. In short, a non-masking government in the coronada boasted that we had avoided the grant that the sectors had been waiting for, that we had borrowed more, that we had reduced the recession in the economy. In the first nine months of 2020, those who took credit to turn the steering water on the market left no rules in the banking sector, and at the end of the year, they blew inflation. During this period, the total increase in loans increased by 38 per cent, while the mortgages increased by 40 per cent and we became first in Europe." You boasted that car loans increased by 58% in the automotive area. The number of people who have given up hope of finding a job has dropped from 600,000 to 1.5 million jobs to 44 per cent, and the percentage of people in education or employment has exceeded 30 per cent. The income per person dropped to levels 15 years ago. The ruling partners are happy to grow out of employment in the industry. In the world where interest travels on the ground, interest is losing the chance of competing with the world under high interest in the business world in the result of inflation. Our national income narrows down by 17%, at best, compared to last year. The numbers reveal the bitter truth. Colleges don't fund technology. In 2018, he spent an average of 4 per cent of 152 university budgets under RD activities. The number of universities spending 15 per cent of the budget and more on RD activities is only 8. College-industrial cooperation is important. The transformation of information produced in college into high-value products is the key to this country's salvation. We're in a bad place in the world, too. Turkey's share of RD activities is low compared to other countries, with approximately $40 billion being spent. Turkey, which is a COBI paradise, is unable to provide large-scale RD spending by large-scale companies. Germany's RD spending is 15 times Turkey's, and even the Volkswagen alone is twice as high as Turkey's. You can make as many laws as you want, increase the number of technology zones, build a technocity in every neighborhood, a university, every street, that doesn't change. As long as we don't transfer more resources to RD and universities, and we don't provide investment opportunities for industry, we'll keep counting. Congressmans, our party has voiced our republic's Call to the Second Century announcement. We must establish a strong strategic planning organization to strengthen our country's development.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0222par0119	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0221par0120	We need to plan a high-tech production model that will bypass the mid-income trap, the mid-tech stalemate. We need to turn on the investment channels. We need to create structural reforms such as law, economy, social security, taxation. We need to establish the National Tax Council. In parliament, we must form a final account commission for his presidency by the opposition. We need to get the Court back on track. As the Republican People's Party, I respectfully salute the General Assembly that we will support the State Development Areas Law Proposal.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit04spe0222par0122	Speeches for the group are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0222par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with Law Proposal 229. The commission is in place. On behalf of the individuals, the first speaker is Mr. Fuat Koktaş, MP of Samsun. Here you go, Mr. Rootstone.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0223par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the State of Technology Development Act and to the Law on Changes in Some Laws. General Assembly, I salute you worthy MPs. The law proposal includes co-ordinating three institutions, including the Ministry of Industry and Technology, the Ministry of Strategy and Budget and the Information Technologies Foundation. It consists of 25 substances, including the activation and executive clause. Intense economics and technology are one of the most important parameters of transition from intensive economics -- technology development areas -- techno parks. In 2001, the technology development zones established by Law 4691 were introduced to a legal basis for the first time. In 2008, the adoption of the Law on Supporting Research and Development Actions in 5746 also made it official for the documenting of RD centers, which contributed greatly to the development of RD and innovation ecosystems. The 2016 RD reform package opened the way for design centres to be supported, as well as R&D centers. The name of Law 5746 has been changed as the Law on Supporting Research, Development and Design Actions, and has been implemented on 1 March 2016. With these amendments, technology, RD and design have been taken in a considerable way. According to this, 87 technology development sites have been established since 2011. 72 of them are active and the rest of the structural construction is almost complete. As of today, the number of companies running an RD study in techno parks has reached 6,335, the number of RD centers operating at 1,243, and the number of design centers operating has reached 363. The number of staff employed at techno-park RD centers was 65,946, 66,469, while the number of staff employed at design centres was 7.824. As we look at this, the total number of employees employed in each of the three centers has reached 140,239. The number of projects completed in techno parks, RD and design centers is 85. It has reached 312. The number of RD projects conducted in the same centers has reached 27.562. Again, the number of patents registered at these centers reached 8.478. The technology development areas include 325 foreign and foreign companies. At the same time, 31 foreign and foreign companies are in the design centers. We can clearly state here that structures created by the Law on Development and Supporting Research, Development and Design Actions No. 4691 are the ecosystems that complement each other. This produced many products that we could call a work product of technopark and RD. The intensive care respirator, which the world is after, along with Covid-19, is native to our country's system design, the first and only MRI imaging device produced by its prototype, and is also being conducted in local and innovative MRI imaging. The first electric, smart, and zero-emissioned excavator of our country, which is also an RD centre, is the first electrical, intelligent, and zero-emissioned excavator of our country, which is produced by our Ministry of Industry, in our RD headquarters, the tunneling machine, called the mole, is the main product produced in our RD centers. Again, with the participation of 300 Turkish engineers, the new generation truck engine, produced by fully innovative technology, which saves between 7 per cent and 10 per cent, was also produced at these centers. We can add our drones, our SIHA, our HURJETs, our HURJETs. In addition, our helicopter engine appears to be products that we can add to that, which have turned into industry, industry, industry. Mr. President, what do we aim to do with the State-of-the-art Development Act and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws? The assessment board, which decided to establish a state-of-the-art development zone, increases the number of competent institutions and organisations operating on technology. The proposal opens the incubator centers, which are part of the major actors of the R&D innovation ecosystem in our country, within the scope of the ministry and under the conditions set by it, to benefit from the same incentives, supports, and exemptions. In addition to the support of entrepreneurs, the permit to open a business place from the relevant administration is being transferred from the ministry to the industrial municipal managers, reducing bureaucratic barriers. The capital funds, one of the most important factors in the ecosystem, are intended to be established and strengthened by resources from the private sector. In addition to the support provided, support for the RD building, workshop, and equipment to be included here is being boosted. In addition to high-velocity RD and innovation activities and increased output from here, PhD students with the terms set by the ministry are also open to support for entrepreneurs who employ RD personnel. The amount of support, incentives and exemptions will be extended, and employment will be provided from those produced. It is intended to become a country that produces technology, not consumes technology, by giving large support for R&D and high-tech investments, where the share of high-end products will be increased. We can increase these goals. International indexes are key factors in determining the investment and preferences of people and organisations who will invest. In these indexes, arrangements for the protection of investors in areas such as the company's company and tax policies are considered in terms of the easyness of doing business and therefore the appropriateness of the investment environment they have. The global movement of international direct investors is also related to the easyness of the countries to do business. Instead of trying to do business by overcoming the challenges of doing business in that country, each company prefers to invest in those challenges in a way that has been dealt with. The decline of the cost of doing business, the time savings, the removal of risks and ambiguities, increasing competition in the market, changing the way businesses behave, are the main goals to ensure the ease of doing business in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our governments know very well that the national steps we take in technology are insurance against global risks and external shocks, focusing on technology, RD and design centers.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0224par0020	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0223par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. We are well aware that Turkey's new growth story will be written with high-end production under the leadership of RD and technology. The lead in this story will be political stability, strong government, innovative private sector and qualified human capital. In the future, every country that strengthens them will have a say in technology and production in the world. Dear lawmakers, we discussed the Law on Technology Development and the Law on Changes in Some Laws on Commissions. I would also like to thank the parties and MPs at the General Assembly, which supported us in the Commission talks. Again, I expect the same support to be discussed in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0225par0025	Let's say hello, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0223par0026	I'll say hi. I'm hoping that the law, with its understanding of how we begin with the first law of the year 2021, will be fast legalized. I salute the General Assembly, wishing that the law would bring blessings to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0225par0029	On behalf of the individuals, the last speaker is Mr. Tacettin Bayır, MP of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0226par0032	I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of Technology Development Areas Law 229 and the entire Law Proposal to Change Some Laws. I salute you all with respect and love. My fellow lawmakers, technology development areas, techno parks, are the center of high technology's heart, added value, quality education and long-term investment. They're the areas we expect to contribute to our country's industry and exports to. In consumption of the highest turnover per square metre, we continue to fight to increase grants and support for the highest technology support in the techno parks, as opposed to a government that thinks that it will be able to beat the coronate by placing industry and trade in loans, which aims at the AVMs. The training, working conditions, and support of investment companies to be employed in techno parks are, of course, valuable steps to get out of the current, current, private sector's high external debt and the trap of medium technology. The Republican People's Party continues to support these regulations to boost technology efficiency in the industry, contribute value to high production and exports. In this regard, our party is favouring all arrangements in the field of RD, investment, incentive, support, employment for technological development areas as a principle. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the problems of techno parks cannot be considered independent of Turkey's major problems in industry and technology policy. Without a radical change in industrial policy, without a change of mind, it simply won't do any good without you leaving power. Technology initiatives will once again engage in tax incentives, extensions, small employment benefits. Foreign policy is fighting with every country, domestic policy, attitude against every voice, contracting order, a number of sides, court decisions connected to the telephone at court, conflict with journalists, opposition politicians, what initiative do we expect from a mob-related government? What local or foreign investor invests in the country for a government that is involved in these relationships? One thinks that if a government still manages science and technology with a cult, a community, a citizen, and a partisan's head, that law is doomed to remain on the shelf. The ladders you ascend in this order, which is distributed according to your king, not by the rules of authority, not by the rules of rank and kinship, but by the conditions of graduation from the same high school. We are faced with a painful fact: We are discussing a law on techno parks at a time when the rise in science, the chancellor and the manager are committed to partisanism or to represent himself as a candidate for the Justice and Development Party prior to the elections. Congressmans, there's an inevitable fact that if we work hard in the industry and make little money, if our debt increases when our income is low, if every fluctuation in the exchange increases our cost in the morning, we can't produce enough high-tech goods, there's no trust in the market. Face it now: The industry, our business, the COBI, the exporters that you're trying to load the painful prescription, is trying to survive despite this power, and they're struggling. If there's still no major collapse -- which I think there is -- it's because of our private sector's resistance and its connections to the world. This power, unfortunately, melts the trust that our private sector has worked so hard for so many years in the world. In summation, this is the legacy of the country's resources, which is causing trust erosion of our companies. Of the 185 countries, we are the 15th highest in inflation. We have the highest inflation rate in countries over 250 billion dollars; 14.03 per cent. Venezuela, Argentina and Iran ahead. While the number of people who have given up hope of finding a job has increased from 600,000 to 1 million 402k, while neither education nor employment has increased by more than 30 per cent, their ruling partners are happy to grow up without employment in the industry 15 years ago. It's not possible to grow without employment, friends. In the world where interest travels on the ground, the cause of interest, inflation. In the deception, our business world has lost its chance of competing with the world under high interest, and our national income is at best narrowing by 17 per cent compared to last year. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, the president's decision today prohibits the use of German car maker Volkswagen and Audi. The volkswagen passat model, specifically used in public enterprises, was asked to be replaced by Ford and Toyota as a priority for the peyderpey Renault. First of all, I must say that I have made this decision in order. I'd also like to stress the fact that the delay of the local car cannot be taken from the domestic car, which is also delayed by the indirect tax and the fact that the tax from imported autos can't be taken from the domestic car. As a businessman who loves his country, his nation, his flag, the importance of domestic production and the necessity of the use of domestic property, I also call on the party President Erdoğan, to set an example for this issue: Mr. Party President, come on, let's replace the president's vehicle with the domestic car produced in Bursa. Let's start with ourselves, start with the people who need to set an example for change. How did we get here? What was the real factor in this decision? It was a move against the decision of the Volkswagen, who had been prepared to invest in Manisa. On 3 January 2020, Minister of Industry and Technology Mustafa Varank came out of this business, not us, but Volkswagen lost. As a businessman who's been doing business for 42 years, I say this is the wrong approach. When you need an investor, you admire someone in the palace, you imitate them like your brother, like Kasympaşa, and you find no foreign capital, no local capital, no business people to invest in the country. (HPP) You are the Minister of this country, it must be your duty to develop and strengthen your ministry before anyone else, and that should be your first priority. Dear lawmakers, the issue of vaccines that have been debated so much lately is coming to us everywhere we go. Even if it's not about our ministry, I can't help but mention it. There's been a ranking about this vaccine issue; it's true, it's not enough, but I've got one thing on my mind: I'm a man with grandchildren, I have two grandchildren, he goes to school.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0227par0043	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0226par0044	The teacher's place in the vaccine table was stage two, row seven, and as soon as I saw it, it was gone. I have two grandchildren, so, as their grandfathers, I don't send these kids to school before these teachers are vaccinated, they're my walnut drinks because everything I have, I don't send them. So when it's not even known how many doses of Covid-19 vaccines came in, the vaccine that should have been administered in the form of two doses 14 days apart means that teachers will start training face-to-face without vaccinating, that's how I see it. How are you going to open schools before teachers are vaccinated? I'm asking the current government, and I'm sorry to say I don't trust a lot of things, but at least I want to trust the teachers we're going to trust with our grandchildren. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit05spe0227par0047	I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-01-26sit06spe0227par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Sixth Session of the 41st Union. We continue negotiations with Law Proposal 229. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal 236, which is ranked in the second place. 2. The Joint Committee of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop's Republic of Turkey and the Palestinian National Government under the temporary Free Trade Agreement between the Palestinian Liberation Organization; the Appliance of Basic Agriculture Products and Economic Products and the Approvement of Reconstructions in Fisheries Protocol 2/2020 I's Required Table I and the Interim Free Trade Agreement of the Interim Free Trade Agreement (Agreement for Humanity) and the Approvement of the Interim Trade Agreement (Agreement on Trade and Agreement for Relationss) (Agreement on Humanity and Agreement for Compromisement on the Relations) 2/20 [[S. Number:236]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Law Proposal No.235, which is ranked in the third place. 3. Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop's Law Proposal (2/2822) and Foreign Commission Report on Approvement of Agreement on Energy and Mining Areas between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan [[S. Number:235]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Proposal No. 156, ranked in the fourth place. 4. Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop's Law Proposal (2/2372) and Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the EFTA States and the President of the President's President of the Amendment [[S. Number: 156]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other work on our agenda, it is Wednesday (January 27, 2021) that we discuss legal proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night, friends.
