tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, according to the programme, we will continue talks on the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD Commission? He's in position. Last year's 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal was adopted as Article 13 of the Union's Charter. MADDE 14- (1) In this Law and other laws, the President determines the use and transfer of the powers given to the President or the presidency for the implementation of the budget. Mr İbrahim Halil Oral is a member of the Ankara MP on behalf of the PTA Party Group who wants to speak on the 14th article. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on Article 14 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we're budgeting under the roof of the Veterans Assembly, but the government has never considered how much its budget under this roof has helped the city where it met after leaving the gates of Ankara-Chankaya for 20 years. (Applause from the GOOD PARTY) Ankara was orphaned and orphaned during the AK PARTY rule period. Ankara has been the city of decades-old subway projects, dinosaur sculptures, millions of dollars spent, years-old infrastructure during the EC PARTY rule. The move of bank headquarters, financial institutions, Central Bank to Istanbul is the work of the EC PARTI. Ankara has been evacuated. His problems haven't been solved, just as they've been hollowed out. In my speech at budget talks last year, all of the problems I've expressed are still a problem today, almost a year later. Respected MPs, the ChaYKUR Gate project on the road to Samsun, which began in 2016 in the District of Elmadağ, has not been completed for five years. Again, the closed swimming pool project of the Ministry of Youth and Sports continues to rot in Elmadağ. The urban transformation is still not a step further. As we have learned in response to the question we asked in the commission, the issue of the extension of the DCP, which the people of Lalahan and Elmadağ specifically requested, is not included in the planned projects. The Ministry must take this matter on the agenda immediately. On top of that, Appledağ and the Law on Anonymity Company of Machine and Chemical Industries met immigration and unemployment. After MKE became an anonymous company, 122 families were forced to emigrate from Elmadağ. Although the factory manager said they would replace the workers with the locals of Appledağ, and the workers staying in the factory, this did not happen, only 20 people were hired. Remember, the Appledağ that you have made poor is not without it, but we will take care of Elmadağ until the end. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Members of parliament, the EC PARTY is a government that manages to victimize people while investing in Ankara. For example, Ankara-Nünde Highway is an investment, although it is not used for its fee, but while the Ankara-Ninde Highway is being built, the farming and livestock activities of the villagers around the route have not been considered. Many villagers have to go a long way to get to the other side of the highway. In particular, Lakehead and Bala's villages are victims of this. The most extreme example is the Belcharcak villagers, the villagers who can take their animals to the meadow in half an hour before the road is built are now able to take their animals in two and a half hours. In this regard, our citizens who applied to the Ministry and the E.R.G. have not even received an answer or even been threatened. A peasant is the master of the nation, and it is no one's place to threaten the peasant. ▪ Take out your eyes while you're doing your hair. This should be what you call making the expression a state policy. Honorable MPs are the largest land-owning district in Ankara. But the problem of irrigation, which turns into a snake story, is still unresolved. In September, we finally learned from Mr. Pakdemirli of Agriculture that the construction of Gökpınar Dam was completed and that the bidding would be made for the irrigation lines. Given that the dam was completed in 2017, the foundation was laid down in 2015, it is hard not to think that the irrigation lines would create a new snake story. I hope we're wrong, but with this performance, I don't think you'll ever be able to complete agricultural watering in Poland until 2023. He is also a Polish farmer, a mirror of Turkish agriculture. Before I spoke, I spoke to a few of our farmer friends, who were all complaining about the electricity costs in irrigation, the price of fertilizer and seed; they were all crying blood. They said the price of wheat was announced, but until it was announced, he took the wheat out of his hand to pay off the farmer's debt. And he who was broken like a frog's throat, until the water came into the stream, was our farmer, and again he was our Polatite. You abandoned the Polish farmer to his fate again, leaving him in need of poverty again. The Polish farmer has to give his land to hobby gardens in the face of these sacrifices. Our farmland has been exposed to unplanned construction, which unfortunately has been tolerated by the town hall. In short, the people of Poland have a lot to deal with. To the power that is blind and deaf: You will go, and we will give Ankara what it deserves. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Honourable MPs are the only capital without a subway line at the European airport. There's been an AK PARTY in central power for 20 years. At the same time, Ankara was ruled by a mayor of the AK PARTI. This government, which has left Ankara barren in subway investments, has been dragging its way through the subways for years, is openly hostile to Ankara. Ankara has been hostile to Ankara, who has not been able to bring Ankara to a stadium where international tournaments can be played. Where is this May 19th stadium? It's like a snake story. In the last few weeks, I've had a chance to look again during our visit to the Turkish Sports Writers Association Ankara branch. Pigeons are being fed at the station of May 19th. The AK PARTI government is trying to condemn Ankara, which it dreams of becoming a centre of civilization, to the darkness of the Middle Ages. Fortunately, the Ankaran has shown in local elections that they are not willing to do so. There are many suspects and reservations regarding the nation's garden project planned in the Imrahor Valley. This promise, which was threatened by a freak project called "Kanal Ankara" during the previous Twitter troll mayor's term, is now facing a project where water resources, natural life, can face serious damage. This project, which we suspect is being moved to construction and housing projects under the construction of the treeworks and ▪people's garden, has been scientifically determined to destroy Ankara's water supply on the Eymir-Mogan line, disrupting natural life and disrupt the land structure with construction. On top of that, the zoning plan has been cancelled. However, the AK PARTY government insists on making that mistake. In the valley of Imrahor, there are no Ankarans opposed to a project based on natural beauty or just treeing, but we are opposed to projects that will be built, construction, and deforestation. As we always say, we're not against the project, we're against the Ranta. We will never sacrifice Ankara's nature to the landscape needs of construction companies, to the Rant accounts. Dear lawmakers, it is never acceptable for our Ministry of Culture and Tourism not to sign any work that will make a sound, except for the modest programs led by our municipality of Haymana today, when we realize the 100th anniversary of the Sakarya Victory. It is a mistake in history and our martyrs that the victory of Sakarya, which has been halted for hundreds of years, has not been put into extensive activities that will bring our Haymana, our Polat, and our Ankara to the forefront. This is also the biggest zero on the report card of Ankara's allergic AK PARTY. At the very least, these counties must be named after the Haymana-Polatlı Historical National Park in the historic National Park of Sakarya. Our Ministry of Culture and Tourism is already very reluctant to strengthen Ankara tourism. As I've brought up before, Cypriot Village Canyon and its surrounding natural beauty are essential to strong recognition and tourism.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0003par0029	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0002par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, these natural wonders see the dust, the smoke of the quarry instead of the tourist. In short, Ankara has been dispossessed during the AK PARTI rule period. Hopefully, we'll turn this movement around in the first election, and we'll get the capital of Ataturk. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] I thank you with these thoughts, wish our nation well, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0004par0036	Kayseri MP İsmail Özdemir has requested a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0005par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on Article 14 of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2022, with the love and respect of our beloved nation, watching us at the beginning of their screens. It is clear that the world is in a rapid transformation process in almost every area of the world during the time we are in it. It is fundamentally important to what areas and how this transformation process follows, but also to what position and how our country is affected by the same processes. At a time like this, it would be right to address the energy issue first. In the late 19th century, after the use of coal as fuel in some machines and systems, the discovery of oil led to a new era of humanity. Throughout the 20th century, oil, as the main and most strategic energy source, was not only a source of energy needed to move all kinds of vehicles, but also a value that creates the backbone of economies and shapes politics. In fact, up until recently, there were countries, especially in the Middle East geography, who were trying to control the global oil market at the heart of the occupation and civil wars. The oil crisis about 50 years ago even managed to drag the world into a total economic depression, followed by military intervention and coups that affected both regional politics and the progress of global politics. Now the oil, which caused both World War II and the strategic fields of World War II, and the target geography, is now suffering for the sake of it, is no longer a priority for mankind. Especially with the impact of the climate crisis, most countries will soon stop using oil. In the new era, the course of energy transformation points to a process where electricity comes forward in warming for the need for natural gas, movement and delivery. The next phase of this process will bring another time when hydrogen will be used as fuel. The second process of transformation after energy brings to mind the development of technology. Instead of simple mechanical systems, the world began to experience the time when machines had the ability to think and act on its own and even do all the work that a human does. In addition, humanity has now succeeded in creating a virtual world and has access to all kinds of operations, primarily through communication, information, and services offered in the same field. The size of the virtual world has become so vast that all of our basic needs can be carried out through the same medium, from health to all kinds of official records and even financial transactions. Our commitment to the virtual world has now been brought to the forefront of a new world with new systems known as the "sanal reality" in the near future, while our commitment to the virtual world is merely a receiving area of our daily needs. According to this, humanity will have its own character in the virtual world, an artificial visual, and the character that represents it, the constant link that it creates through virtual reality, will begin to live in the virtual world. Already these studies are concentrated, some technology companies have even begun to sell land in the world where they're building through virtual mediums, and they've promised that it's possible to make money while living in the virtual world again. At this point, it is useful to point to the economic developments as the title of the third transformation. In particular, the reserves that began with gold and silver in terms of their payment systems, a new model, called electrometrics, or ▪Kripto money, appeared after time to be used in mines and paper. The increasing impact of the virtual world has not only affected the financial systems, but the daily needs are being met, and at the same time, crypto reserves have begun to multiply in terms of investment resources. The fact that some countries have entered into crypto systems as reserve currency at the same time and have declared it official again shows how serious the coming stage has become. These transformation processes in the fields of energy, technology and economics are increasingly affecting political systems, but in essence, the global system itself. There is no doubt at the beginning of the main reasons why the world is moving rapidly towards a multipolar structure, not a single or bipolar one today, is the effect of transformation in the same fields. The transformation compels countries to produce politics and policies for the new era, while interests and expectations are equally shaped. For the same reasons, the competitive area is no longer only in the areas of land, sea, and air superiority, as its new centers of space, global and regional competition are next to the virtual world. This also puts the opening of new fronts in inter-state relations and the establishment of the two places of superiority on the bet as a national security paradigm. If it is political destruction and new circumstances that are affected by other topics, of course, it is imperative that society and individuals also experience transformation in their attitudes, behavior and habits. In reality, this is a threat to humanity itself. The beliefs, values, needs, and needs are all under intense damage and threat to the fast-watching transformation process. Honourable lawmakers, under the circumstances, it is important how our country welcomes the transformation process, what it does, and what it must do. In the field of energy and technology, it is clear that our country has successfully met the present period in terms of transformations, and is much more successful in comparison to the breaking of similar agendas in the past centuries. Moreover, with investments and follow-up policies, Turkey has demonstrated that the years of the first quarter of the 21st century are also active in the development of energy and technology. In addition to increasing investments and potential for our renewable energy sources, our new natural gas sources in the Black Sea and other possible reserves indicate that we met the energy transformation correctly, at the right time. Innovative efforts in terms of important energy storage systems also increase our success rate. In the huge fluctuation in economic and political areas at the global level, it has been possible for each country to maintain and develop the stability it needs for our country, according to us, by means of the presidential government system. Besides, the main issue is how the transformation process that affects all humanity will affect our nation as a free and community. Because ill-intentional advances, which are unregistered and in a way allow us to interact with minds and even bodies, also affect individual health, social peace, national culture, and our backs. In this context, it is vital that we start a process of development that will protect our faith, values, and traditions, in every field, against the threat of transformation, not just for today, but also for our future. We have the obligation to protect and train our children from the age of children, especially when it comes to the danger of transforming generations into a structure that can remote control and only apply what is requested. Human history clearly shows that conscious, believing, willing societies have always stepped forward to deal with all sorts of artificial and natural threats and have been able to achieve their goals. To bring the Turkish nation to its rightful place, to have the power to shape not only these times but also the future, but to preserve the high qualities that are in our character as a nation, while reading the development of the age correctly and implementing the efforts needed in time. Our republic, which we vow to share forever, can only achieve its goal with understanding that can show great vision and determination. The promise of righteousness is rare, not rare, but rare, which came to us from ancient times, from Kutadgu Bilig. At such a time, the promise of righteousness will shed light on our way. I hereby renew our support for the budget as the National Movement Party, and salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation with love and respect.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0006par0049	Hakkari MP Sait Dede has requested a statement on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Grandpa.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0007par0052	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the 4th and final budget from the palace. I salute the General Assembly and our people. This budget deepens the current revenue distribution, injustice, and increases the tax burden of laborers, poor people, as in every court budget. Instead, public resources take from the workers' pockets and transfer them to employers, employers, allies, contractors as incentives, bonus support, treasure guarantees, interest. And again, it's based on increasing war spending in the name of defense and security. See, between January 1st and October 30th, 2021, at least 104 of our citizens attempted suicide for economic reasons, and 76 of our citizens died. At this point, I wonder what kind of economic success anyone can talk about. Even according to TÜİK data, food inflation -- even according to TİK data -- reached 29 per cent per year, housing inflation by 21 per cent. There are new increases in gas, mazota, autogas, electricity every day. The hunger limit rose from $2,590 TL to $3,100 from the beginning of the year until October. At the same time, the poverty limit increased from 8.436 TL to 10.100 TL. Since the beginning of 2021, the cost of dollars has been over 70 per cent. For 2022, the royal budget, which is estimated at 9.27 Turkish liras, has already become a bitch with the current dollar between 14 and 15 euros. This budget, described by Mr. Fuat Oktay as an executive budget, does not even have a citizen. How is it a citizen-oriented budget that has 57 billion dollars for agriculture and animalism, 116.4 billion for defence and security, all covered and reserve funds for the presidency, some pencils for domestic and external security, and 212 billion dollars for non-registered spending? Those who do not give up the principle of saving from the workers' most basic needs, those who intervene by suspending the Constitution and laws to suppress these right demands when it comes to the demands of the people, those who detain the students who say, "We can't help it." As for those who detain the students, they open the mouth of the people, such as intelligence, defence, safety, and forgiveness. In this latest budget prepared by the AKP government, there are also pencils prepared for the needs of domestic and foreign capital. The situation is dire; the exchange reserves are in place, and the wind is blowing. Look, we can consider investment opportunities in health, industry and food sectors in the United Arab Emirates of Turkey. A phone traffic is launched immediately after saying, and eventually, the Abu Dhabi delegation is welcomed by their spiritual leaders at the palace. The safe is empty, I need money to be transferred to the side. Congressmans, you will all remember that in recent days, the Prime Minister's grace, Turgut Özal, answered the question, "How will the officer live on such a small salary?" Now, we're dealing with executives who've crashed into multiple public institutions, who've received more than one salary. The court's officers raised the bar by moving this phenomenon very high. The whole of Turkey and the world have seen what the Diyarbakır trustee, who brought down 1 ton of pistachio to its tripe, has done with a complete Lale Age, and most of its applications, Sultan III. A life far more spectacular than the life of Ahmet and Sadrazam's son-in-law İbrahim Pasha, a floating palace, a winter palace, a state-of-the-art car, white tea, and a waste of counting. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Members of parliament, we see another example of how to crash into public resources, public budgets, in trustee practices. Not to mention the corruption of these extortionists who were appointed to the will of the Kurdish people. The AKP's rule of law against Kurdish people does not even bother to search for a legal cover anymore. Look, there was $4m in the city's vault when the municipality of Yükselova lost trustees on March 16, 2016; on March 31, 2019, when our mayors came back in office with the majority of the people's votes, how much did they have? There were 680 million debts; that's what the trustee did in three years. A debt in pens that won't even be found in a city hall. See, just as the cost of attendance and representation, what this trustee in the court mentality, which spends 580 billion dollars a year in a county. Now, we don't know how much you owe, but based on your trustee apps, it's not that hard to guess. In Hakkari, the situation is no different from the state of Turkey. In Hakkari, when the municipality was re-elected from the trustees by the majority of the people's votes, our co-chairs launched a judicial process of corruption during the trustee period, but the reassigned trustee dropped the corruption cases, so you stole them first, then you missed judicial control. Look, these trustees know what to do besides corruption, let me share it with you. Every trustee is immediately put into a study by every trustee, who works in harmony with the local community, who steals a piece of the cake, stays silent, and does exactly what he says, and often more than the king does, and they identify it and take it with them, according to their research. So it's not just for the elected, it's for the officers there, it's for the employees. They're taking someone from other institutions to the municipality, so when the governor or governor is assigned to the municipality, he brings with him officials from the governorship and the governorship to the municipality. For example, other agencies are brought in -- managers, science managers, environmental managers -- people who are not competent, incompetent from the district and governorships. Of course, in this case, they get a double salary and use all the resources in the municipality for their own influence. Now, look at our municipalities, talk to the public, and you'll hear what these robbers are doing, and you'll hear the complaints of the citizens. For example, even when you're driving around the neighborhood, you're going to see zero asphalt in front of these people's homes, while the roads of Dilevova or Hakkari are covered in dirt. Our people who watch us at the beginning of the screens have a beautiful saying: "The fish stinks from the top." You will eat dragon fruit in your palace and see much of the square for the trustee of Diyarbakır, who will also eat food, which will bring down 1 ton 600 kilograms of peanuts to the stomach. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The moral breakdown that has worn out human values as far as it can. They stole scraps from Hakkari County Special Administration. Last week, two administrators were caught stealing coal from a high school in Turkey's southeastern province. Here's the situation you've brought the country into, where the manager steals coal, and the university chancellor takes his 29th son from 31 people to his staff for the research worker. Look, speaking of Hakkari University, you can't pass without talking about High School. A university college was inaugurated by university officials, but guess where it opened? An apartment they rented. Yeah, they hung up a college sign in an apartment and said, "Good luck to our people." They've probably rented an apartment or an apartment. In the district of Hakari, where the school coals were stolen, taken to college on staff, and the fight in food and transport tenders was about investigation files at the courthouse, how AKP executives and TUGVA officials split the tenders, or rather how they fought each other to get more shares, you pay the student's parents to pay the cleaning staff fees in schools. Turn it down a little, and do not be a burden to the people you have made poor. See, on one hand, such corruption, thefts, and public resources have been looted, while for twelve, thirteen years, our children have been trying to train at the Mordağı merra of Derecik, where they've taken wood from home to warm themselves. Look, I'll show you pictures of what's called the school, and this is the school where students are now educated, as I've told you from the other side, the corruption of national education, thefts. But what you don't know is that these children will surely destroy this rotten kingdom of yours. Finally, I have a proposal to the AKP's government: change the name of the curfew that you have imposed on the State of Emergency in Hakkari (Kakazi) for 2,30 days because the AKP does all the activities it wants to do in the city, does every meeting, closes the market, but when it comes to HDP, everything is forbidden to Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0008par0069	Mr. Sulejman Girgin is the MP of Muğla who has requested a statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party. Here you go, Mr. Girgin.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0009par0072	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. The heart would want the 2022 budget to be a budget that meets our people's needs, increases jobs, weighs investments, but there's no people in the budget, there's no money, there's raises, there's tax, there's poverty. 42 billion 500 million liras have been earmarked for guarantee payments. This black hole in the budget, unfortunately, exploits our people's taxes and will continue to exploit them. On October 20th, the budget, which was 188 billion dollars, withdrew like a hot-water-washed wool sweater, and dropped to 116 billion dollars, as of today, without holding up to the temperature of the dry, has melted 72 billion dollars in fifty-five days, so more than half of the budget has melted. We can't have this sweater. We say, "You don't understand, we're going to dress it." Dear friends, the dollar is $15 this morning; can you brag about your work? The budget must be re-prepared, not in the form of the additional budget, considering the demands of the people and the workers. Dear lawmakers, once upon a time, there was a network who shook hands with him, who wanted to sell his land, his home, his vineyard, his garden. He asked the network if you inherited the property you wanted to sell, or did you buy it with your sweat? If it's called a legacy, it's called a negotiation, it's called a sweat of the soul. Republic and republican gains were not an inheritance to those who founded the republic, but a sweat, my friends. For the past 19 years, Turkey has been ruled by an unappreciated philanthropist power. You have squandered the Republic's gains in revenge. We will not leave the bank, not the factory, not the business, not the port. You said, "We will not sell it all." And you sold it. You've dried out all the streams of the state, all that's left is tax revenues and the pockets of the citizen, and we're not paying taxes for our breath yet. You've collected more taxes than any government in the history of the republic, $2 trillion 600 billion. And then? You did a $63 billion privatisation. What else? You owe $446 billion to the government. The question is, where did all this money go? There's a miscalculation, as Nasrettin Hoxha said, if the cat is here, where's the liver, where's the cat if the liver is here? What did you do in 19 years? Our young, seedling children have no job, 8 million unemployed. Why are our people in line for bread? In 19 years, you've changed all balances, earned 84 million to enrich a handful of your fellow investors. Be proud to be honorable with your palaces, the summary of your nineteen years of power has turned the corner, the public's stove has been turned off. (A country's reputation is measured not by the value of 1,150 palaces, but by the value of its labor; it is measured by the value of its value to man; it is measured by the value of its value to woman. Dear lawmakers have gone to Secretary of State Qatar and his Qatar counterpart has made a statement that as a citizen of this country, we are ashamed, our pride has been damaged, but the Foreign Minister has shown no resentment at all. Qatar Foreign Minister said that because of economic progress, we are taking advantage of opportunities in Turkey. So Qatar says that these are the bargains of the sinking ship, and of course we will take this opportunity. [[Applause from CHP rows]] O Minister of Foreign Affairs, you who love Qatar, how do you not like these words? How do you put up with those words? Have you come to ask Qatar for money because of an economic nightmare? You see yourself as the leader of the Middle East, and the world has seen the way they see you. You have brought down this country's economy and its honour, and you have swallowed it, and woe to you! Precious MPs, a country's reputation is primarily justice, its democracy, its education system; its economy is the well-being of its people; it's the power of buying; it's the wheels that spin in its factories; it's sown, harvested, watered farmland. They are young men who look to their futures with confidence, not to struggle to get out of the country; they are their art, their artistry; they are their craft, their craftsmanship. If you want to get to know a country, see how people die, says Albert Camus. It's a country where the unregistered teacher didn't die from a construction site. The reputation is that the students who came to Ankara to announce the housing issue and their voices should not be taken into custody by coups. It's a country where women aren't killed in the street. Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, is a country where journalists are not arrested. Dear lawmakers, the minimum wage in January is 383 dollars net, and today, 188 dollars is not even 4 grams of gold. In the past, especially when we were going to the wedding of close relatives, it was considered shameful to wear a quarter of gold, at least half a gold coin would be appropriate. Now it's a luxury to wear a quarter of gold. Do you have business with dollars, or do you get paid by dollars? Let's say we don't have anything to do with dollars, and now you're feeding on eggs, doing business with flour, warming up with coal? The painting is in the middle. If we add minimum wage to basic food prices, it was $2.70 per kilo in January, and 8 lira in December; a 300 per cent increase in a year. Guys, the minimum price is going to be 8.475 liras if we index the price of flour, so if we index the sunflower oil, it's going to be $5,085, and if we index the price of eggs, it's going to be $5,932, and if we index the price of coal, it's going to be $5,650, not domestic coal, not imported. On the other hand, what good is it that last year, at $2.825, the minimum wage this year, is $5,000, and he didn't get it with it? What's important is not the minimum wage increase rate, but how long will the buy power disappear after three months. Guys, think about it, you're getting tested at the hospital, and all the results are wrong. They're treating you with these results, which is exactly what we're going through. Therefore, the minimum wage must be bent and calculated, not by instruction, but by the individual inflation of the people. The minimum wage portion of all wages must be tax-free, and the percentage of the first tax office after minimum wage should be 10 per cent. Dear lawmakers, with a raise coming to all products from A/A, the citizens are moaning under price, but the big radish is in the saddlebag, how's that? According to the controversial data of the TÜİK (TÜİK), the domestic manufacturer price index rate was 54.62 per cent, while the consumer price index rate was 21.31 per cent. The difference between the two is about 33.31 percent historically high. What this means is that the growing input costs of manufacturers are not fully reflected in consumer prices, much of the increasing costs are covered by producers' profits. The biggest danger here is that since these differences will be reflected in sales prices, the salary of the paid employee will melt again in the face of rising prices in just a month or two. Adding tax increases to this, the public will be poorer in the early months of 2022 than they are today, according to 36.2% of the resumption rate. O power, thou hast made the people a pariah in thy native land, strange, in thy native land. You've turned our country into a million-year-old store. You've made our money. They're trying the new economic model, and they'll be upset if it doesn't; your model goes down, your government goes down.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0010par0085	Let's complete it, Mr. Girgin.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0009par0086	I'm completing it. You get paid, what do you lose the most? You'll be crushed under inflation, says the Minister. Here's a tip from us to this mindset that sees the country's economy as a six-pack. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0011par0090	Members of parliament, you have received the request for a statement on behalf of the groups. The first word on behalf of individuals belongs to Karabuk MP Hüseyin Avni Aksoy. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0012par0093	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the General Assembly and the Turkish nation. In my budget speech last year, the Turkish nation alliance is the best way for the nation, for the nation, without inventing, without dividing the country like a watermelon. I told you. Today I saw that our words were not taken seriously because there was a policy in our country of fighting, camping, making enemies of each other and defeating each other. From this honorable bench to you and the Turkish nation, let's stop fighting and take care of our country together. Today, our country's most important problems are: one, the fight against national security, borders and terrorism; two, economic and cost of life; three, fighting pandemics. Congressmans, the real cause of terrorism in our country is the efforts of the imperialists to wear out the Lausanne Agreement. Their goals are dreams they imposed on the Ottomans by the Sevr Agreement a hundred years ago. The Imperialists are actually doing what they did today with their own armies and Greeks, taking care of the terrorists. At our destination, the imperialists are on the lookout in Thrace, in Dedemur, in the islands, in Crete, in the eastern Mediterranean, and in our young homeland, Cyprus. The deals made by subcontractors in the Battle of Salvation along with Greece are not coincidental. The ambitions of imperialists to build new states in Syria and Iraq with terrorists and create new borders are hostile towards the Republic of Turkey. On the other hand, our glorious flag, Can Azerbaijan, is planted on Karabağ. As a result, all around us Sevr's eager ones are back on the move. At this point, the same will happen to those who make friends with the imperialists in Vietnam, Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. Congressmans, people trade with the exchange system first and then with the money. When a country's money is valuable, its economy is strong. If money becomes worthless, the economy can't be handled well. Turkish lira belongs to all of us, national, to all of us, to gain value. We also have to be very careful when opening our economy's main engines to the imperialists to become foreign capital inputs. We must remember that the Ottomans dealt with capitalizations for 500 years. Congressmans, pandemic is a global public health issue. At this point, as a medical MP, the only solution to getting rid of the pandemic is the vaccine, and I invite everyone to be vaccinated. In the process, I wish all citizens who have lost their lives to God's mercy, their family's patience, and my condolences. I also want to thank all my colleagues and health workers who are fighting the pandemic with their lives. Health care is a team business, so let's make sure they all pay for their hard work, no exceptions. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at this point in our country, we, along with 70 of our fellow patriots, have formed the Country Party. The most important purpose of our party is to unite, reconcile, and remove our camped country. I invite everyone who has no problem with Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our country, who has no politics through religion and identity and who opposes all kinds of terror. The light at the end of the tunnel to get out of this darkness is the Homeland Party. From this honorable bench to you a few times... let's destroy the subject's service. Now, once again, by destroying the subject, I say please be yourselves. I address the party leaders: Clear your minds for our country, our nation, our flag and our Turkey, and leave the language of fighting in politics, unite the Turkish nation in love, respect, sincerity. Remember, sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. According to the Country Party, the only way out is neither from the right nor from the left, but directly from the path of Ataturk. Before I finish, I address the Turkish nation: the power and opposition are tired of fighting each other. Let's not rush these tired people, let's retire them, let's put them to rest, let them make peace, let them love their grandkids. They've been talking about getting the goods lately, so let's take them away from the Turkish nation after each other and leave them in the country. The country comes to power, the country stands up. I say neither Cumhur nor Millet is the only way home! I call to the tired power, this is the last stop, the road is clear. I address the tired opposition, the one who's gone, the one who's gone. I speak to the Turkish people: How do you know about this power and this opposition at the Musella stone? Do you give me your blessing? Let us send these ancients by the grace of God. If it had been for the past, it would have rained light on the flea market. I salute the Turkish nation and the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0013par0103	On behalf of the individuals, the second and last speaker is Mr. Hatay MP Atay Mengüllüoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Mengülluoğlu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0014par0105	I salute our working people, who are getting richer and poorer every day. Yesterday, when our party spokesman Sera Kadıgil spoke, I don't speak to these people. When he said, "Well, then we don't listen either," you said. I'll talk directly to you today, so I hope you'll listen very carefully. When your minister, whose work has been a provocation recently, came here and talked about honor and personality, he said: "It is not because we are ministers or MPs, but because we are human beings. " Honor and personality are important. You're just like the Minister told you, you like to get your stories scruffy, but I'll tell you a real story. When I won college, my father and I went to Adana. We talked about a lot of things on the way, and it doesn't matter all the talking, but somewhere he said, "I have nothing to leave you, I only have a name, but it's an honorable name, it doesn't embarrass you at all. I told you, these are very important things, but they're also very fragile. So we all dedicate our lives to protecting them, just like my father, to leave a good name. But there's a fact that none of these things happen just because we want to, that's the sum of what we do in our lives, that's the answer, that's the choices that make us who we are. After all, we all live for honor, and other than that, it's rhetorical, but sometimes I wonder, maybe you have the answer. An honor, what an honor it is, that he insults every day, accuses me of corruption, and if I don't ask the bill, I'll call it a name. It makes it possible to come to the door of the man he says, and to accept his duty. An honor, how can someone who says that stand up and clap and never get hurt? How does a man's honor, his reputation with the Mafia, his reputation in all kinds of dirty affairs, or his corruption, or his involvement in the mob, and he's silent, saying he knows who he is, and saying he knows who he is? When someone else is explaining their field, come here, what did I say? How does it take pride to be scolded by the presidency? When the forest burns, a director who's not even been given the initiative to buy a fire extinguisher doesn't get any credit for that when he's waiting for instructions from the president? We stop and stare at you for a long time. You're getting unfair profits for people who have to collect garbage for a living. It means that more doctors from the best schools in the country want to go abroad in a year, or they want to get their head cut off in a cult hall, all the women who have been killed, all the abused, all the forests that have been taken away from the multinational corporations, the ports are trying to sell to the Qatars you've been trying to sell all over the country, begging for money from the United Arab Emirates, waiting at the American President's door for money, waiting to talk, waiting for my friend Biden. (Applause from CHP and HDP rows) People are in line for bread; gas, diesel 10 lira; even baby food in the market; a deputy says they should take the vegetables and fruit with grain. Another deputy says, "We'll eat onions of bread." Since the factory worker has no money to buy sweets, he brings them home, sets up counters at an 80-year-old retired market, small children deal in mobile sales, people commit suicide out of desperation, your new Treasury Minister -- I hope he doesn't change until the end of the conversation -- you have nothing to lose more than your salary, and I lose everything I have left of my father, he says, even though that one salary is a whole life. And to feed a palace full of blasphemous blasphemous blasphemies, so-called businessmen are given public contracts with dollars, tens of them, hundreds of them; not one of you will be insulted, nor will his face be blushing. Do you know what you're insulted by when you're going through so much? A hand gesture. I mean, after all that's been going on in the country, seeing your hair don't move, people might not have thought you had tiny hearts that you'd be so ashamed of. (CHP and HDP clapping in rows) Anyway, everyone's honor is just curious to themselves. I'll get back to my story. That's 20 years from now. One day my dad and I are going in the car again. I'm at the beginning of the story with my father, my mother and father, sixty-one years old.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0015par0110	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0014par0111	I said that it really bothers me that some people, in the spirit of the time that you created, have made a fortune in a short way, and have spent so much time not knowing what's going to happen even in the next month, despite all the hard work that's been going on. He said: "But no one can speak behind our backs as they speak behind their backs. This is honor, pride; this is leaving a good, clean name." My father never embarrassed me, so I'm living a life so as not to embarrass my son. And I don't expect you to be embarrassed by all this talk, but I assure you, your children will be.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0016par0112	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0014par0113	They'll say, "I wish you'd left us a name instead of leaving us all this wealth and property." So my final word is, we'll ask those who do the reckoning of what this country has done, and those who prefer to be inferior rather than accountable, and if we don't ask, then woe to us!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0017par0116	Boo-hoo!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0018par0117	The request for a statement has been met on behalf of the individuals. Now we're going to question and answer. We're going to do a question-and-answer process for ten minutes; we're going to use five minutes for questions, five minutes for answers. First word, Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0019par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Diyarbakır No. 2. In Lu F-type Closed Prison, our friend Halil Sun, a prisoner with bone cancer, died. Patient prisoners are deliberately left to die by power. Will you release the sick prisoners? TL is also rapidly losing its ability to be a savings tool. In bank deposits, the share of the TL (TL) has dropped to 39 per cent, and the rest is kept in exchange for foreign currency. Except for those who are kept abroad or outside the banks. Does the government, which delivers the TL, plan to lay the consequences of this crisis on laborers as a cheap labor force? In the medium-term program, the dollar was $9.27, and now it's $15. Agriculture was envisioned by 25.8 billion agricultural support. This needs to go up to 41,747 billion. 15 billion of them melted. According to the Budget Act...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0020par0124	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0021par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to an excessive increase in foreign currency, many drugs can no longer be found, nor can the surgeries be performed because medical supplies are not available. Because of this foreign currency crisis, our country has become an open market and has been looted by neighbouring countries. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary if they're still going to continue to pay public-private cooperation projects in exchange? With the country in ruins like this, don't you think you're making the exchange go up by passing the currency to your co-owners? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0022par0128	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0023par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2021, what was the total amount of punishment that the SEC issued, for which companies, for what reasons? What is the reason for the frequent change of president and vice presidents in TÜİK (TÜİK) and Treasury and Finance Ministry? What is the reason for the postponement of the TÜİKbook Statistics of International Migration and the Statistics of Life Tables, scheduled to be published on September 17th, which is scheduled to be published on July 16th, and when will it be announced? Do you have any part in withdrawing the provisions from the Commission for health workers and voting from the General Assembly? Don't you have a budget to give the worker what he deserves?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0022par0131	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0024par0132	Mr. President, according to HRR data in 2021, why is the 508-year health management department available at 146 universities not in its own title in the purchases made by the Ministry of Health? Will the health management department be provided with opportunities to purchase 40,000 health workers? Why is the name of the health management department, which clearly exists in the 657 State Officers' Law, and the 4597 quality code, not added to the KHK's Health Services and Helping Services Committee on General Staff and Usulum 190? Also, YURTKUR loans on students were announced yesterday. The students who apply at the beginning of the year will receive $650. Unfortunately, in the 90-day period between application and payment, the value of 650 TL went down to 300 TL. Will you update that number based on inflation? No dorms, no scholarships, no jobs. Credit...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0022par0134	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0025par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, people are hungry as a result of economic policies you haven't been able to achieve in 20 years. Will you at least make sure the minimum wage last year is $380? Will you also remove taxes and burdens on minimum wagers with nothing to lose but their wages? Do you plan to raise the minimum salary of pensioners who are underpaid?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0022par0137	Mr. Kemalbay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0026par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. On December 29th, the trial of our comrade Deniz Poyraz will begin. Where is the bag of the murderer who slaughtered Deniz Poyraz? Why isn't there a report on the briefcase and what's in it? What happened to the earthquake taxes that have been paid since 1999? Why aren't earthquake taxes being used and citizens being asked to help? Every person and institution who question the consequences of taxes is declared a terrorist. Did Minister Soylu pay his bill to the subsidiary company Willow Asş? If he did, where's the receipt? He used a plastic bill? Van Metropolitan Municipality under trustees still hasn't hired 303 workers, who have been justified by the court three times. The workers were asked, "Who is the baby's boyfriend?" Can we ask the same question to the noble? Treasure...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0027par0144	Yes, I believe the Minister will answer on behalf of the Commission. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0028par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I hope it's a good day and a good meeting. The tax burden on fixed fees on the blockages has been significantly lightened by applying minimum income reductions, and by reducing a person's income tax, depending on the civilized situation. With this application, the income tax burden of 2021 is married, the spouse is unemployed, and the minimum wage with 3 children is zero per cent monthly by the end of the year. In addition, the loss of minimum wage due to its access to the second portion of the tax rate in the last months of the year is paid through an additional minimum income reduction. When we look at all the minimum wagers, the average tax burden is 2.34 a month and 3.25 a year. At the same time, there will be a statement today regarding minimum wage. And as it has been until today, we will all see together a ratio that will never be crushed in the face of inflation, that will never be crushed. All payees, including those who live on minimum wage in Turkey, are taking advantage of their opportunities -- especially health care -- and any improvement from the past to this day has continued in a positive way, and are far above inflation; I have expressed in my budget speech, and there are multiples. In 2020, the Ministry of Health paid an important part of the hospital's savings. In 2021, we also earmarked additional funds and made payments. We've come up with a plan that's still going on, and we've also taken into account the budget opportunities for past debts. In this regard, additional funds have been transferred to the Ministry of Health to pay the debts, and debt payments are also paid. Regarding agricultural benefits, the Agricultural Law of 5488 is under the jurisdiction of Article 21 of the Law on Agriculture, that the funding of agricultural support programmes will not be less than 1 per cent of the non-employee. In 2022, the total amount of funds intended to be transferred to the agricultural sector was 57.6 billion euros, which included $25.8 billion for agricultural support programmes in the 2022 budget, 16.3 billion for agricultural sector investment funds, agricultural loan subsidies, investments, investments, and $15.5 billion for agricultural mass financing and exports.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0029par0152	What's 1 percent of the non-governing national estate, Mr. Secretary? You're contradicting yourself. You're telling stories!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0028par0153	According to the latest data released by TÜİK on 14/10/2021, our illegal national product was $4.98 trillion in 2020. In this scope, 57.6 billion dollars' worth of support corresponds to 1.16 percent of the non-national. Well, of course, there are all kinds of changes when you need them in other areas, because changes in the spirit of time, in the politics of the day change in the bureaucracy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0030par0155	Mr. Secretary, in the time of these calculations, in the medium-term program, the dollar was $9.27, now $15.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0028par0156	Thank you, and I hope we'll prepare for other questions and present them to those who ask them. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0031par0158	Mr. President, you have fifty-six seconds, may I ask you a question? Fifty-two seconds...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0032par0159	Sure, one second please...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0028par0160	I'm sorry, I thought it was over.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0033par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0032par0162	If you'll excuse me, fellas, I haven't voted yet.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0033par0163	Just because it's a vote after it's over...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0032par0164	But there's only one minute, and since the Minister didn't use that minute, I'm going to promise a friend of mine.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0034par0165	Please, I...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0032par0166	I'll promise the next fella. Yes, Mr. Gürer... I don't think so. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0035par0169	I'm withdrawing my say-so. Our group will request a roll call. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0032par0171	Yeah, time's up. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0036par0174	Mr. President, roll call...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit01spe0032par0175	There's a request for a roll call before I submit the 14th article to your votes, and I'll pay for it. Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Sümer, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Karabiyuk, Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Bee, Mr. Antmen, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Emecan, Mr. Yılım, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Köksal, Mr. Köçal, Mr. Tuncer, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Erbay. Yeah, roll call's in three minutes, and I'm starting roll call, guys. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] I'd like to ask my paralegal friends to stay in the hall. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0032par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Y O L A M A There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Article 14 of the 2022 Central Management Law. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Ladies and gentlemen of the compasses, please do not leave the General Assembly. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. We continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2022. The commission is in place. MADDE 15- (1) This Law is enforced on 1/1/2022. Anthalya MP Hasan Subaş has requested a statement on the 15th article on behalf of the PTA Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Subas. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] [[Whistling]] Congressmans, it's gonna be a long day. I've invited the speaker to the stand, and there's a serious hum in the hall; please, I'd like to ask you... Here you go, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0037par0027	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on Article 15 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. Last week, in the prime years of power, since 2002, I talked about the success story, and I compared it to the presidential government system for the last four years. The successes of that period, although the failures of this period were very clear and clear, were also amazed and exemplary by the friends who spoke in the budget process and almost blessed the period. There's been a lot of talk about interest, and there's been talk of interest, and since I didn't have time last week, I'd like to extend to you the interest issue that I didn't open. Look, since 2002, during your years of parliamentary systems up to 2018, interest changed between 45 billion and 55 billion in your primeval period, but in 2018, with your presidential system up to 73.9 billion in 2019, 99.9 billion in 2020, 134 billion in 2021, and 179.5 billion in 2021. So in the process, the interest was over 45 or 50 billion dollars, and then over 200 billion. So we don't want interest. No interest is allowed. The interest is illegal. There's Nas. When you say Turkey, unfortunately, you've sunk it into interest. Oh, yeah, that's right, that's right. It's immoral to tie to the exchange; you said that, and we understand that. Well, what should people with savings, a few hundred thousand liras, do? We're asking you. What can they do? When he deposits his money in the bank, let him keep his interest. Should they call it "immorality" or should they put it on the beating you call it? I guess it's just people who have money, people who have dollars, they live very comfortably, but you don't have an opinion or an opinion that you can give to those people. The investor ministers, who have been offering their budgets for days, praised the investments made by investors in the future of the BCI contractors as the biggest, tallest, longest bridge, tunnel, aircraft. Cars and space projects, even artificial intelligence, have been talked about for a long time. Despite the fact that they had the most forgotten, the biggest prisons, the most human rights and legal reform, our Minister of Justice, I believe, has never mentioned it, perhaps out of courtesy, perhaps out of embarrassment. Vice President Mr. Oktay also said that the budget for 2021 would be a budget for huge artifacts, just like the previous years. In parallel with the ministers' words, the ministers presented it as a budget for huge artifacts, but in this budget, man was forgotten. What does the government do, what does it do? Look, I remind the Constitution that you have little to do with the law and the Constitution, but most of the time you ignore it -- the duty of the state is to ensure the welfare, peace and happiness of society. It says to prepare the conditions for the development of man's material and spiritual existence. The government's primary duty is to human well-being. When we look at what is prosperity, according to the Turkish Language Foundation, living without difficulty means abundance and abundance. When I carefully look at the government's presentation to its people to see if it had forgotten its duty to provide prosperity first, the 48th page states: "The goal is that in a conjoncture where balances are reshaped due to the global pandemic, the economy of Turkey will continue to rise strongly and increase the prosperity of our people. Yes, I found this word -- about the reform -- but in the paragraph right behind it, I came across this statement: the 2022 budget will be a budget for huge artifacts, sustainable contributions, as it was in the previous years. And as it turns out, whatever was left out of interest in the budget was earmarked for BCI contractors, foreign exchanges, guaranteed payments. The president seems to have forgotten all about his well - being, reminding him of the Bacara surah, and being patient with your absence. He gives advice. Again, according to Law 1567, it is the duty to protect the President's Turkish money. Today, the mission has been completely forgotten; instead of protecting Turkish money, efforts are being made to reduce its value. He remembers travel events. As an example of how the dollar rose from 1.80 to 2 on the basis of demonstrations and actions, you called out: "In Turkey, which has been subjected to many domestic and external attacks throughout history, only cost hundreds of billion dollars. The financial markets, which have been corrupted by the investor's perception, have been severely damaged. He interpreted it as a low attack targeting the president, the state and the nation. The activists, who caused the value of Turkish money to drop, are said to be given all kinds of punishments, as well as subpoenas and instructions to the courts. Who, then, is responsible for the loss of the record value of $ 100 per cent of the dollar a year? (Applause from the Party and CHP) The new Finance Minister has said that there is no outside interference with the increase of the vote. He is the one who has unconsciously dismissed the President's claim against foreign intervention. That was a good thing, and for the time being, the adventurer has postponed another step to call it the Salvation War, which is crawling on the ground because of empty and unsustainable rhetoric. Dear lawmakers, the whole world has been affected by the pandemic, but we've both hit the bottom of both law and economics. Out of stubbornness, out of ignorance, out of ignorance, out of common sense, we have lost our money, poored the people, starved our people, even in the land of plenty, our rich and fertile land and our devoted farmers. Finally, even our farmers left their land, their village, looking for jobs in the cities. The esteemed MPs, Edirne, the Bulgarians, Vana Iranians, Artvin and Tripolia Georgians, the Azerbaijans, are coming to shop, filling their vehicles with their goods and returning homes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0038par0034	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0037par0035	Qatar and BAE capital are coming to take on public assets at the price of bargains because every country's money has become very valuable against our money. Our own citizen can't fill his net, he's waiting in line for bread. There are not many of our citizens who collect and bring home goods from the same markets. The state also has a variety of tasks to protect agriculture and production, but at this rate, we will not only resent the farmer, but we will witness the abandonment of the land in the coming years, and the loss of crops in the crops, in the land of agriculture and plenty, the absence of our crops, meat and milk. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm afraid I don't have the time, so I'm tying it up. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0039par0040	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Saffet Sandzakli, MP. Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0040par0043	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation watching us on television, I salute you all. Yes, budget talks are naturally tense, they're running late; we're a little tired. I'd like to get out of politics and talk to you a little bit about youth and a little bit about sports. The current young population in Turkey is the youngest and most dynamic population in Europe, not only by word, but also by numbers. We have 18 million elementary school students, 25 million under 20 kids, and under 35 years of age, a total of 45 million people -- Turkey -- has the youngest and most dynamic population in Europe. So let's ask ourselves, " Can we use this young population properly, can we do what is necessary, can we activate it? So, here -- of course we may lack -- I'd like to talk a little bit about this because Turkish youth is not an area that can be left unattended, and there are a lot of groups who, unfortunately, abuse it, especially terrorist organizations. Of course, the will to establish the republic was said about a hundred years ago with close colleagues, particularly Gazi Mustafa Ataturk, to say what kind of Turkish youth they wanted. Ataturk says in the 15 July 1921 Maarif Congress: "I want young people to be raised as idealists and sacrificing generations who love their homeland and their nation, who will protect the unity and independence of the country. Again, regardless of the degree of education they will experience in the same Congress, I want them to be given knowledge and consciousness that will protect Turkey, above all else, their national self." It is necessary to teach Turkey's sovereignty and national unity to fight enemy elements; it has no right to life and sovereignty to a society of individuals who do not know it. I'm reading this again: "There is no right to life and sovereignty to a society of individuals who don't know this," said Ataturk. Of course, Ataturk (Ataturk) now has a saying about youth that everyone knows and says: "O generation of rising generations, the future is yours! We built the Republic, you will keep it alive and you will sustain it. Ataturk made it clear a hundred years ago how much he wanted Turkish youth and how much he trusted Turkish youth. Of course, when the Great Leader Ataturk spoke about Turkish youth, saying what Turkish youth he wanted, he combined it with sports and how can I meet Turkish youth with the sport in a sound mind and sound body? Of course, in 1938 he established the General Director of Body Discipline and approved it at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. At that time, Ataturk -- of course, there is no Ministry of Youth and Sports, there is a Department General of Physical Discipline -- which has donated as much land as the hundred measurements of the current Dutch Level of Education to the General Directorate of Physical Education and started a sport project for young people, including teachers from elementary schools -- including national education. At that time, when he wrote the Law on Physical Discipline, he introduced four hours a week of physical education and sports to women between 12 and 35 years of age, men between 12 and 45 years of age. So Ataturk dreamed of building the future of this country by combining youth and sports. As a matter of fact, our current ministry is called the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Of course, what more did Ataturk say about sports, about the importance of sports: ▪ Turkish children need to teach them the technique of sports today, and some of them need to be presented as decorations at certain ceremonies and holidays. Ataturk emphasises that international recognition of Turkish sports and athletes is important: Turkish athleticism will export its position on the stage. Then Turkish athleticism will be as civilized as it is in the country and in the nation's life, and perhaps a more civilized civilization than I thought it would be. Ataturk aims to deliver it to the nation's dynamics by creating group dynamics in Turkey, with physical education and sports practices carried out in physical education and sports. All of these applications were able to form through Ataturk's superior vision, during his time. Since physical education and sports make up a healthy brain and body, more powerful societies are created with healthy brains and bodies, sports policies must be the first task to address and operate as a national policy reflected in all areas of the state. So as a country, we should put sports ahead of us as the first task in all majors, in all areas as sports policy, says the Great Leader. Physical education and sports should be made a way of life, a way of life, above all, for society. Societys of healthy thinking, healthy bodies can grow and evolve in the field of culture and civilization. Such societies are effective in creating a universal dynamic and sustaining this dynamic by establishing healthy and compatible relations with the world's nations. The state of the Republic of Turkey has to be seen as important for the health, happiness, and dignity of the Turkish nation to conduct a physical education and sports policy that contributes to this world dynamic. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says. I mean, last week, with that project that I've been talking about in the Sports Department's budget, we can create a healthy new society by imbuing the great Turkish nation with sports culture and increasing their education courses starting from elementary schools, by making sports and art. A hundred years ago, Ataturk told us about this vision. While I may have been digging through these Capitol records, wondering what's going on here, perhaps I've told you guys something like this. That's where the vision of Ataturk came from. Now, I'll go back to being young, and I'll come back to today. Is it true that we categorize our youth by dividing X, Y, Z into other groups? I don't think we're doing it right, guys. I disagree. There is one youth in Turkey and its name is the youth of the Republic of Turkey. [[A round of applause from the MHP and the Good Party rankings]] And then we separate this youth, and then we say something at the same time -- I think it's unfair to youth -- that the next election -- in the first vote -- will vote as many as a million young people. Friends, let's keep these young people away from this policy, keep them out of politics, not make them political material, let's not think of them as ballot stores. How are 18-year-olds going to vote somewhere... and the children we call the 18-year-old are no longer children? My late uncle got a call, and I was 8 or 9 years old, and he made me dial that phone, and I was the coolest kid in the family, and I dialed that phone, and they had beige phones, and they had tulbents on them. Now, when the newborn is only 1 years old, he goes online and he sees the world, and he's very easy to communicate with. So let's not treat these kids like children. They're going to vote for the first time, let's just say, well... no need, they already see everything and do what they have to do. I'm against the use of these young people as political material, and I'm against dissolution. Of course there's a generational conflict between us and our children. I was a child, and they said, "What about these young people? What about these young people?" Now we're getting old, and we're still asking a question, "What about these young people?" This is generational awareness, folks. We try to get our kids to study better than we do, we provide better opportunities, we put everything in front of them in this IT age, and then we say, "You're going to do everything we say. They're not going to do everything we say. Of course they're not going to do everything we say. For him, we have to sit down and convince the young because of this generation's awareness, to listen to them well, because this Turkish youth is a very smart, very intelligent youth. The youth that Ataturk said a hundred years ago, and the youth that he wanted, does exist today, so don't worry. Of course, what should we do about young people? We need to direct our young people to sports, art, science, technology; we need to convince the stronger Turkey of the future that they will build it. Turkish youth is an honorable, characterized, highly qualified, patriotic youth. So at this point, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we need to work here to figure out how to do more projects about our young people, how to open them up, we need to do some projects here, and we need to open them up, we need to create more possibilities.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0041par0055	Let me finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0040par0056	I'm ending it, Mr. President. When Turkish youth was enabled, we saw what it could do in various fields, but the last time we saw it was in TEKNOFEST, where thousands of bright young people had achieved great success in the field of scientific work and creative technology and turned the world's attention to Turkey. Likewise, in the techno parks of our universities, our young people have done excellent work in computing, software, engineering. I mean, I want to say, my friends, that Turkish youth is talented, Turkish youth is smart, Turkish youth is patriotic. We need to convince them that they're going to build Turkey in the future by doing more projects on our 600 parliamentary youth here. We rely on Turkish youth and love them. And thank you for listening to me, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0042par0060	İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu has requested a statement on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0043par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Regents, I would like to share with you some of my thoughts on the overall budget. I think we need to underline this once, in a bad conjunctural, this budget has been prepared, you know, starting with pandemics, or even more from behind, when the impact of the 2008 crisis did not completely eliminate pandemics, the world conjuncture really doesn't point to an appropriate period of implementation of the budget. On top of that, dear friends, it is important to point out that the impact of the 2008 crisis has been greatly weakened by the co-existence of G20, and the partnership of economic policies, and the world has been able to overcome the 2008 crisis, at least to some extent. They proposed an economic policy in the form of increasing demand with broader monetary policies because the G20s in a sense synchronized behavior, and we actually did that at the time, and so were the world economies, and Turkey, as a result of the increase in liquidity. Only in this crisis are we alone, dear friends. Because when countries were coming out of the 2008 crisis, they didn't make a similar deal. Everyone tried to get out of it their way, or remember, maybe there were courtship wars on their way out for a while. To tell you the truth, at that time, Turkey lost its reference point, in a way, and returned to itself. I don't know if you remember, but as of 2011, Mr. President prefers a more centralized administration of some of the free market economies that exist in the economy, by linking independent institutions to the ministries. So from what I understand, it was a huge process that led us to the crisis, one step forward, two steps back, before the pandemic crisis that we had already encountered in 2019. Dear friends, now, about the pandemic... when this crisis began, of course, the pandemic had a big, negative effect, and Turkey didn't know much about how to deal with this crisis. So if you remember, there were things that no government, such as the IBAN number and so on, had ever done in any government, but in the end, the government, I think, said, "The economy was in crisis, and the pandemic made it even worse. What did he do when he decided that the problem was largely about supply? He also preferred loan expansion and financial enlargement, but, dear friends, the current banking system... which is usually what the ruling MPs and ministers say when they interpret Turkey, especially as if there are no contradictions between the private sector and the state, but in reality, that's not how it works, my friends. In fact, when we looked at what the government had increased the liquidity, especially through banks at the time, I'll tell you: banks made 20 percent real profit that year, the stock market paid about 29 percent real return. So the government's liquidity expansion would turn into a loan, and the banks would do it -- the banks didn't do it, and so there was financialisation. At the end of that year, the government created a punishment mechanism called Engagement Rasyosu, and I supplied you with liquidity to the banks, turned it into a loan, turned it into production, and if you don't do that, I'll fine you. He said, "I'll fine you, and so he tried to prevent the banking sector's conduct in a way that was inadmissible to its own policy." Dear friends, time is running out. In the second phase of our economic crisis, along with this pandemic, there has been an increase in demand all over the world. Dear friends, the demand increase, the government didn't think of this detail, for some reason I don't know, but the government's economists... did the minister leave? I think he's gone, anyway. Dear friends, especially in intensive sectors, the demand increase is a price increase, while capital in intensive sectors goes with the increase in demand production. Now, with this pandemic in the world, the demand for vaccines has increased, and inflation has increased in the domestic market. Because the building and, as I said, in the food industry, especially as intensive sectors, this demand growth emerged as a price increase and produced inflation. On the other hand, the same demand growth has contributed positively to the capital intensive sectors, and there has been a growth in production, which is also the 10% growth you've been expecting this year. Now, dear friends, by the way, when inflation came out, the currencies became valuable, and the government was essentially unable to implement the classic methods of dealing with it because one of the jobs to do when currency prices went up is to exchange the market, but the Central Bank was out of currency, dear friends. They've spent 128 billion dollars in the past, so they don't have enough reserves, so what's going to happen? Let him go. They came up with a new theory that might mean something. The new theory was essentially a theory in the context of import substitution policies, so it suggested that imports would become expensive; okay, but when imports became expensive, we would support those who would replace imports with all the resources we had, and thus our dependence on imports would be lifted, we would move on to an export growth path. Dear friends, I am a man of left politics. This idea, which may be considered an importation, is a matter for us to support, of course, when we talked to Mr. Secretary yesterday -- but, dear friends, between 1960 and 80, the policy of importation has been implemented, and I'll tell you what it turns out to be: one -- an extreme monopoly has emerged, the families have had great economic power; coaches, I'll tell my master here, the plowmen have come out. Second, a budget, or a state, that needed 70 cents - as said by Rahmedi Demirel. Now, a similar incident is happening here, and I'm going to say two things, the weak side of this program has two issues, and one of them is that the tax on imports is dwindling, dear friends. Taxes from imports are an important income marker for the budget. Therefore, the budget deficit will grow more and more. Growth of the budget deficit means increase, friends, and re-inflation. Secondly, we have short-term foreign debts, loans from foreign money. We have 125 billion dollars to pay next year, as far as I can see. And when we calculate with these currencies, the internal load is going to be huge -- in terms of Turkish dollars, I mean -- I think it's going to come back to us as a raise. Well, what do you suggest? You might say, "Well, that would make sense. " We're offering two things: one, we need to apply the following taxes, so we need to get more tax than a lot of winners, less than a lot of winners, and two, we need to raise wages, dear friends, we need to raise minimum wage. Why do we have to do this? It's a beautiful thing the Minister said... or rather, it's a saying that many politicians share, in fact, we're in the same boat. Yeah, we're in the same boat, that's true, but, dear friends, some of us are on deck, some of us are in the engine room.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0044par0076	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0043par0077	Thank you. So if the ship's going down, there's a chance the deck might survive, but there's no one down there. Therefore, we need to make a political choice. Are we on the side of those down there, or are we on the side of those up there? We say we should be on the side of those below, because they don't do anything unless they're forced to, dear friends. Between 1960 and 1980, the industry that we protected with high customs walls has led to a major monopoly in Turkey, and there's been an inflationist environment with monopoly, two digits, three digital inflations. So, dear friends, increase the prices so that those above are forced to invest in new technologies, otherwise they won't invest in new technologies, they won't produce imports. I'm out of time. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0045par0082	Asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party group, Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0046par0085	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Justice and Development Party's budgets have two different features over the past 20 years: first, budgets during the parliamentary system; second, budgets under the Presidential government system. They were brought to Parliament with a very different understanding. In the first amendments, the Parliament and the Plan Budget Commission would have budgetary budgets with highly qualified debates, evaluations. It's not like that now, now the budgets come in packages from the palace, the plan goes through the budget and there's no significant changes here. Well, change it if it's tight. Why? Because the palace has a bat, you can never change it. This budget's preparation technique has become very different. Look, valued lawmakers, in 1215 the Magna Carta Convention in England has made many qualified arrangements. One of the most important things was that the tax collection and budgeting were removed from the palace and from the king, and that the court and the king's tyranny were terminated. Nine hundred years later, you left the budget to the mercy and court of one man. (CHEERING) So, what happened? Here's what's going on. The appointed ministers walked away from accounting to the people and the representatives of the people, and in the end, they were left in the hands of ministers who said, "Can I say it without your permission? That's why the Minister, who didn't answer to the public and the representatives of the people, was able to come in here and take on the people's deputy, tried to bully him under this roof, but he took off. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear Regents, there's some serious activity in the exchange now. Everyone's looking at the dollar, looking at the euro, looking at the pound. Yeah, well, don't look at them; Turkish lira lost value to the Yemeni race, which is on the brink of war and absence, Ghana, Haiti, Central African Republic, Mozambique's money, and there's no currency in which Turkish lira doesn't lose value. That's why you should take whatever money you can find, despite the Numan Survivor, which defines citizens as immoral. The one who tried to teach the citizen a moral lesson, while the honor, honor, morality, and high virtue of our fellow citizens, is at a higher and higher height, in which he will teach moral lessons to those who call him immoral. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, because the European gates are closed, they turn around and try to raise money from other countries, from Qatar, from the United Arab Emirates. Whose turn is it now, Arabia, Israel, or Egypt? No, no, Syria, Syria, Syria. Soon they will have to go to Assad. This government is also doing something else that is going door to door to door to collect money: They are supposed to be fighting against the so - called hand-to-hand baby baby, and they are fighting ISIS. Despite the investigations of the MIT, the Police, and the General Staff, only one person can sign a Turkish citizenship. Whose signature is that? The President's. More than 100 Turkish citizens have been granted Turkish citizenship, why? So, $250,000 comes in, they buy real estate, money goes into the vault. Then they realized they were ISIS militants who quickly seized their property and took it out of citizenship. I'll give you a concrete example: now, there's an Iraqi citizen, Marwan Salih Salih. This citizen is being granted Turkish citizenship, he starts trading in Istanbul, but in 2019 he is leading America's list of supporters of terrorism, where we give him citizenship and give him an ID number and pave the way for him to trade. And then what happens? Upon realizing that on November 5th, the tax number was given again under the name Polat, and he, Polat Dervisoglu, today at the same address in Istanbul, trades with a different title, pouring money into ISIS. Here's the fight against ISID, here's the fight with you. Come and see what kind of compromises are made for this money. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, now, there's another reality, which is, what's so interesting about the economy is that there are very famous theorists in the world who are guiding ideas, theories, world economics, economists. So, I looked at the economics theories of these economists, these economists, and these economists, from Keynes to Adam Smith, Karl Marx to Fisher. None of them fit Turkey. XErdoğan says once in a while that I am an economist, I write the book of the economy. I looked, I couldn't find a book like that; I said, maybe I couldn't find his articles, and I realized later that this is not a Turkish-type economic model like Turkish-type presidential system, but Erdogan-type economic model. (HPP) Well, do you know what this economic model looks like? I'll give you an example of the doctor's eye, it's like cutting off the arm of a headache, cutting off the leg of a female ache. It's an economic model that's far from science, mind, respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, with such an economic model, Turkey is going upside down, it's impossible to see the citizens in front of it. Citizens ask: "What are we going to do?" I humbly say: "Friend, do not listen to the president or the AKP people, especially not to any of these appointed ministers. Create your own economy, your own budget with your own mind, your own truth, because all the minds these AKP people will give you will lead you astray. This understanding, which has made Turkey vomit blood for 20 years, has, unfortunately, brought my beautiful and lonely country to the brink of bankruptcy. Now, there's something else: citizens on the stand, friends with parties, some of the lawmakers say: "Good luck and good luck." Either, friend, this budget will not do any good to my citizen, to my poor man, to my poor man, to my poor man. It's a poor budget for them, and it's a poor budget for them. (CHP clapping in rows) But it brings good to someone. Who? They're good for the mob, the gangs, the allies, but they're no good for the country. (CHP clapping in rows) There's no point in that to him at all. There's no chance of a rotten, shredded power solving Turkey's problems at this time, but there is one thing: economic war has been declared. The economic war, this people will never be part of your war. We're calling it a campaign. It won't contribute a bit to your economy, which you call a war. These people will do something else -- they will start a war with you, they will fight with you, but they will give you democratic methods, they will ask you that account in the chest, and the day will come when we will see that account with our citizens, we will raise Turkey, and we will say, "Good for the people's power."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0047par0101	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0046par0102	If we say good for your poor budget, we will wrong this citizen, and we will wrong the citizens who stand in line for miles. Dear MPs, they're coming to you; the job seekers are coming to us... now they're coming to us for something else, and they're saying: "You've taken large metropolitan municipalities as lions with the support of the people, you're doing social municipal work, or, please call the municipalities, and they'll build a bread buffet in our neighborhoods, a bread buffet. I asked a friend of mine in Istanbul, and I said: "Ya, take a look at this tail, take a look at this line, take a look at it. For my sake, you've gone to five places, and you've looked at it, and you've got a tail on every bread line, 30 meters or 40 meters in each row. That's what you've done with the citizen. Now you're back... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0048par0106	Bow, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0046par0107	Thank you. You're back, mocking the citizens who line up. You know what they say? A AKP MP at İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality: "Ya, don't look at those queues, those in line are lining up to take pictures." Don't worry, we're taking photos of you and your criminal party with these people, and we're going to hit you in the face when the day comes. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0049par0111	The 15th article has been met with the request for a statement on behalf of the groups. Now, on behalf of the individuals, we're going to move on to voicing demands. The first statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Baki Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0050par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 15th Article of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law, which we are discussing. I hereby salute your grand delegation and all members of the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. The budget of 2022, which is the fourth budget of the presidential government system, is the budget of the world-dominated Covid-19 epidemic in healthcare systems, social life, economic balances, a series of natural disasters in our paradise country, and a period of treacherous terrorist attacks, and a budget of unusual but extraordinary situations. Global and regional developments in the face of all these negativitys have made it necessary for Turkey to be present on many fronts. Therefore, this year's budget has been prepared and prepared for this opportunity to pay tribute to our Veteran Parliament. Dear MPs, five years ago, on December 17, 2016, the blood-soaked terrorist organization, the baby-killer PKK, pulled the pin of their conscience once again in Kayseri, our city, known for its peace and quiet, in the middle of Turkey, and away from their mother, father, side, son, Kayseri 1. He has martyred 15 of our Mehmets who took a leave of absence while serving as a patriot in the Command of the Command of the Commando Brigade. Once again, I wish God's mercy on our fallen brothers and our veterans a healing, and my condolences on the great Turkish nation. Our pain and our hatred are as alive as the first day. We support all investments in the defense industry to keep our borders and heart geography safe so that we can get more revenge than those who have brought us into this life, to wipe out traitors from our heavenly homeland, from our northern border, to our southern border, from Edirne to Kars, to restore peace and quiet in every square inch of our land. Instead of being a disintegrating society, there should be a society that produces it, so we should promote agriculture, industry, incentives and decreases in input costs to make our farmer, our industrialist smile. Mr. President, to hear from the world objectively, correctly and objectively, we also need to make the faces of our fellow workers and employers, working with a sense of publishing responsible for the interests of our country, public order, social dynamics and professional morality. As you know, RTÜK demands a license fee every ten years from satellite and media service providers broadcasting online and cable broadcasts. Our media contractors, who already have high input costs and are paying the frequency rent price to TÜRKSAT (TÜRKSAT), are facing a very difficult math. Therefore, the RTÜK must reduce the rate of collateral letters on license fees. TÜRKSAT frequency collection costs should be indexed to Turkish lira and updated each year through TEFE, TÜFE. With these feelings and thoughts, the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 says that we have a positive assessment of the proposal, and I wish the Lord God that our budget be blessed and blessed. I also want to thank all of our county and county agencies, our mayors, our municipalities, our NGOs, our civil society organizations, who have contributed to our efforts during the budget talks, with their findings at the point of our city's shortcomings. I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0051par0125	On behalf of the individuals, the last speaker is Mr. Huseyin Orris, Congressman of Tripoli. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0052par0128	Mr. President, I've been promised to speak against the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal of Article 15 of the Year. With all due respect to the General Assembly and our beloved nation watching us at the beginning of their screens. Dear lawmakers, we are close to the end of budget negotiations. We'll complete these negotiations with tomorrow's session. We talked a lot here, said the budget was short. Especially after the increase in dollars, after the increase in currency, we defined this budget as a budget of absence, and we said that one-third of it went away, but one of the best recipes that fits is a budget that I think looks like a bird. With this budget, we've said that people's problems can't be cured, that they can't be cured. I'm going to look at what my constituency is getting, what they're giving, what I'm going to share with you a little bit about this budget talk. Now, when we look at Tripoli, there are many, many promises that the EC PARTY has made since 2002, when they came to power. Sometimes when the AK PARTI presents their commitments to Tripoli, it says, for example, the project. It says, "We love 61 minutes, we love 61," it says, "The project 61." He's running with this project, but after the election, years later, we're just looking at the name of the project, no actions, no promises. For example, I remember in the 2009 election, there was a cartoon in the 61 project of the AK PARTY, which was a really good cartoon. The rail system was so beautifully flowing that those who knew Tripoli on the streets of Tripoli knew of our Long Street, of our Maras Street, of our own kind, that today we have abandoned the rail system in Tripoli, the stops of the fillings were troubled, and the pedestrian sidewalks of the people were troubled. There was a cable car, and it was beautiful. For those of you who know Tripoli, this is how the cable car floats down from Boztepe, like this, down to the port. Well, we don't have one today. They said a Pottery transforming project; it's been twelve, thirteen years since 2009; it's been more than a year, and it's still not over, and it's getting smaller and smaller. Now, I have the actual mega-promises to Tripoli, some of which are called "mega promises." Promises, promises, mega-promises, super-promises; they have such promises. For example, one of them is the South Environment Road Project. Every election season, they cook and cook like this and bring it to us. The South Environment Road is really an essential project for Tripoli, not just a transportation project, but a urbanization project, a very accurate project, but it's been discussed in Tripoli for many years about the South Environment Path Project. The EC PARTY has promised every election period since 2002, but the last thing that was done was that during the 57th government, Minister of Time, Mr. Koray Aydın had done his project and put a representative grant in the budget. After that, the budgets we've come to so far have no Southern Environment Road, our South Environment Road is on dusty shelves. I looked at this budget, and I said, "Is there anything on our South Environment Road Project?" And then again, it was forgotten. Again, I looked at this budget, and I saw that we again have the inevitable of Tripoli -- actually not only for Tripoli, but also for Turkey -- the Trabzon-Erzincan Railway, the project that will connect the port of Tripoli to the world, to Central Asia, but there is nothing to do with this project. I'll tell you one last thing, one of the mega investments of the AK PARTY. In the Plan Budget, I also told our Minister, Mr. Varank, that you have a promise of an island for Tripoli, that you've said a lot in Tripoli, and I really want you to keep this investment island promise because it's an employment project. There's a lot of unemployment in Tripoli, and maybe if that project happens, our unemployed young people there will be able to get jobs, but I'm looking at the 2022 budget, and I see you're not keeping that investment island promise.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0053par0135	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0052par0136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, they say in Tripoli, friends: "When will this investment island not be built now?" They say in Tripoli: "When will there be four ministers of this organization, when will there be no Southern roads?" (ICE Party and CHP rows) * "When will there be four ministers of Tripoli be held?" (ICE Party and CHP rows) * "When will we not be able to make this investment," they say: "We are going to do it now," we are going to do it in the south," we are going to do it in the south, we are going to do it, we are going to do it in the south, we are going to do it, we are going to do it in the south." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0054par0140	The request for a statement has been met on behalf of the individuals.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0055par0141	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0054par0142	Well, according to 60, I promise you just for a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0055par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Our 25th, 26th Term MP Behcet Yıldırım was taken into custody on November 3rd and arrested after eight days of detention. Now, Urbana is being held in prison. There was a new development this morning, and we found out that his wife, a Turkish teacher, was suspended. Motive? Reason: social media sharing in 2015. In social media sharing, so tragicomics is really in a cartoon, tell me mirror to mirror. You, who's the prettiest? The mirror that says, "Who's the prettiest?" When you say "You," make the mirror my advisor. The sharing was considered an insult to the President, and this morning when you went to school this morning -- two days ago -- an investigation had already been launched -- you were exposed, and you could go home. In fact, what I've always said in front of this...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0054par0146	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0055par0147	I'll finish it. I mean, this power knows no bounds to evil. He's suspending a social media division in 2015... and a former MP's wife for one reason only. When he was taken into custody, he sought law enforcement by holding a gun to the head of the elementary school boy. Their anger toward individuals and politics turned to families, almost to tribes. Not even in tribal states. I'm telling you to stop this injustice, this injustice, this cruelty. I want to say that this evil of yours has ended you, that you have not woken up yet, and that of course, restore Mukadder Yıldırım, and release Behcet Yıldırım. Thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0056par0155	Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for ten minutes. Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0057par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. The most remarkable decision of 128 recommendations by the 20th National Education Service was to advise the main class of religion. It's actually a violation of rights and a crime against children. At this rate, the child who is in arson in the 21st Shura, and the fetus in the mother's womb in the 22nd Shura. Why is the railway service not brought to Antalya? 500km from Gazipaşa to Kash. In fact, the railway is less efficient and faster to transport, but the railway service is almost zero in Antalya. Why isn't there a railroad service with a tourist zone that attracts the world's attention? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0058par0161	Mr. Durmusoglu... no. Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0059par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. The basement, Milas, Yateen, Mentesh, Ula, and Ködıriz were planned to plant wind bleachers on the land of the citizens. Have the opinions of the institutions and organizations been removed as energy sources were identified? How much of the energy source areas remain in the forest area because of the 68% of the muğla forest area? Have the provisions of Law 3573 been evaluated for remaining olive fields in source areas? Are there natural sites and archaeological sites? How many hectares are covered? Have the surrounding dwellings, agriculture, tourism, protected areas, coast and so forth been analysed in areas of YEKA and the surrounding areas of the bleachers set up in these areas? Is there a report of these analyses? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0060par0166	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0061par0167	Mr. President, our mosques and Koran courses must not be left empty. The application of proxy imamism and honorary teaching should not also be tried to fill the gap. Those who work as substitute imams and honoraries are victims of wages and rights. Therefore, the empty mosques and Koran courses should be appointed staffed, and the differences between those working for the Ministry of Religious Affairs must be resolved. It should be appointed as teachers as much as the staff we lack in our schools. Applyings such as acting teaching, teaching for additional tuition must be terminated. The contractual, staffed teacher distinction between teachers must also be terminated. A staffed teacher must be appointed by opening staff up to the teacher's deficit. For the reputation and future of the teaching profession, teaching must be made a career, and legal arrangements must be made. Teachers need to be improved in their rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0062par0170	Your Highness...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0063par0171	Thank you, Mayor. My question to the Finance Minister was that you weren't the minister when the budget was being prepared; I hope you can apply that budget as well. As the budget was being drawn up, the dollar was 9.27, and now it's over 15 TL. So your budget's been cut in half. How are you going to give our people, agriculture, workers and civil servants your support, wages? Either you're not going to raise wages for your bonds because there's no money. Are you going to make a new budget? If you're not going to do it, how do you defend the budget, can you claim it, do you have a magic formula? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0064par0174	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0065par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. In our country that has to live in an earthquake, construction chief is the key to our safety. There's no way an engineer could be head of construction for five different jobs up to 30,000 square feet, as permitted by legislation. In our country, many projects apply construction chiefs on paper. Let's end this shameful situation as a country of earthquakes. I'm calling for a supervisor to run every site. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0066par0178	Mr. Kemalbay... no. Mr. Nice... Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0067par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the distribution of SMEs in Turkey, development and conservation of different regions were ignored, causing internal migration. Is there a precaution you're taking on this? How many COBIs have been closed in the last two years, what are the reasons for closing? WHAT are the distribution criteria for TUBITAK funds? How much money did the government pour into THY? How many financial loans did he receive from 2022, from foreign countries, from European funds today, and from what projects did he receive them? How much guarantees have been paid in the last two years? How much money has been collected in the Universal Service Fund over the past two years, and where has this money been spent, and what is the detailed usage table?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0068par0187	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0069par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Turkish lira is not only worth dollars and euros. In 2006, Georgia, our Northeast neighbor, paid $100 to buy the 140s, while I just spoke to Artvin on the phone -- they were paid 100 liras and 18s as of yesterday, and I just learned that 15 of them were taken. What do you think of that, Mr. Secretary? So that's where Georgia was going to gain value over Turkish lira, and that's when Turkish citizens -- turning around -- were going to buy gas earlier, and now Georgia's citizens are coming this way. Doesn't the loss of Turkish lira in such a way upset you in the face of the Georgian family? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0070par0191	Yes, the Commission... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0071par0193	Thank you. The focus of this budget is the construction of modern Turkey, developed by our people's well-being and strong economy. Our main priority in the budget is the use of revenues collected with an understanding based on the service to our citizens. As a matter of fact, fighting poverty and the inequality of income has always been one of our main priorities, and the result of economic growth, broad infrastructure investments and covering policies have been significant improvements in our country in terms of poverty, social prosperity, income distribution and human development.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0072par0195	How the hell did that happen?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0071par0196	In 2022, with an increase of 29.4, we raised our education budget to $273.5 billion, health ministry and higher education institutions return capitals, and health care costs from the Social Security Institution, with an increase of 27.8 per cent to 304.6 billion euros, with an increase of 28.3 per cent to social aid spending. In addition, the resource assigned to the youth programme was increased to $876.2 million, at $943m, the source assigned to the women's strengthening programme, to 5.3 billion in the programme for the protection and development of children. Our budget is a human-focused budget for the welfare of all our citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0072par0197	The economy doesn't improve because that's how you understand it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0071par0198	Gene, we'll continue with real sector supports in 2022, and we'll continue our growth strategy with the private sector. In this case, we're allocated 68.9 billion dollars from our budget for real-estate support. We're saving $44.6 billion directly from the budget to the Employment Programme. In this scope, we're paying an employer's bonus of $35.2 billion that should be paid to the Social Security Agency in order to support production and employment. On the other hand, 1.8 billion dollars have been earmarked from the budget to support our COSGEB. We encourage $2.9 billion in investment and employment by the Ministry of Industry and Technology. We continue to support investors through the Credit Guarantee Fund. We're saving $6.2 billion in the budget for this support in 2022. We have significantly increased our resources for investments in the Central Management Law Proposal of 2022. In 2021, investment funds amounted to $147.6 billion in 2022, which amounted to $113.3 billion. In this scope, we will continue to implement public investments that raise the productive capacity of private sector investments, which create high-velocity value, contribute to boosting employment and reducing current deficits. And let me give you some information about immigration statistics and life tables. Death data is used while calculating life tables and migratory statistics. The death and death statistics 2020 News bulletin has not been published, due to the fact that the work of the death statistics in the administrative records of the institutions that have been obtained has not yet been completed. Life tables and migratory statistics will also be shared with the public after the release of the 2020 News Journal of Death and Death Statistics. I'm supplying.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0073par0203	The 15th article... Y O L A M A
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0074par0206	We have a request for a roll call before the 15th Amendment vote.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit02spe0073par0207	Okay. Before I submit the 15th article to your votes, there is a request for a roll call, and I will meet the call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Green, Mr. Karabiyik, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Şeleş, Mr. Gökçel, Mr. Kılanç, Mr. Kayşoğlu, Mr. Emecan, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Şevkin, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Girgin, Mr. Erbay. I'll give you three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0073par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly. Y O L A M A There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the 15th draft of the 2022-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. The MPs who gave the compass are requested not to leave the courtroom. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 15th article is accepted. We continue our 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. The commission is in place. MADDE 16- (1) The President governs these laws. (2) The Supreme Assembly of Turkey shall carry out its provisions concerning the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, its provisions concerning the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, the Court's President, the regulatory and regulatory institutions, and/or its heads of institutions. Eskişehir MP Arslan Kabukcuoğlu has requested a statement on behalf of the PTA Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0075par0025	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the valued Turkish nation, watching us at the head of their television, has made a commitment on the 16th article of the Central Management Budget Law of 2022, the budget of poverty and corruption. I salute you all. Education is essential for limited countries with natural resources. A good education is a human right. Mr. Coral Akşener, our chairman, says education is an opportunity to take the place of a man's birth away from his destiny and have a say in his own life. Every citizen must be equal in reaching education. The only account of 19 years of EC PARTY was in the manner of what must be done in order to get the next election. Every three years, the minister of education changed his education program every year and a half. Teachers are the backbone of education. A teacher who has trained himself well is more than just a teacher. The government must also treat a teacher who opposes the current ideology fairly, and after 15 to 20 years, you never know. Teachers should have a living wage in our country. An effective career must be planned. A manager should have other careers, for example, undergraduate studies. Our teachers are lower than the OECD average on salary, making more students study, and our classrooms are even more crowded. Right now, 450,000 public teachers are waiting to be teachers at the door, and we raise 50,000 teachers every year. In addition, about 140,000 teachers are mentioned as free. Teachers do whatever work they can, they work, and if they can't get a job, they commit suicide. The types of staff created by the government have created a system of exploitation over teachers. This is the purmal of our teachers and students, Kemal Sunal. Professor Selçuk Smurf of the University of New York says preschool education is very important and is more important than the opening of a school in this group. The schooling rate between 3 and 5 years of age is 83 percent OECD, while we have 39 percent. Preschool education is the most important part of education. In pre-school education, there are fewer dropouts, and they are even more successful. 17 million students receive education in the first and middle school. What is our children's success in this matter? The PISA exams are a scale that measures the children of 38 OECD countries. Our kids go in there, too, and it leaves no room for the hammock. In 2003, Turkish children were the 35th in the OECD countries, while they were the 35th in the PISA exams, and they were the 50th in 2015, and we were the 40th in 2018. So that some countries adjust their system based on the results of the PISA exams. 17-year-olds have competency exams that show their achievements. Unfortunately, our children's success in this area in 2021 has been 17%. This is the kids we raised in high school, they're all from the same country, and they took the same test. Our performance in education is obvious. Young people in the country must receive a full - time education. For example, a religious man must be a master of philosophy, an Arabic speaker of other languages, excellent educated people. Religious people should be scholars who speak with knowledge and conscience, not puppets of politics. We have an incredible failure in manpower planning. Our country lacks the ability to develop interpersonal manpower, and the developed countries are aware of it. In many Western countries, vocational education is 60-70 percent, while we have about 43 percent. The quick way to get results in young unemployment is through vocational training. Businesses are looking for qualified manpower. The government should get insurance for children in these high schools, leave some pocket money, and prepare an internship at workplaces where they will respect themselves. In his speech six days ago, Mr. Shenol Sunat said that 40 per cent of vocational high school graduates were able to find work, whereas in elementary school graduates, it was 50 per cent. The sad part of this is that only 6 percent of them can find work and the rest can't find work. Only 60-65 per cent of children entering vocational schools graduate. The head of the Eskişehir Organised Industry Board said we can't find the source, the screwdriver. I said, "What are you doing?" He said, "We're opening courses for this, we're hiring them at the end of the course." I said, "How much are you paying?" He said, "We'll start it at £6,000." I said, "Well, how much do college graduates get?" He said, "They're getting $3,000, $4,000." Some industrial regions, such as the chairman of the Eskişehir Organised Industrial District Board, have given up hope of the state, have opened their own vocational schools, and are raising their own employees. In 2021, the government aided these schools. Do you know how much this is different from 2020? It's only 7 percent. That's what I did. That's what I was paid to say. In Turkey, between 15 and 19 years of age, the schooling rate is 69 per cent, while the OECD average is 84 per cent. When our country has a 6-14-year-old schooling rate of 99 per cent, the decline later indicates that access to education is a problem. Two years ago, the number of bilateral comprehensive schools in Eskişehir was 28 years old, and today it was 34. There is no high school in Emek neighborhood of Eskişehir, which has a population of 50,000 and has not been held in years. One of the two cities in our country where basic education is complete is Eskişehir. Can we say that there's good manpower planning and training in our country? The idea of providing low quality education with universities in recent years is an ideology of the EC PARTY. 9.8 per cent of our population continues to study high. In the United States, it is only 6 per cent and 4 per cent in Iran and South Korea. On one hand, the business world is looking for manpower, the graduates of higher education who can't find work on the other, the contradictions of Turkey. There are evaluation agencies in different universities of the world. According to 2002, when we had five universities in the first 300, we had only one university in 2020, according to the QS World University Rankings. THE EC PARTY governments use universities as a waiting room for unemployed people, a shallow education is given, the country's prestigious universities are discredited by ideological debates. The short description of our higher education institutions today is: Many students, few education, four years of distraction, and then God is powerful. Dear lawmakers, can we say that there are higher education planning and education in our country? A scientist who works for the head of the Good Party Education Policy has extensive studies on the doctorate in the world. One of the Norse countries invited him. In those Scandinavian countries, people with PhDs in regular staffs saw that if they were employed, there would be a lot of profit, and he asked our scientist for help. Our scientist finally saw that the Scandinavian country was unable to raise a Ph.D. student, and his proposal was to bring in an outside student. And right now, our children are going abroad, unfortunately. In our country, the number of PhD-level students is 1.3 percent in OECD countries, while the percentage of them are 2/1,000. This data shows that even though our country is a human resource, it can't benefit from it. Dear lawmakers, can we say that he has a good doctorate and planning in our country? Nineteen years of EC PARTY management have caused a serious loss of opportunities in education in our country. Lonely education lost? The welfare of the country, the enrichment of people, their happiness, and many things. Our chairman, Mr. Coral Akşener, is also able to provide quality education for 83 million, enough to establish the world's most advanced science centre, enough to put Turkey in the top 10 positions in PISA tests, enough to get Turkey into the top 10 largest economies. The problem is not that we don't have resources, but that those who run the state are troubled. Education is one of the most important factors that will lead the country to success. For a country with no natural resources, no land like ours, the most important opportunity is to increase our intellectual capacity. The AK PARTY wasted 20 years of the country, our children's eyes are abroad. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0076par0044	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0075par0045	If 75 percent of young people in one country are looking abroad, is there anything left in this country? It strengthened an idea that I had previously thought about, which is now in the language of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The EC PARTY has no concerns about working, good, development, and rising; so far, all actions have shown this. AK PARTY's new lullaby: ▪ Investment, employment, production. Let's see how far this lullaby goes. I'd like to ask the Minister a question. We just learned on social media that public banks have decided to increase capital. One: Is that true? And two, from what need, if he is truthful? I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0077par0050	Mr. Olcay Pilot, MP of Mersin who has requested a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Pilot.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0078par0053	Mr. President, I salute you, the esteemed MPs and the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Internet and Internet-based social media environments are digital environments that all humans, especially our young ones, benefit from. These technological possibilities can also become the source of very harmful situations for individuals and society, as they provide great ease for people. Today, on digital platforms, some programs, which broadcast under the name "mizah" for the sake of more ▪, are taking every value of the Turkish nation underfoot and pave the way for dehumanisation. There is no explanation for the joke. It is shameful to spread all kinds of blasphemy and to defend immorality. Is it not because of his money? It is fatigue to normalize these programs. In the program presented by a despicable show show, the host and audience are being attacked by their sense of decency, their shame, and their emotions. These are the ones who speak of shamelessness, immorality, corruption; these are the ones who carry indecency, abomination, and misery to the screen. It must not be forgotten that in the harvest of this country, there is the holy blood of millions of martyrs, the tears of mothers, fathers, brides, string strings. Turkey is the home of those who fight for honor and honor; Turkey is not a country that has no respect for any value, that needs neuter comfort seekers and ratings monkeys will adjust, that will vomit poison, that will never form. It is imperative that everyone in this country respect the glorious history of this country, its blessed heritage, and the values of the great Turkish nation. Therefore, the work and sanctions for blocking such programs should not be delayed, which we call digital terrorism. The literature that targets our Turkish family structure and values should not be evaluated under the name "Freedom of the press"; it should not cause digitalisation, cultural depression and the crisis of civilization. It is our government's duty to preserve the dignity of the Turkish nation. With these facts, work on national culture and Turkish youth must be increased. We truly believe that our young people will build our futures and ideals. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, Turkish youth has demands and expectations from us. It would be appropriate to grant student forgiveness to our young people who are forced to leave their studies behind, except those who have been cut off because of terrorist contact. More than 500,000 young people have lost their right to military service due to the withdrawal of their age from 29 to 22. Our young people are waiting for a full pardon. People who didn't mean life, whose driver's licenses were confiscated because of their violations of the rules, must also be granted a driver's license. As in the purchases of the gendarmes, officers and petty officers, it would be appropriate to consider the period of training within the designated quota and to implement a 32-year-old condition in the POMEM purchases, as well as a pension and wear-out share. It is important to reduce higher education dorm fees to a reasonable degree, to remove interest in student loans and repayment. It is expected that financial arrangements will cover all of our health workers who have served as sacrifices in behalf of the health of the Turkish human being and wrote self-sacrificing myths. In addition, 3600 additional indicators should be removed, not taxed on minimum wage, and EYT will be completed to cover all of our public employees. Our heroes, our security guards, who are the terror dreams of terrorists, are waiting for their salaries to be raised and their protection laws to be passed. Our industry needs interpersonal staff. It is strategically important to encourage vocational education, considering the fact that the interperson is also the main staff. Increase the number and quality of our vocational and technical upper secondary schools and co-operation between vocational education centres and industry will contribute substantially to our lack of qualified staff. SMA disease continues to hurt us. Supports for the cost of medicine and treatment should be increased. Mr. President, my constituency, Mersin, is one of Turkey's leading, brand and high value cities. In this scope, Mersin's agricultural power must be increased; the cost of input, such as fertilizer, bait, seed, diesel, electricity, and especially support and incentives for our lemon producers. The completion of the ongoing dams and ponds is vital to the allocation of treasured land to our manufacturers. The regional airport of Mersin, Mersin-Antalia, Silifke-Mut-Karaman, Çamlıyala-Tarsus, Ceshmeli-Stasher highways must be completed, the Mersin-Tarsus highway must be free. The problems of the port of Mersin and organised industrial areas must be resolved from transport. In our beautiful Mersin, a comprehensive action plan for tourism must be prepared to promote activities, and our Mersin will receive more investments in tourism. Mersin is also a city of industry and commerce. It is our demand to increase the economic power and influence of Mersin Harbor, to implement the Mersin Mother Container Harbor Project, to increase industrial investments in our city and lower natural gas prices used in industry, to provide natural gas access to districts in Mersin. Although they made promises of honor and honor before the elections, the victims of thousands of municipal employees who sought to earn their lawful provisions in Mersin, Adana and İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality must be eliminated on political and ideological grounds, wrongly and unlawfully. Do not cut blood on the bread of men, but fear God, and be ashamed of the servant. It is shameful, and it is sinful. None of our brothers who have been laid off is alone. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers should know that the Turkish state will not surrender, will never accept the appeal that has been shown to it, for those who ensue hatred, hatred and hatred and treachery and betrayal against the state, for those who rub their hands when the dollar rises, for those who expect power from foreign capitals. Our government will never let terror organizations and their ancestors live, and the root of betrayal will surely be wiped out with its collaborators. Those who aim to align the Turkish country with economic, diplomatic, political and military operations must know that they will not kneel before the seven duvets that make them their passwords. Those who think that they will reap a shroud should know that those who find the power they need in their veins will not be defeated, even if the world is destroyed. The Turkish country is strong, the Turkish nation is great, and the Turkish flag is waved with glory. No one will be able to break the province and customs of the Turkish nation unless the sky falls on top, and the ground is breached at the bottom. As long as there are MHP and the Cumhur Alliance, those who calculate over the Turkish country will be frustrated, and those who trap the Turkish nation will be devastated by historic destruction. Those who seek freedom for their baby-killers, terrorists and separatist terrorists, those who make the cities they've won into a farm of terror organizations, those who try to divide our land with the blood of martyrs, those who dare challenge our state, those who rise to the word of traitors, swear by God that you will be defeated; the faith of the great Turkish nation, the courage and the will of steel, will that you will perish.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0079par0071	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0078par0072	Finally, in the language, the idea has renewed our faith on the road to the Turkish Union of Turkish States, which is gathered together with unity at work. The adoption of Turkmenistan's monitoring membership, the establishment of the General Secretariat Building in Turkey, the adoption of the Turkish World Investment Fund and the 2040 Vision Document, has been a historic step towards strengthening social, political, economic, military and cultural ties between Turkish states. We believe tomorrow is the Turkic. May my presence be a gift to your Turkish presence! Blessed is he who says he's a Turk! I salute your high council.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0079par0075	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0080par0076	In the speech of Mr. Pilot, there is a claim against Republican People's Party municipalities that I would like to answer from my position.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0078par0077	I didn't say Republican People's Party municipalities, but you said so yourself.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0080par0078	I mean, that's what it sounds like when you say Mersin, Adana.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0081par0079	All right, take your seats.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0080par0080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute you and the Grand General Assembly. Politics is a matter of debate, a matter of negotiation, and I listened carefully to the speech. The argument is that people have been removed from municipalities, but the people who go to the ATM every month but never go to work, I'd like to point out. Second: As for this issue of terrorism, if anyone supports terrorism, it is Mr. Süleyman Soylu. For this reason, he said that we have identified 500 or so people who are members of the terrorist organization who were taken to İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0082par0084	More.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0080par0085	So, if it's too much, is he picking pears, my friend?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0083par0087	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0080par0088	There's no investigation into these people, let alone prosecution.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0084par0089	The dismissal of the disabled from Mersin Metropolitan Municipality...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0080par0090	Whatever knowledge you have, whatever wisdom you have, the republic's prosecutors are there, go there; the municipalities are not going to give you any bread by slandering you. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0084par0093	Yeah, well, I'm a witness.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0094	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0096	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0097	Our minister's speech is not true. They said it was a lie. They didn't accept it correctly, so I'd like to take a statement about it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0098	Mr. Nightingale, if he doesn't accept it, somehow he'll say it's not true. What do you expect him to say, do you expect him to accept it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0099	No, they said it was a lie.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0100	So he said it wasn't true.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0101	Sir...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0102	He said it wasn't true.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0103	Okay, and we'll say it's true, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0104	Well, okay, he already said, Mr. Pilot made it right, Mr. Group Vice President said it wasn't true. How are we going to solve this now?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0105	No, Mr. President, this doesn't give you the right to speak, does it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0106	I mean, did you expect the Republican People's Party Group to agree to this?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0107	So now, the ATM... No, I don't expect him to accept it, it's the bankmatic workers. He says, "They were just employees of the ATM." He says, "It's definitely wrong." Right now, he's saying that this conversation isn't right, that it's in a different way. We too want to make it right, according to 69.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0109	Okay. Do you want to talk about your position or the bench?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0110	I'd like to request from the bench, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0085par0111	Well, I promise you two minutes from the stand. I don't really think it's a tease, but here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0113	Mr. President, thank you. Now, during the Mr. Olcay Guide speech, during the municipal elections, especially after March 31st, the fact that their dismissals were carried out as a social injury, as a big problem, as a major victim, and in this process, we repeat them periodically. Before the 31 March elections, Mr. Kilicdaroglu made a very clear statement to all workers; I promise and guarantee to all workers: If the mayor of a city that we won wrongfully terminates a worker, he will come, he will find me; I will fall in front of him, I will restore his work to his former position, and I will create the working environment for him in his old job. He has shared his statement with the whole nation, with the public. Look, here, the ex-employees are waiting to be brought back to work with a verdict. Now, after the trial in the business courts, after it was determined that this worker had been fired for an unfair and invalid reason, this decision made by the law, which was made by the court, in which there were people who were disabled, martyrs, veterans...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0087par0115	No, no, no.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0116	No, no, I'm not just talking about Mersin.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0088par0117	Yeah, I paid him a visit.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0086par0118	In this sense, these sacrifices continue in Adana. Now, in an environment where there is no return like this, it is our debt to remind you of Mr. Kilicdaroglu's promise. Here, when you say "bankkamatic workers," you're in the ghetto. These people are people who actually work in these municipalities, and it's not right to say "bankkamatic worker" and get out. At this point, we expect the proper sensitivity to be shown and Mr. Kilicdaroglu will stand behind the promise of honor.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0089par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0090par0122	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0089par0123	Mr. Nightingale, there is a need for you to give an answer by reminding Mr. President of a speech from the bench that we are not standing behind this conversation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0090par0124	Here you go, and I promise you two minutes from the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0091par0126	It's not sarcasm, it's a diagnosis. And you're admitting it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0089par0127	Of course we do. Thank you. Very sincerely, Mr. Nightingale, we stand by our president's promise. As our president-in-chief has said, whoever has been wronged -- regardless of the party -- please, I beg you, I ask Olcay Bey, who has been wrongfully fired, please give it to me personally. I'm going to put it in front of my Mr. President, sir, he has an unjust claim against these people. I'm going to send 3-4 MPs from the Republican People's Party to Mersin. But of course, isn't there something wrong? Maybe, I won't say anything, but there's a truth, brother.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0092par0130	Mr. President, I'm a witness.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0093par0131	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0092par0132	A disabled brother is being laid off.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0094par0133	Thank you, thank you, I'd like to ask your name.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0092par0134	Our disabled brother's father was also a vegetable, and my disabled brother's father passed away. Our veterans have been banished. 3,500 people have been laid off, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0095par0135	Mr. Pilot, Mr. Engin demands the list from you. Go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0096par0137	Mr. Pilot, we're sincere about this. We don't lower our president's word to the ground. No mayor can bring down our president's word, and no mayor can. I'm asking you and my colleague, I want this list, we'll have it examined one by one. Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu's neck is to return to work if a person has been laid off under the slightest suspicion of partisanism. Yeah, it's an honest debt, and we'll do it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0097par0139	We'll follow.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0098par0140	Mr. President, there are those who have been acquitted among the KHK people, there are those who have been given non-obstruction. I'm telling the AK PARTY Deputy Director, who's sensitive, can he just go up there and say a few words about it? Why don't they start it, why don't they?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0099par0141	Mr. Aydoğan, thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Zuleyha Gülim is in charge.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0100par0149	We can no longer work in these conditions all over Turkey yesterday. We have the right to our milk and the health of the people. The health workers were on strike. The Turkish Medical Association, SES, İstanbul Medical Chamber, İSTAHED and First Step have voiced the demands of health workers at the call of the Health Workers' Union. They demanded that the bill on rights should include all physicians and all health workers, while even protesting the withdrawal of this incomplete bill. In the period of the plague, they said that they had been laid off from work, severely, poverty, that they had been worked for 36 hours in slavery, that they had been considered a cheap labor force, and that they had no longer endured this arrangement. Let's call from here: Let the health workers' rights be handed over at once. As millions of people struggle with hunger, poverty in Turkey, the power is incredibly irresponsible and reckless. Deep poverty is now too big to cover with your fancy sentences or lies from your pool media. Life's costs and increases, loans and bankruptcy have collapsed on society like a nightmare. You're saying new Turkey; look what you've created in the new Turkey. Now, people can't get full bagels, they can get half a bagel; people are trying to buy bread in long lines that grow in the rain so they can find cheaper bread; you're trying to stop opposition municipalities from selling bread. People are buying single diapers; cabbages are being sold as quarters. A marketer says: "I just sold a quarter of a cabbage to a customer. If there are still people who say economics is good, let the horse take off his glasses and look around. A retired citizen is going to give the bread to the chickens in a factory where he goes looking for work. He brings it to his house and eats it himself and tells it crying, you know? You're trying to cover poverty and misery with abuse of religion, and you're telling people to be patient. So let us make a covenant, and give to the people all your wealth and all your capital. So let us be patient together. The Minister of Finance says if you get paid, what do you lose the most, you'll be crushed by inflation, but if this doesn't work out, I'll lose all my assets. That's the problem, isn't it? While you have countless possessions, the people are starving. How is it that laborers, working day and night, face a wage like minimum wage, and from where you lie, there are countless riches? Well, that's just plain unfair. It's immoral to put the TL (TL) into the currency. You say, "It's immoral." You make a deal with Qatar over the dollar and sell the Port of Antalya. You're not only destroying today, you're destroying our future. The religion says that donations taken under a Damla Life Project can be made with dollars, so how does that work? Take out what's under the pillow. You say, "Let go of the pillow, let go of the pillow, the citizen has no pillows." In one week, seven people took their own lives. In one day, three people took their own lives in the city of Aydın. • Parents who had children of 1.5 years of age committed suicide. • wrote work-work-work on their hands, and committed suicide. He hung himself in his truck. He said, "My children burned themselves in front of the governorship." He said, "I have only one lira left." And all this is news that we've heard so often. Are you ashamed of any of this? Fatma Demirel was driven to suicide because of your persecution with the KHK. You have imposed civilian death on the KHK people. We have heard the words of your followers, saying, "Let them eat bark or bark for me. Let them go away. The words of your followers belong to you. 700,000 musicians are out of work in this country, over 100,000 musicians have committed suicide. In February last year, my children were hungry in front of Hatay Governor's office. Adem Halfcı who burned himself saying he was hungry was the work of your new Turkey, the suicide of four brothers in Istanbul because of his debts. In Germany they say that tails and tails can't find food in France. There's nothing wrong with Turkey. Yes, the people's hunger, poverty, of course you don't mind. Millions of shopkeepers have reached the point where they can't bring bread to their homes. Thousands of small businesses in distress face executions. Because of your agricultural policies, farmers no longer cover the costs; they lose all production tools, land because of their debt to your agricultural co-ops, banks, loan sharks. The farmer says: "This power feeds its followers, it brings the people to their knees." What will people eat if the peasant doesn't produce? We don't eat anything! Our hearts ache, enough of this dictatorship! [[Applause from HDP rows]] After graduating, students face unemployment problems while struggling with debt from higher interest student loans. Operational surveillance has been launched on approximately 400,000 young people in debt from KYK. The students can't find shelter, stay. What are you guys doing? The students who come to Ankara to demand their rights can't be taken into custody by beating and beating the students who want to make a forum of a transitional problem at Ankara University. Well, if everything's as bright as you say it is, there's no problem, why are you trying to keep people quiet? Why do you keep him from saying his voice, his word? Because your problem is to protect your power, and you have nothing else to worry about. The total income of the richest 8 million people in Turkey is more than the total income of the remaining 75 million; you created this system. You say to the people, "We are at war for salvation!" and you say, "Suffer poverty!" While you do not compromise your luxurious lives, while you send the poor of this country to war, to death, your children continue to live a luxurious life. Here, fight to save your power; we're not on the same ship, we've never been on it. The people are getting poor because you're rich. You and your capitalist exploitation scheme are doomed to perish. Oh, by the way, your atrocities were on the throne, you have no place to sleep! It's not enough that you run the country like a company, you run prisons like a company. Now you want $200 a month for video search of prisons. How will the prisoners with no income afford it? It doesn't seem to be enough that you work prisoners in prisons as cheap labor. In prisons, people have to lie on the edges of toilets, they have to live in unhealthy conditions, electricity, water, everything has money, but this is not enough, and you say: "He will pay in advance for the visible speech." You continue to impose death on the heavily ill prisoners. I want you to look at these photos: Two more patients have died in the last two days. Halil Sun, who was lying in Diyarbakır Prison, was a lung and bone cancer; he cannot stay in the prison of Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital. Despite the report, you would call it the "Adli Medical Institution" (Adli Medical Institution), in fact, independent, free of humanity, determined to send sick prisoners to their deaths on your ideological grounds, there has been no postponement on the report. There have been dozens of applications for the release of the Sun. In his letter to the IHD, his sister wrote: "My brother, who has been transferred to Diyarbakır Type F Prison, which has not even been completed by torture under the name of Love, is trying to continue his life in unhealthy conditions. My brother hasn't been taken to the controls for six months, and my brother is being charged with death. If the circumstances are not immediately corrected, my brother's health will become incurable. He called my brother death, and we cannot accept it. Unfortunately, Halil Sun died yesterday. The prisoner who lost another life was Abdülrezak Shuyur, a heavily ill prisoner in Şakran Type T Prison, who also died two days ago. He was diagnosed with lung cancer; his right to live was ignored, his treatment prevented. In many ways, the court had actually ruled a violation of rights. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that there was no fair trial and violation of rights during the trial process, but you ignored the right to live and sentenced Abdulrezzak Shuyur to death.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0101par0161	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0100par0162	Not only these two examples, but thousands of patients live in prison under the same conditions. You're responsible for the deaths of all prisons, the Department of Justice is responsible, knowingly sending people to their deaths. We know you're doing this with a sense of vengeance, a sense of vengeance, and we know very well that you're doing it with enemy criminal law, enemy execution law, but you must know that this persecution will not last until the end of your order. These people will answer for what you have done because of this system of persecution and for the fact that you are killing people. And those days aren't far off.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0101par0164	Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök has requested a statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0102par0167	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love. Ten years ago, on 28 December 2011, the day began normal in Uludere, Roboski, and Roboski. Two days later, the next Christmas excited everyone, the new hope of Christmas, the new claims, the future, all the young people of the village. As they have done over the years, because there was no other source of income in their villages without agriculture, without trade, that day 38 young people would go across the border to buy diesels and make only 150 lira a mule. 38 young men and 70 mules prepared to go to Iraq, each of them said goodbye to their mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters at home. The mothers were anxious, concerned. They said, "Don't go, my sons. " But they were determined because they needed to make money. When he was 19, his mother hugged him, Shivan said, "Don't go today." He said, "Because the next day they would ask Shivan for a girl." Celal, 16 years old, played very well, his friends used to call him "Messi (Massi)." Bedran, Mohammed, Erkan, Shivan were 13 years old, and their mother didn't want to take them out of their warm beds, but they had to make money, so they had to prove their maturity. 38 young men, 70 mules, crossed Iraq, took their diesels, and returned excitedly to celebrate the new year with money and with the beauty of the new year. While they were excited, the Turkish Armed Forces were also excited. Intel from the Turkish Armed Forces recently suggested that the PKK's military wing manager, Fehman Hussein (Fehman), would enter Turkey and act. The soldiers were confused, there was a lot of intel coming in, and the boys were being watched by drones for hours. The Joint Chiefs had to make a decision. The General Staff decided to fire first, but at 7:03 a.m., the current Chief of Staff, then General Intelligence Chief Yasar Guler, arrived at headquarters. Yaşar Güler has made the decision not to shoot a cannon. He had to go to the 2nd Chief of Staff and get it approved in a hierarchical structure. Yasar Güler received the file, and in 1920, the Chief of Staff went to the current National Defence Minister Hulusi Akar. But since it was a cross-border operation, the Chief of Staff needed permission. At the time, Chief of Staff Necdet Special was in session with the National Security Council. Hulusi Akar called Necdet Special, reported the situation, and said, "We are catching Fehman Hussein." Necdet, who was on the National Security Board at the time, took the Special File, had it brought to his residence, and decided to approve the air operation. Young people didn't know what would happen when they entered the border, they were divided into four groups. The first bomb was dropped at 21.39, then the second bomb at 21.43, then the third bomb, then the fourth bomb. The families in the village were surprised, they all went out. The whole mountain was like a fireball, lit with lights. But something was falling from the sky. The families were trying to understand what fell from that sky, but they could not know at that moment that the pieces that fell from the sky were the legs of Shivan, the heads of Cemal, and the limbs of others. Like rain from the sky, children's limbs were falling from the sky, young people's limbs. But at that moment, everyone realized that there was a mistake, and it was soon understood that there was no Fehman Hussein in the group. Then it got messy, and a call came in. Young people, families, will not remain in the dark seas when they are found responsible or when they are searched. The promise was made. But it was so clear that three years later Idris Naim Şahin, who was then a member of the Home Secretary and the National Security Council, made a statement that the state knew what was what. The intelligence source for that incident was MIT. He was denied in the beginning, but the truth is, he gave it to me. The information was that Fehman Hussein would pass in camouflage with that group of smugglers and attack them. This is a big fish, not intelligence to pass up. That knowledge came to me and to all concerned. He tried to be the voice of his conscience. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, it wasn't dark, it was very clear. It's an event where the state's entire upper tier is in the union of fate and the process of decision-making is taken together, Roboski. Everyone knew. And who was that senior MIT official? The most senior MIT official I know is Hakan Fidan. If Hakan Fidan gave the intel in this case, he would have said, "I did." If he didn't, he must have explained which senior MIT official was giving intelligence. Dear friends, it's been ten years since New Year's Day in Uludere, and no one wants New Year's Eve in Roboski, because it means December 28 is coming. So every December 28th, I get weird, I walk around my house, I try to stop my watch when I'm walking around my house, I stop my watch at 21.39, when the first bomb was dropped -- I want those bombs to stop before that -- I want them to explode, so that the children don't break, I want Mehmet Ali Tosun, Özcan Uysal, Cemal Encu, Selim Encu, Selim Alma, Selahattin Encu, Celal Encu, Bilal Encu, Nevzat Encu, Husü Encu, Huscu, Gescu, Salek, Salrek, Salrek, Salrek, Salek Encu, Salek Encu, Salek Encu, Selim Encu, Selim Alma, Selahattin, Selahattin Encu, Bilal Encu, I want to stop my watch, Bilal Encu, I want them to stop. Dear friends, this budget does not bring justice to Roboski; Roboskis looked at this budget and said it is not the budget of Roboskis and Uluderes. For after ten years there came no more justice to Roboski, and to Uludere. Dear young men, my dear children, my dear children, my dead young brothers, we know we can't bring you back to your mothers, but where you are, where you are, every Thursday, try to sleep comfortably in the grave of your mothers who visit you. There will surely be justice in this country, and there will surely be no getting away with it, and the responsibility of the state will surely be fulfilled in this country. O my sons! We do not make lawful to you, but We will surely deal with those who do. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Though we cannot bring you back to your beloved mothers, fathers, and brothers in Roboski, be assured that justice will surely come to Roboski one day, and he will surely be called to account. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0103par0181	Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, the Kayseri MP who requested a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0104par0183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Ten years ago, in Uludere, a intelligence agency called Fehman Hussein (a terrorist organization) has been informed that one of the leaders of the terrorist organization, which has persecuted our security forces in our country for 40 years, one of the PKK's terrorist organizations who have been in the region, will pass through Turkey and settle in Syria. Our esteemed MP Levent Gök Bey has just tried to explain the incident with his dates and minutes. In the historical process, our current Chief of Staff, our National Minister of Defence and MIT President Hakan Fidan Bey stated that the work was within the scope of intelligence. In his statement, he highlighted this: an intelligence called "Fehman Hussein" to prevent one of the leaders of the PKK's terrorist organization from going to Syria via Turkey and supporting a terrorist organization there. But the results were a result of an incident that we could not truly accept in Uludere, which hurt all consciences, in accordance with the results of the intelligence. As a matter of fact, at the first moment, the action, as if there were Fehman Hussein, the movement, then, from there, outside the border, using young cubs who came into Turkey and were reported to be smuggling there, was camouflaged, infiltrated among them, and made it look like a process because the terrorist organization was already doing it. The terrorist organization was trying to shield young men, young men, women, to transfer their leaders from place to place, to conduct their activities. Now, you have to ask the end: did the leaders of the terrorist organization -- those children, threatening them, or otherwise -- do they do what they did before, their activities, cross-border movements, what they did to get inside Turkey, to create chaos, and to give orders to terrorists who were nesting in Turkey -- did they use those puppies to do that?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0105par0186	What instructions, what instructions?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0104par0187	Or was that intel accurate, or did he get information that was being obtained by both the Undersecretary of the National Defence and the Chief of Staff of General Staff and that murderer, Fehman Hussein, had given up on it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0106par0188	Well, even so, his compatriot...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0107par0189	How do you justify that?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0104par0190	In false intelligence, given false intelligence, were they willing to risk those sons of ours losing their lives over there as a result of false intelligence?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0106par0191	Mr. President, how can you clear this?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0108par0192	How do you launder it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0109par0193	There's no reason for such a massacre.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0194	Did they do that? You have to question him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0195	Did you kill them on purpose then?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0196	Mr. Sky is telling the truth, our babies, those people...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0197	Then you're explaining that you murdered on purpose.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0198	Well, I'm telling the PKK, are you from the PKK?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0199	Yeah, what's that got to do with it? Then you murdered our citizen on purpose.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0200	I'm telling the terrorist, are you a terrorist?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0201	You murdered him on purpose. You murdered the citizen on purpose.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0112par0202	Mr. Toğrul, Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0203	Come on, I'm talking to a terrorist.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0204	You murdered the citizen knowingly, knowingly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0113par0205	There's no reason for that, there's no reason for that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0206	I'm talking to the terrorist.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0207	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0208	My target is the terrorist, my target is the PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0209	You're justifying the killing of 10 citizens, making sense.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0210	So, brother, you're the terrorist organization's lawyer?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0211	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0212	Why are you bothering with the terrorist organization?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0213	Then you did it knowingly when our citizen was murdered.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0114par0214	Mr. Elitaş, please address the General Assembly...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0215	Why are you bothering with the PKK terrorist organization? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Over there, in Uludere, we have the pain of our young who have lost their lives.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0217	It's not.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0218	I'm asking who's responsible for this.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0219	You're trying to justify there's a Fehman Hussein.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0115par0220	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0221	I'm questioning them whether the PKK terrorist organization is responsible for this, the Fehman Husseins or others.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0111par0222	It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0116par0223	There's no reason for those kids to get killed.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0224	Today the government must answer for it, if there is one, the guilty must answer for it. He says, "I agree."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0117par0225	When, when?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0226	Now, who are we to answer for that? That's where you'd be given false intel if the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0118par0227	The police department knows when those boys are leaving, everyone knows.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0119par0228	Mr. Toğrul...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0110par0229	Mr. President, I'm not dealing with this friend.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0119par0230	Mr. Toğrul, please, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0120par0231	But that can't happen!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0119par0232	If you have something to say, say it from the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0120par0233	He can't clear the massacre!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0119par0234	Mr. Toğrul, please, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0121par0235	Mr. President, I didn't tell the HDP Group or anyone else...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0119par0236	Mr. Elitaş, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0121par0237	The only person I'm targeting is that fucking PKK terrorist organization. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Why do you take offense?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0119par0240	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0122par0241	Our citizen was murdered.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0121par0242	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0123par0243	34 children are dead.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0124par0244	The children were killed, children.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0121par0245	Look, my dear lawmakers, the sensitivity is very important: In this country, before 1980, 5,000 young people tried to ripen and mature the conditions of the coup, and now the coup is inevitable if the conditions are available. Between 1977 and 1979, 4,500 of our young people were turned on each other by the right-right-left-left.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0125par0246	Don't tell stories!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0126par0247	You just missed the marathon massacre, you just missed that massacre!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0127par0248	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0128par0249	Our friends who were in college went through this, and now we're seeing the pain. We see who's being manipulated.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0127par0251	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0128par0252	But since 1983, the PKK has been feeding the terrorist organization...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0129par0253	Roboski was at the time of this power, in your power; what does it have to do with 1980?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0128par0254	...trying to use them as pawns, the instrument of foreign subsidiaries, during which they slaughtered 40,000 Kurdish brothers today. Who killed him? The PKK has slaughtered a terrorist organization. Today comes to mind the question mark...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0129par0255	Why don't you answer for your own slaughter?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0128par0256	Why are you being removed from the PKK? Why are you being offended by the promise of the PKK?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0130par0257	We're offended for the children who died, screaming for the children who were killed.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0128par0258	My goal is the PKK, my goal is the cursed terrorists; I curse the terrorist, not the MP.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0130par0260	We're screaming for the murdered children. The children you killed...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0131par0261	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0128par0262	My target, my enemy, is a terrorist, who killed the children of this country, not anyone else.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0132par0263	Right now, you're laundering the murder of 38 citizens you've murdered. There was Fehman Hussein in the group, and we slaughtered for him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0133par0264	You're doing demagogue!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0134par0265	Congressmans, please take our seats. I'll give you my word if you ask for it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0135par0267	Now, we must all experience this sensitivity together. 40,000 of our people, more than 10,000 of our security guards, in this struggle...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0136par0268	Then the PKK has a plane!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0135par0269	We have to deal with whoever caused his death in this brother fight.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0136par0270	It's you. You are the cause of Roboski. You are the perpetrator. Why don't you answer?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0137par0271	How many years has it been? Why hasn't one been tried?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0135par0272	Today, more than 10,000 security guards, guards, our people who are trying to protect the country's unity, unity, and borders... just as Levent Sky said, 31 of our young...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0136par0273	It's not 31, it's 34; you don't even know the number! You don't know the number yet!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0138par0274	All right, that's enough! That's enough.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0135par0275	...in the frame of which they slaughtered his life in Uludere, we must show the same tenderness and affection and love for them, the pain of conversation for us, for 50,000 of our people who live in this country. Is that because there was a Fehman Hussein with that intelligence organization or intelligence information, and then he gave up?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0136par0276	Bomb him and talk to him!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0139par0277	Ten years have passed, ten years. There's been a massacre, it's been ten years.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0140par0278	Don't shout, please, don't shout.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0139par0279	Why haven't you answered in ten years?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0141par0280	President, not like this, a massacre does not exonerate the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0142par0281	We believe he should be investigated, too.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0139par0282	There was a massacre.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0141par0283	That's not gonna happen. Look, this is why the massacre happened. This is a massacre, a crime against humanity, a crime against humanity.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0143par0284	Mr. Toğrul, what do you want? Will you please shut up? Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0139par0285	There's talk of a massacre, a massacre.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0286	Dear lawmakers, in the ten years since the Uludere incident...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0145par0288	Mr. President, when they speak, when one person makes a sound, they die. When a person yells from here, you jump. It's not like a Group Vice President can't speak, the Group Vice President can't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0146par0289	He says the cause of 34 deaths is Fehman Hussein.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0290	Mr. President, I'm not targeting any political party or MP here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0147par0291	Yes, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0292	Only my word to the terrorist organization, but as long as I say terrorist, they stand up from here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0147par0293	Why don't you address the General Assembly? Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0295	I curse the PKK's terrorist organization, they're touchy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0148par0296	You're doing something else.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0297	What are you showing feisty about? Damn the terrorist organization, God damn it, and God damn those who support terrorism. [[Applause from EC PARTI and MHP rows, noise from HDP rows]] Look, our sensitivities, our pain, the injustice that is done to every human being in this country is our pain.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0149par0300	You didn't judge the massacrers, you didn't answer.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0150par0301	It's because you're lying, it's a lie.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0302	The heart desires that we should not suffer this kind of pain, that there should be no more such pain; that brother should not be an enemy to brother, neither should he draw a gun on brother, neither should he lie in ambush.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0151par0303	Well, judge me. You're in power, why didn't you judge?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0152par0304	You did it, you did it, you did it in Suruç, you did it all in Ankara.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0305	But look, I don't think it's right to make politics here about a mistake that's been made.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0153par0306	Your name is the Justice Party, but the biggest massacres took place during your time.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0154par0307	You're going out as Deputy Director of the Group to clear this massacre. A group of vice presidents is going out to clean up the massacre, and that's not supposed to happen here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0144par0308	Ten years ago in Uludere, the sufferings of those families, we share our pain, their pain, our patience, our condolences, but I condemn the 40 years of terror caused by the goddamn PKK terror organization against this country with violence and hatred. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0155par0311	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0156par0312	You're still saying it's a mistake. You're the biggest mistake, your power! It's a mistake... 34 people are dead, he says!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0157par0313	Whose fault is it? What kind of mistake?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0156par0314	The massacre was a mistake...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0158par0315	We'll silence the terrorists!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0159par0316	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Fivestone, I'd like to hear it. Please don't shout. If anyone asks for a word, I promise. Why are you shouting?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0158par0317	Tell me that way!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0160par0318	President, I demand word then.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0159par0319	You can't tell when you're yelling. Mr. Beştaş, why do you demand the word? Explain it to me first.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0161par0321	I demand my position according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0159par0322	That's a short word for 60...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0161par0323	Short, very short.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0159par0324	But it's only been 60 for a minute. Tell me why, I'll give it to you from the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0161par0325	Mr. President, just because I'm being bullied right now, you know, trying to clear 34 civilians for the slaughter of Turkish fighter planes. This is bullying humanity, leave the HDP Group alone. I mean, I can take promises of bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0162par0326	Okay, he picked on the PKK. Say it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0159par0327	Well, here you go. I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0163par0328	I want it on the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0159par0329	Mr. Beştaş, wait a minute, I'll start your time. Mr. Toğrül, there's been no bullying, I don't understand why you're yelling so loud.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0163par0331	There's a bullying against humanity.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0164par0332	The PKK was bullied.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0163par0333	The massacre of 34 citizens has been cleared here. How can I remain silent in the massacre of 34 citizens?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0165par0335	Aren't 50,000 people the ones who killed 50,000 people?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0164par0336	Friends are normal, they want to talk about bullying the PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0166par0337	Okay, sit down. The Deputy Director of the Group has already requested and will speak for him. Here you go, Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0167par0339	Mr. President, thank you. I beg your pardon. I, Roboski, am one of the first to go with 34 dead mules on their backs, and I am one of the first to see those children's broken funerals, and their pain, that mule photo, and the mothers of those children will never come out of my ears for the rest of my life. That's why I think it's inhuman to read from the outside and try to clear people, but first of all, I'll tell you that. Roboski has many qualities, but the Roboski massacre was a massacre by Turkish fighter planes during the AK PARTI period, and I was there after the roboski massacre. Huseyin Çelik was then the Party Speaker, until evening hours, he didn't even explain until the other evening, 34 children were dead, and right now in front of me are Prime Minister Erdogan, the Speaker, and others, thanking the Chief of Staff. We know that the police station warned about this massacre, we know that even the police station warned them, these are children who went across the border and bought cigarettes and packages. I address the conscience of all lawmakers, for the first time in the history of the law in Turkey, the prosecutor used the concept: "The inevitable mistake." He said, "For the first time in the history of law."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0168par0344	Let's wrap it up. Here you are, Miss Coral.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0169par0346	Mr. President, I want one too.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0170par0347	What do you mean, there's such a concept in law, the inevitable mistake. What does that mean? Turkish fighter planes are dropping bombs, 34 children's feet, legs, arms are ripped off, and then they're not being investigated, they're going to the Air Force, and they're being given orders in the Air Force command file, they're all in that sequence of instructions. So Elitaş can't do it by trying to clear Roboski's account in this world and in the next, and he can't give it to God. I invite you to a conscience about this. The Roboski families still mourn every week on Thursday, still seeking justice. Don't let them defend the massacre in power, there's no sensitivity here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0168par0349	I see, well, thank you. Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0171par0351	Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş has claimed that I am defending this matter.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0172par0352	He wouldn't listen, he wouldn't listen.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0173par0353	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0171par0354	In the framework of what I have done, as Mr. Gök put it, as Mr. Gök told the events, I began the framework of this from the 1980s, even from the 1970s...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0174par0355	It goes from 1800 to Celali Rebellions.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0175par0357	Listen to me, listen to me!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0176par0358	Listen, disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0177par0360	You guys go ahead and don't shout, this is your Deputy Group President speaking.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0175par0361	We listened!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0177par0362	You're yelling more, will you sit down? Sit down. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0178par0364	I cannot believe that Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) attorneys will be in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. If there are those who have identified the PKK terror organization, which slaughtered 50,000 people today, they have committed the crime of humanity against this nation. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's what we're expressing. We say if there's a mistake there, if the criminal called Fehman Hussein is using those cubs to cross over Turkey, and a terrorist organization in Syria is planning to establish a terrorist state and attack terrorists stationed in Turkey, our armed forces, our security forces...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0179par0365	On a plane from Ankara...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0178par0366	And then we say that if he gave up, it should also be paid, but I say it's not appropriate for Mr. Bestaş to call me a crime of humanity. I don't want to condemn him. People are condemning him. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0180par0369	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş said in his speech, I can't believe that the lawyers of the terrorist organization are in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0178par0370	I said I don't believe in it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0181par0371	Here, I'll give you two minutes off the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0182par0373	It's the PKK, your people are screaming. Is that a lie? Every time you say PKK, every time you say terrorist, they make a scene.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0183par0375	You'll pay for our son.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0181par0376	Come in, come in. Your friends are shouting, Mr. Beştaş, what can I do?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0184par0377	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I truly invite you all to your conscience, truly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0185par0378	We love you, too.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0186par0379	Don't exploit it, you're exploiting it. Don't spoil it!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0184par0380	No organization has a lawyer here. There are reactions to the suffering of human values, the rule of law and a massacre. All of the MPs here have gone to Roboski.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0186par0381	So we went. So I went.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0184par0382	They all have contact with families. Mr. Elitaş, I speak to your conscience that your claim that Fehman Hussein founded this game, whoever it was, even the prosecutor couldn't say it, not even intelligence, over ten years ago, no one said anything like that. After Mr. Levent Gök's speech today, why did you need such a exoneration? You said you were sensitive, and then you connected it somewhere else. Yeah, Roboski is a massacre case with more evidence than ever before in Turkey and the history of the world. Yes, the General Staff says that the FTL has already dropped the bomb. It's the chain of command. It says that we did it. It says: "There is an inevitable error." Look, I made a point, and there's a policy of free will that you're showing right now, at the highest level, that the pain of those families can't be eased. If he wants to face this massacre, he must judge the perpetrators, answer to the perpetrators. What are you gonna tell the mother of 34 kids? Their children were torn to pieces, and they made headlines. I mean, what can I say if the parents are watching us right now? The Minister of the Interior said to the massacres, he said something else, Mehmet Metiner said something else, Huseyin Çelik said something else. We're just saying, understand the pain; understand the pain.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0187par0385	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0188par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0187par0387	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0188par0388	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Levent Gök's recent speech has sparked an important, heated discussion of the Roboski massacre, which Mr. Levent Gök has brought up in the parliament, which, of course, has led to this: Mr. Elitaş, in terms of our citizens who have not listened to Mr. Gök's speech, is required to use a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0189par0390	He didn't make any positive references, but...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0190par0391	You want to talk about negative reference?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0188par0392	Affirmative... no, no, that's not what I said.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0191par0393	A request for a word according to 60 is not a taunt, Mr. Elitaş. Here you go, Mr. Sky. You know your time. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0192par0396	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, we've evaluated one of the most important events in our recent history. Why isn't there justice for Roboski, we're questioning it. These people were promised, but these promises were not kept. Our compatriots in Roboski were so loyal to the state that the families of the children who died were rangers, and one of them was rangers, and eight months after that, a military vehicle fell down in Roboski, nine of our soldiers were killed, four of our soldiers were injured.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0193par0397	Uludere Mr. Levent Gök, Uludere. We've told you this before, Uludere. You're right. You said the same thing. That's where the nation is.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0194par0398	Roboski is named separately. Why not Roboski?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0193par0399	That's where the nation is.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0194par0400	Roboski.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0195par0401	Uludere County, Roboski is a village.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0194par0402	It's a village, you don't even know it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0196par0403	We told you on the commission that it's Uludere.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0197par0404	In Roboski, in Uludere, these families went to the van that fell, and they took our soldiers out of the van, and they took them to the hospital.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0198par0406	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0197par0407	So, regardless of the suffering of an attack by the Turkish Armed Forces, leaving the loss of their children, the Turkish Armed Forces removed our soldiers from the vehicle that was killed by the overthrow of a military vehicle that our soldiers were in, and took them to the hospital. On one hand, the bankruptcy of the state, the common sense and humanity of our people. That's why Roboski deserves justice, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0198par0409	In the name of the bands...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0199par0410	Mr. President, just put it on the record. There's a lot of words, but I'll also say this to Mr. Elitas, who ordered the Roboski massacre, Air Force Commander Mehmet Effin, was given the State Supreme Service Medal. I'm glad you gave it to me. It was a medal.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0198par0411	Yes, Mr. Beştaş, copy that. The group's demands have been met and will now be met on behalf of their individuals. The first request is for a statement from Mr. Arzu Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0200par0416	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 16th article of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute and salute you in person, with the honor and honor of you, our beloved nation, the descendants of Köroglu, the trustees of my beloved Bolulu people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, we regret to see that they are trying to disrupt the psychological climate by creating a chaotic table without computing the political, social impacts that could be called a crisis tactic of the unchanging sense of opposition in budget talks. This sadness is growing exponentially because of the opposition's saying, which is hollow, vague, able to evolve according to the situation. Because rhetoric, in fact, is a sign of future actions.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0201par0419	He's coming...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0200par0420	The uncertainty is that we will come with our friends in each conversation, because those who use the expression prevent them from telling us who their friends are. (AK PARTY) Are these friends the outsiders who say, "We need to strengthen the opposition." Are they the ones who support the ambassadors? Or in the local elections, the HDP MP's mayors will know that if they were elected, they would have been elected by our votes. The question is, is it HDP?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0201par0421	How much is the dollar?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0202par0422	You must have a lot of dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0200par0423	It also makes you wonder why people hide their friends. If your friends are the people who need to be kept hidden... who may be members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) within a group of MPs, but in the end, it is a legal party. Speaking of which, why are you embarrassed and afraid? If you feel the need to hide it in case the public reacts, we leave it to our nation in the first place to appreciate the attitude to deceive the public. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] I'd like to address my fellow men from the people's podium, the women who are as strong as a tree when you lean, let's tell you about those who seem to care about you -- the ones who seem to care about you -- the ones who are chosen -- the ones in the House. In the April 23rd format, during their proposal for the implementation of what they call "the fermuar system," "the AK PARTI" (AK PARTİ) is a blessing to the women's so-called women's surrogates... (Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0203par0426	You couldn't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0200par0427	So I leave it to you women to appreciate that those who cannot bear the weight of this nation's House have the means to carry the responsibility of this nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0204par0429	Are you going to the market in your life?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0200par0430	We've seen in the House talks that the banner is essential, but we're not going to show pictures of them so their souls don't get hurt, but we're going to remind them of those who carry firewood and friends.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0204par0431	Don't you have a bad conscience? Open your eyes a little.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0200par0432	Second Lieutenant Abdulsalam was a child of Özatak Hakkarili; he had nine brothers; he took them all with him, and began to teach them. They couldn't tell their brother he was dead. Your mother missed you. They took you to their homeland. Aybüke Yalçın was an eight-month music teacher when he became a martyr.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0205par0434	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0200par0435	If so, on your conscience. There is no religion in the one who kills me. It was the last song he sang. Then let's finish with a story. The only bird that dares peck an eagle is the crow. He sits on the eagle and bites his neck, but the eagle doesn't answer, just spreads its wings and starts to rise in the sky. The higher the flight, the harder the crow is to breathe, and the crow falls from lack of oxygen. So what we're saying is let's keep flying high, let the crows worry about the rest! [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices, applause; noise from CHP rows]] I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0206par0439	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0207par0440	Here you go, Mr. Altay, from the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0206par0442	Thank you to Mr. Arzu Aydın. In public, he gave me the opportunity to rephrase a partially misunderstood issue, to correct it. Exactly what I said, Mr. Congressman, is that people are terrorists, institutions are not terrorists. I gave the example: I said, "There are people in the terrorist organization of ISIS who belong to the terrorist organization. In case it's leaked, I wouldn't call the AK PARTI a terrorist organization."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0208par0443	Why don't you start the same sentence for your own party?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0206par0444	It could infiltrate any party, as some terrorist groups may have infiltrated the HDP.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0208par0446	There's no such thing in AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0209par0447	It's not in the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0206par0448	You like this HDP part, but why don't you like the AK PARTY part?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0210par0450	I don't have one. No? No, no, no!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0211par0453	No, it's good, they're saying no. We don't have it!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0212par0455	They're the loudest!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0211par0456	It's none of my business.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0213par0457	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0211par0458	What I'm saying is, get rid of this terror and martyrdom.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0214par0459	They defend, they defend the PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0215par0460	They're the loudest!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0216par0461	Congressmans, Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0217par0462	Look, the dollar goes to 16, the euro goes to 18, the people are miserable. People who couldn't find dry bread last year can't find half a loaf of bread now. Focus on your work, but I can visually show you hundreds of examples of a terrorist organization infiltrating the AK PARTi.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0218par0463	Show me!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0217par0464	I didn't mean it in a reasonable sense, so it's reasonable, it's not true... it may have infiltrated you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0218par0465	Well, I say damn him, does he say to the PKK?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0219par0466	He may have infiltrated you, too.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0217par0467	Could be, could be, could be. That's what I said to him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0218par0468	Does he say, "God damn the P.K.K.K."?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0220par0469	Mr. Eronat...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0217par0470	May the PKK curse you, and the AK PARTI, who said to ISIS, "Let him not reduce the bullet."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0221par0472	What do we have to do with ISIS?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0222par0473	Give it to him, give it to him, give it to him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0223par0474	Mr. President, Mr. Altay said to God damn the AAK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0224par0475	Just a minute, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0222par0476	Let him say it, and I say fuck him, and he says it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0224par0477	Mr. Eronat, I can't hear your Group Chairman.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0225par0478	No, no.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0226par0479	No, that's what you said. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0225par0480	I said to ISIS, "God forbid you reduce your bullet." You wouldn't call that an AK PARTY guy, would you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0226par0481	Then it was wrong, look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0225par0482	I told ISIS not to let God reduce his bullet.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0227par0483	Let the defenders do the same.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0228par0484	Mr. Elistash, it's not polite to come all the way to the stand and turn it back; it's not polite. Come in, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0229par0486	Mr. President, I apologize, I said...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0230par0487	No, I want the same wish found by Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0229par0488	...because our friends are so noisy that I...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0231par0489	Okay, I get it. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0229par0491	Now, the valued lawmakers, the PKK, are an organization that has existed in this country for 60 years. First, the Republican People's Party's Secretary-General - God rest his soul - they have connections with Kassim Gülek. But we can't say that the Republican People's Party has united the terrorist organization, raised it, and the first seed was thrown from there.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0232par0492	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0233par0493	Yeah, there's a photo of your minister, or there's a picture of him side by side.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0229par0494	I think it was the 24th term -- that we had five MPs, one of whom was a Kayseri MP, and that's when we found out that one of them was Hakan, the national footballer who was called...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0233par0495	Yes, the photo of your Minister, you've just appointed him, Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0229par0496	...but today, in the 26th term, we know that a Republican People's Party MP exists, and where is he now? In Pennsylvania. Infiltrating political parties is already one of the most important tasks of terrorist organizations, one of their operations. All political parties -- the MCC, the CHP, the EC PARTY, the other political parties -- do their best not to let terrorist organizations infiltrate them. What I'm saying is that we, in your PAK PARTY, have this. We don't object to what you're saying, but while I'm just talking on the stand here, I curse the terrorist organization, I curse the PKK terrorist organization, I curse the ISIS terrorist organization, I curse those who are terrorizing for Islam.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0234par0499	So I cursed him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0229par0500	That's what we're talking about here. I curse the human massacre they did with a curtain on your face. I also curse that when I tell the PKK terror organization, someone suddenly stands up.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0235par0502	There's no such thing, you're not telling the truth! Look, as Deputy Director of the Group, you're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0229par0503	You don't see the back. The president saw it from here, I warned the president, the president said he didn't want to talk to you. He said, "Why are you standing up, why are you being so touchy?"
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0235par0506	You tried to clear it, you cleared it, you cleared it! You're not telling the truth, it really doesn't suit you. It really doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0236par0507	Please don't talk to each other, friends. Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0235par0509	Shame on you! It doesn't suit you. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0236par0510	Mr. Oluç, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0237par0511	Why are you still so touchy?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0235par0512	That's where I told you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0236par0513	Mr. Beştaş, I have promised Mr. Oluç. Please, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0238par0514	Yeah, curse the PKK!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0239par0515	Mr. President, the Minister of Justice and Development has made a statement on the stand. I want to answer.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0240par0516	Down with the PKK, down with the PKK lovers!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0241par0517	Put it in a slogan, put it in a slogan. I think you'd be relieved, too. Let me remind you of human values.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0242par0518	Curse the organizations that Mr. Engin and Mr. President have cursed. May the President be damned.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0243par0519	Here you go. On the stand, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0244par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, on this occasion, I'd like to address two issues. First of all, Mr. Elitaş, you've been doing your fair share, I'll tell you what you've been doing. You spoke here to justify the murder of 34 people in Roboski, and our friends object. You can't justify the massacre in Roboski, if you know that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0245par0525	Don't shout, don't scream.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0244par0526	What's inhuman is that you were able to justify the massacre there, and if you had come out and said that there was a mistake at that time. You won't say that the Chief of Staff, who made this decision at that time, the Chief of Staff, the Prime Minister, the President, whoever signed it, had to be punished for the murder of 34 people, it had to be judged; you didn't say that, you tried to justify it, we objected to the Roboski massacre, one. Two, now, look, you remember Mr. Elitaş, who announced the trade of the Turkish Republic of Turkey with ISIS? We traded with the light. You said, "It's on the floor of this assembly," and it's on the record. Yeah, it's on the record, remember, you said it. Three, you're in a lot of pain. Two and a half years after the Istanbul elections, we took a tactic as a political party, and we directed our votes wherever we wanted, and we succeeded. You've been talking about this for two and a half years. Yes, we're going to lose power. We said, and we lost it. Yeah, what's wrong with that? Why did it hurt so much?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0246par0530	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0244par0531	Now, look, I'm going to remind you of something, we're coming to the election, pull yourself together, get smart, we'll hurt you again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0247par0533	Are you threatening me? Come on, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0534	Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0249par0535	Here you go, Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0536	I didn't curse the AK PARTY, but that's how Mr. Elitaş took the promise, and he gave him an explanation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0249par0537	If you'd like, I'll give it to you in your place, in terms of 60, as in correction.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0538	Your appreciation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0249par0539	To be understood.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0540	To be understood, yes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0249par0541	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0542	Well, my place, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0249par0543	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0544	I'll tell you one thing: I also see the AK PARTY as a legitimate, legitimate party, so don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0250par0545	You have to.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0251par0546	What's he got to do with it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0547	I'm glad you're here. May Allah not reduce your bullet. I've caused trouble to the AK PARTI. I'm sure, and I hope you'll read it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0252par0548	Who said that?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0549	And I'm sure, and I hope you're not keeping this friend at the party yet, but I think this friend is still a member of your party.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0252par0550	Who is it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0551	I'll give you his name. He's still a member of your party. So what I've just said is that terrorists have infiltrated the AK PARTI. It's a document of my word, there's a lot of it, there's dozens of it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0253par0553	Your deputy went to a terrorist funeral; he's still a congressman.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0554	And is Shamil Tayyar right or Elitaş? I'm also wondering if there is still an AK PARTI inside and under his care due to the stock market.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0254par0556	Yes, it's in the name of...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0255par0557	Mr. President, I'd like to make this clear, if I may.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0248par0558	Shamil Tayyar is right.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0254par0559	I'll give you my word for a minute from your position, and we'll finish this matter, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0255par0560	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0254par0561	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0255par0562	I asked Mr. Altay, but he said I'll give it to you later.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0256par0563	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0255par0564	Our congressman friends are here who know about it. In 2014, a member of the Council of Göksun expressed the matter, and we exported it immediately.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0257par0565	Mr. President, it's been seven years.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0255par0566	I'd like to give this information to Mr. Altay. So I'd like to point out that you're still not an AK PARTY member.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0258par0567	Thank you, you've done well. You cleaned up a terrorist. It's beautiful.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0257par0568	It's been seven years.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0259par0569	Haven't you learned for seven years whether he's been expelled from the AK PARTY or not? So, were the rapists expelled?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0260par0570	Our former Gaziantep MP, Mr. Shamil Tayyar. There's no difference between what I said and what I said. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, if this is what I know, what I serve with, what I'm on the same commissions, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, I think he understands, but I'm saying it by politics. If he says it, I'm referring it to Mr. Kilicdaroglu's conscience as well. In this country today, I express to Mr. Kilicdaroglu how the stock exchange works, as if Shamil Tayyar had nothing to say to me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0261par0571	What did he do, Chairman?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0262par0572	Okay, thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] On behalf of the individuals, the final statement is from Mr. Abdulkadir Karaduman. Here you go, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0263par0581	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As we all know, the Arabic word for economics means economics. Economics includes meanings such as targeting truth, being reasonable, and the middle way. In fact, the explanation of our relationship with money in terms of middle and reasonableness carries important messages for all of us, because our relationship with money, our relationship with interest, and our relationship with people actually determines our relationship with people. It also determines our relationship not only with humans but also with ourselves and with God. The disproportionate relationship with money and power makes us forget about other people's rights and laws and then ourselves and finally God. It is not possible for a man who has forgotten himself and God to remember death and the Day of Reckoning. What is taken from such a person's heart will be compassion. Justice no doubt begins with mercy. It is not possible for a ruthless policy to bring justice. A man who has forgotten the day of reckoning can never be expected to show mercy. Dear lawmakers, over the years, we've all had our budget debates here together. Right now, we're all discussing the budget for 2022. As a matter of fact, budgets are an important programme that demonstrates how a country should be managed, the vision and performance of governance in a country. But when we look at the budget that we're talking about now, we all look at it together once again, and we see that the interest costs have increased, and the budget deficit has increased, and the tax burden on our people's back has increased, and there is no budget that will eventually take us out of the current economic crisis. So rest assured, I sincerely believe that your conscience never accepts this budget because conscience is the first witness to what one does and does not. And again, I truly believe that your conscience will never accept the explanations of this poverty in the country. I believe your conscience will never accept this conflict in foreign policy. I believe that your conscience never accepts the state of Islam. I believe that your conscience does not accept that the trust in justice in our country has been so weakened, and I still believe that our conscience is losing its identity to be certain, that its quality to be sure is getting weaker every day, and that our country is being dragged into a abyss at the point of moral and spiritual values, which I sincerely believe is unacceptable. Therefore, we are responsible for all of this, and we are responsible for what we do, and we are responsible for what we do not do, and we are responsible for what we do here, as we are responsible for what we do not speak. Partnerships can be done amongst two or many, but the one who holds back an injustice and a mistake is a partner in that injustice and wrong. Look, there's been a lot of lawmakers in this Veteran Assembly, a lot of ministers, a lot of prime ministers. Now, they've left a lot of what they've said and done in the House transcripts and moved on to the other world. As the talks were recorded here, as our fellow officials recorded the talks here, no doubt the divine pen was recorded, not only what was being done, but what was not being done, and why was being silenced in the same way. It's all over for them now, and everyone's gonna pay for themselves.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0264par0586	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0265par0587	They'll record you with CHP.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0263par0588	We must remember that we will all die together at the end of this story, as we answer to the people, and that the day the ant gets his due from Solomon, we will all pay for it. Today, it is, of course, possible to manipulate, manipulate, and manipulate the masses at times. Today, it is of course possible to follow the path of deception with the TÜİK. However, there is no way that we can deceive the divine court. Power, dignity, position and position will be of no use there. Lo! the truth is that ye should not incline toward the wrong-doers, nor incline toward the wrong-doers, lest the Fire touch you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, despite everything -- I'm underlining it -- it's up to all of us to make our country habitable after all. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, in the name of...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0266par0593	Yes, you're the last speaker of the 2022 budget, say hello. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0263par0595	Therefore, it is in all of us to make our country habitable today. Co-operation with the United States does not bring peace to our nation, nor does normalisation with Israel bring peace to this nation, nor does doing anything but European Union homework bring peace to this nation. This sense of economics, based on years of interest, consumption, unfair gain, will bring nothing but misery to our nation. No understanding, which does not prioritize morality and spirituality, which does not say that the state is religious justice, will bring nothing but unrest to our country, I assure you. Finally, our most precious legacy from this world will be nothing more than to be remembered for no. I swear by the condemning voice of conscience, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0266par0598	The request for a statement has been met on behalf of the individuals. Now we're going to do a ten-minute QA. Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0267par0601	Thank you, Mr. President. Is there any study of the rights of self-esteem under the protection of our guards, who have been employed by Village Law 442 since 1924? Do we think that the salary taken by our rangers, who have an average eight - population family, is sufficient to provide for the needs of our rangers? Will there be another study on the fact that our rangers who risk death for their country's sake must be indexed to the market and neighborhood watch's salary while their salary is being held for minimum wage talks? Will there be a study of our rangers' pension rights? Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems in our developing world is the need for energy. Today, one of the most important environmental problems in the world is global warming caused by the rise of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and greenhouse effect. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When national and domestic projects become important, are solar energy panels required to be installed, especially in institutional, private buildings and houses in transformation? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0268par0607	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0269par0608	Thank you, Mr. President. When will this law-ordered execution be waived from its work, sentenced to a death sentence that has been immunized and has no legal response? And even though there are cases that have been won on this subject, there is a clear crime against workers who have not been returned to work, some of them are peace academics. Again, the Ministry of National Education does not allow the development of an application such as the Internet and the computer, the tablet, to provide free applications for teachers and students, making education easier for teachers and students, as well. Is the Ministry of National Education considering such an application? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0270par0612	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0271par0613	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, if you have completed the economy of Afghanistan, the agriculture of Ukraine, the needs of 9 million Syrians, the debt of Somalia, the opening of factories to Serbia, the $5 billion aid to Iraq, can you now care for the needs and problems of the people of Turkey? For example, how are you going to drop the exchange rate? For example, how do you increase the power of the officer, the pensioner, the worker, the tradesman? For example, we're wondering how you're going to get our citizens out of this line, waiting hours on a bread line to get a dollar off? While we're here, we're waiting for your answer.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0270par0615	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0272par0616	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, please answer the questions, the college graduates are waiting for answers. Will you or will you not appoint health management graduates? If the economy's good, why can't you just appoint it? For example, the manual was published yesterday, no health management graduates. For example, our teacher friends are looking for me, our pre-school teacher friends are calling us, our disabled teachers are looking for our friends; there are 140,000 teachers short, so if the economy is good, why can't you appoint me? If the economy's bad, go ahead and explain. Mr. Secretary, we're waiting for answers to these questions, are you going to appoint college graduates or not? We expect an answer from you, I'll ask until morning, I'll ask until morning. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0273par0620	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0274par0621	Mr. President, nutrition and dairy production are as essential to human health as economic activity is to human health. The majority continue to work in traditional ways as animals. Petism, especially in rural areas, is very important to my city of Kahramanmarash, as it is for all provinces. In the village, the heromarash has a goat. Traditional animalism is very important, and in the village of livestock, the meres should be protected, where they shouldn't be built, they shouldn't be rented to companies, they should be opened to animals in areas of forest headquarters. It's very important in vet medicine in terms of livestock. The Department of Agriculture should increase the vet's staff. Animal health is very important for the future of animalism. Veterinarianism is also very important for human health, and many diseases pass from animals to humans. Therefore, vets should be considered medical personnel, as we, the National Movement Party, have to be included in the arrangement of vets for medical personnel...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0273par0624	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0275par0625	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the number of taxes collected from minimum wage in Turkey? Will a study be conducted to reduce the indirect tax share in order to ensure justice in the tax? What are the kinds of taxes that taxpayers benefit the most from using tax forgiveness? What are the tax benefits brought to business and low-income enterprises due to the turnover of Covid-19? The loss of value in exchange for the foreign currency is causing the worker to become poorer every day, and the worker to become poorer every day. The rising rain on basic food products has brought the public to the point of rebellion by making them say, "Zam, persecution, torture, the AKP." Is there a policy that your Ministry developed on macro and microscales to prevent the loss of Turkish lira in exchange for currency? If so, what are its contents? Four years ago, you said you wanted to go back to Mars, and you're that desperate?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0276par0628	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0277par0629	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, may the minimum wage announced by our President be blessed. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We said, "We are not going to crush the Asian wage with inflation." We haven't crushed it in 19 years, and we're not going to crush it now. (EA/DG) Not above inflation, not far above, but far above it, which is a clear 50 per cent increase, our president announced the minimum wage. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The minimum wage will be fully applied in 2022, as the President stated. Especially at the beginning of the year, Mr. President has announced that he has also made a decision to work on the removal of income tax and stamp tax from minimum wage. This is really a historical increase. The minimum wage has been clearly increased by 50%.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0278par0634	It's not 50% based on inflation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0277par0635	Good luck with that. In addition, we would like to reiterate that we have decided to make an exception to the stamp tax and income tax.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0278par0636	Mr. President, it explains the minimum wage, but we want answers to the questions, and we need to give him time, and we're asking questions.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0279par0637	I see you're uncomfortable with the explanation. You say it every day: minimum wage, minimum wage...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0278par0638	Are we saying this for nothing?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0279par0639	You're not listening.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0280par0640	Now, significant improvements have been made in recent years regarding the financial rights of security guards. In December 2002, security guards' wages, which were $236, increased by 1.097 per cent, to $2.826 in September 2021. Inflation growth between the same periods occurred at 549 per cent. In addition, in 2017, all social security premiums for security guards began to be met by the state. The amendment to Village Law 442 in 2021 and the payment paid under the clause referred to to to the security guards in Article 375 and the additional compensation amount paid under the provisions of Article 375 have been arranged to be paid as well as the net minimum wage for January of the year, which has been imposed on him only if he is granted a minimum living reduction, in case the difference is also paid as compensation. Between 2003-2021, a total of 713,625 teachers were appointed, which corresponds to 73 per cent of the current population. Around 20,000 teachers an average year were appointed during this period. In the next period, 15,000 teachers will be appointed in January 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0281par0642	15 grand isn't enough, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0280par0643	Our ministry has previously mobilized every means not to victimize our teachers, under budget opportunities, and this year, by pushing their resources and resources to a higher level, it will assess the appointment of teachers based on the possibility of a maximum staff. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A total of 230 million fines were fined between 1/1/2021 and 8/12/2021. I do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0282par0647	Okay. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Members of parliament, the Articles of the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 have been adopted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote will be held tomorrow's merger after the final talks. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss the articles of the 2020 Central Management Computation Act, respectively, and vote. After I have re-read the 1st article of the 2020 Central Management Computation Act, I will submit it to your votes. MADDE 1- (1) Adds 21/12/2019 to the Central Management Budget Act 2020, dated 10/12/2003 and Law on Public Financial Management and Control 5018; 1.082.021.197,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 82,423,174,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 7,623,700,000 to regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler. The grant is granted. (2) The central administration of 2020, which has been added over the year by the power vested in by the Laws, is added to Law 5018, as shown in the final account receipts of the central administration of 2020; A) (I) The budget costs of public administrations under the general budget are 1,183,163,137,365,95 Turkish liras, B) (II) The budget costs of private budgetary administrations are 120,169,070,771,45 Turkish liras, C) (III) The budget costs of regulator and auditory institutions on the table were 6,864,039,042.62 Turkish liras. (3) The central management net budget cost of 2020 is 1,203,737,135,307,17 Turkish Lira. I submit the 1st article to your votes, along with the previously accepted ruler: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. Now, the Deputy Directors of the Group have demands, and I will meet them, those who desire them, those who demand them. Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0283par0669	Thank you, Mr. President. On November 26th, Mr. President asked that the minimum wage be at least $4,000, and the income and stamp tax be lifted. When I said that, the dollar was $12.1, and now the dollar is around $15.60.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0284par0671	You raised it, you!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0283par0672	According to this, we expected the minimum wage to be over 5,000 liras, at least that expected it. The hunger limit of a family of four is $3.194, and the poverty limit is 10,396. With this minimum wage, there has been an extraordinary determination just above the hunger limit and below the poverty line, not a minimum wage to meet that expectation. In addition, the issue must be addressed from Turkey's general health insurance priimity point. In Turkey, the state pays the general health insurance premium for 7 million, 236,000 people, with the minimum salary less than one-third of the income per person's income. I mean, I think it's necessary for the government to think about how hunger, poverty, poverty, this minimum wage would be determined in a country with less than a third of the minimum wage, where there are about 7.5 million people making less than a third of the minimum wage. Also, since the minimum wage income and stamp tax have been lifted, another revenue pencil has been eliminated in the budget of 2022. I'll do the evaluation at closing. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0285par0674	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0286par0675	Thank you, Mr. President. The minimum wage statement has just been issued, and according to the initial information, the net is set to be $4,250 Turkish lira. Of course, this will have to add a little bit more to that, depending on whether the minimum wage is married with children or not. And another happy thing is that as the National Movement Party, we have a 50 percent increase in our party programme, as well as in our proposals and proposals, as well as the fact that there are no income tax and stamp taxes involved -- that's one of the best aspects of this year's minimum wage -- and we see that there has been an increase of about 50 percent compared to the previous minimum wage. Of course, we'll be doing much more specific, detailed and comprehensive evaluations of the National Movement Party Group in a moment. First of all, Turkey's prospects for the current economic conditions have been relatively high for several months, both in the government agenda and in the business world, in the labour sector and in the employer sector. I wish this minimum wage, under the conditions of our country, to our country, to our business world, and to our minimum-paying citizens; I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0287par0680	Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0288par0681	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, a reminder first: on January 1, 2021, at the beginning of this year, it was $1.7.37 Turkish lira, and the minimum wage was $383. Today, minimum wage has been raised to $4,250 Turkish liras, and the dollar is fluctuating at 15.50, so minimum wage has dropped to $274. What does that mean? From the beginning of the year to today, there's been a $109 loss in minimum wage. So when we convert this to Turkish lira today, there's a $1,700 Turkish loss of rights, a loss of purchasing power, that's obvious to our citizens who work for minimum wage. So, according to today's data, the minimum wage would have to be around 5,900 liras in order to maintain the rate at least in the beginning of the year, so $4,250 Turkish lira is not enough. Second: The fact that minimum wage is being removed from income tax and stamp tax showed how accurate the proposals of the People's Democratic Party are both of the other opposition parties and of the Revolutionary Workers' Unions and other trade unions. While you were rejecting our motions in Plan and Budget, he also realized what a mistake he made with the Justice and Development Party Group and the MHP Group. And on April 2nd, we offered you a law on this, and you ignored it. And now you realize how wrong that was. Third: After making this increase to minimum wage, the government has actually agreed that true inflation is 50%, so let's get this straight. The last thing I want to say is very important. Because of this increase in minimum wage, employers will start layoffs. This must be stopped. Workers' layoffs must be prevented. We warn power on this issue, but we also warn employers. We say don't try to lay off anyone just because the minimum wage has been raised. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0289par0687	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0290par0688	Thank you, Mr. President. The minimum wage has been announced by our President's discretion, as Mr. Secretary has just stated. I swear, Mr. Secretary, you've crushed the minimum wager to inflation, you haven't crushed him; I don't know about him, but I know two things: he's a minimum wage cold, he closes his combo at 10:00 a.m. Two: the minimum wage is now looking for cheap stale bread in the ovens. Last year, these days, in the budget, you needed the people to eat dry bread. I told you. If bread is eaten, it is not hungry. By dry bread, I mean incoherence. Now people are looking to buy stale bread cheap in the ovens. If that number were explained in October, I would thank you, Mr. Secretary, but at the point where we came in today, at the point where the dollar is 15.5, it means that this year -- at the beginning of the year -- this year, at the beginning of the 2021 -- was getting a minimum wage of $385, and this is what it was worth. Now, the minimum wage should be $5,955, if it doesn't get crushed. If you will not oppress, if it is right, if it is law, if it is justice, if it is mercy, it must be 5,955. Or if it's 4,250, it should be able to go back to the dollar level of $9. When the dollar is at this level, the minimum wage price on the dollar is 30 percent melted. We gave him a 50% raise in return for TL. He says, dear Minister, but at least 30 per cent of the dollar has been lost. Mr. Saruhan calculated $109, I'm $111; he's now in debt to the worker, minimum wage, to this country, for every minimum wage. When we look at it like this, I'm sorry to say, it's not possible for us to be happy. The facts are clear, with a 100 percent increase in bread as of January alone, raising the minimum wage by 50 per cent on a TL basis means stealing one of the two breads on the nation's table. It is not possible for us to accept it, to approve it, to view it as reasonable and appropriate. May Allah help the poor, the needy, the orphan, and the needy in this winter's winter. God help me, I can't think, I can't imagine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't know how people get by with these numbers, how they eat, how they eat, how they eat, how they get warm. Appreciation belongs to the great nation and to the minimum wage. Let's just say it's for the best.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0291par0694	Thank you. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0292par0696	Thank you, Mr. President. Our President shared a minimum wage with a citizen who had not yet been paid, along with representatives of the employer's side and the worker's side, as a result of talks that had just been held by the Asgarial Price Appropriations Commission for about 20 days. The net minimum wage will be calculated at $4,250. He also expressed something very important - a statement about removing the allowance from the minimum wage and the income tax on the minimum wage. Now, our Treasury and Finance Minister is here, and this is immediately legalized, and I think the law is required, because the border that starts at 15 percent of the tax slices needs to be made with a legal arrangement. I also believe that the fees received from the affidavits must be made legal. I believe our Minister is now giving our friends instructions on the removal of minimum wage taxes and fees. And I'm guessing that both the improvement of our workers and the taking of about $450 of the cargo on the employer -- which we were contributing to earlier -- would mean that the minimum wage would be reduced to a little bit more gross. You know, from the years before, we made a legal arrangement so the minimum wage wouldn't be affected by the tax slices, and we did it with the support of all our political party members, because in September or October, it was entering 20 percent of the tax language. Now, we need to make an arrangement for the total removal of taxes on minimum wage. Next week, hopefully, we'll be able to bring this arrangement to life and allow the public to relax together. Our friends during the opposition may be right, they can express it, but inflation isn't calculated by dollars, you know, inflation, prices appear as a reflection of the overall level. The increase in exchange prices, unfortunately, has an impact on inflation. It's done in size, it's done. Currently, the highest inflation average in wholesale items in 2021 is 42 per cent; today, when Mr. President announced -- inflation, over wholesale prices -- there is a 50 per cent increase. Thank you. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit03spe0293par0701	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0293par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the discussions of the 2020 Central Management Competitive Accounting Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The commission is in place. MADDE 2- (1) 2020 Central Management Budget Law and Law 5018 added; A) (I) is the income of 941,944,001.000 Turkish liras in the general budget. B) (II) private budgetary administrations have an income of 12,464,193,000 Turkish liras, totalling 83,626,91,000 Turkish liras, including 71,162,721.000 Turkish Liras, and a total of 83,626,914,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 7,623,700.000 Turkish liras, totaling 7.488,375,000 Turkish liras in the editors and auditors' incomes on the table, 135,325,000 Turkish liras, is estimated to be. (2) The central administration of 2020, as shown in the final income sheets, is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 1,005,017,930,492.97 Turkish lira, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a income of 21,536,369,624,13 Turkish liras, a total of 121,506,646,157,62 Turkish liras, 99,970,274,533,49 Turkish liras as Treasury aid, and a total of 121,506,157,62 Turkish liras. C) (III) The income of regulator and auditory institutions in the ruler is 7,762,401,83,83 Turkish liras, 126,243,870 Turkish liras, totaling 7,888,645,702,83 Turkish liras, with the assistance of Treasury, 126,243,870 Turkish liras. It's done as a matter of fact. (3) Central management net budget revenue in 2020 is 1,028,445,526,973,18 Turkish Lira. Kayseri MP Dursun Atash has requested a statement on behalf of the Good Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0294par0025	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party Group on Article 2 of the 2020 Central Management Computation Law Proposal. I salute the great Turkish nation and the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the budget for lack and corruption in 2022 is the 20th budget of the AKP administration, the 4th budget of the presidency's government system. Every budget prepared by the single man's regime has deepened the economic crisis in the country, increased budget deficits year by year, increased the poverty of the citizen day by day, but added wealth to the wealth of the court's people. When this freak brings in the government system, the economy will rise. Those who deceive the nation now declare it a terrorist who says, "I can't get by." A citizen who waits hours to buy cheap bread on the bread line, forced to collect Sunday scraps, is considered the greatest threat to national security when he criticises the palace's waste and luxury. Since there is no hope for the future, seven of every 10 youths want to live in another country because their dreams have been stolen, and young people who want to leave the country are declared traitors by the AKP. In this country, the dollar will be 10 liras. People are being tried today, and the judge is not able to stand trial because of his shame; but those who say, "$10 will have been declared to be a pawn of external powers." Precious lawmakers, food prices in AKP rule have increased, fuel prices have increased, electricity, natural gas prices have increased, even price of bread and water has increased, so everything has increased, but most of all, the number of terrorists has increased. All those who do not support their ruling and partner in the country are marked as terrorists; the tradeskeepers, the merchants, the terrorists, the terrorists, the kebabists, terrorist, the chain markets, the terrorists who invest in the dollars, the Boğaziçi University students who invest in the parks, the students who lie in the parks are terrorists, the students who seek their homes, the students who are looking for terrorists, the students who are looking for their homes, the students who say, "Where is the terrorist, the $128 billion?" The terrorists, the people who say, "Where is the cost of life." Those who say, "The terrorist, the journalists in prison, the terrorist, the protestors, the baruut honors." Basically, everyone's a terrorist in our beautiful hometown except for the allies. Dear lawmakers, one of the most growing things in the country of those who have been declared terrorists for seeking rights is the so-called reputation. Of course, a reputation that will make Germany jealous of our country, whose national income per capita is 41,000 euros, which is $676,500 in Turkish lira, which is only $77,000 per person's income, and the inflation of Israel, which is 0.3 per cent, is jealous of our country over 50 per cent of the country, jealous of the country, which can only contribute 1.7 per cent of its external domestic property to aid the citizens of the pandemide. How could they not be jealous? Which one has a 1.150-bedroom palace, three-five-paying advisors, gold-rich rooms, summer palaces, the world's most state-owned contractors, 3 billion-budget palaces, dozens of planes, hundreds of security vehicles that are going to show off in the streets of New York? According to the AKP, there is no savings from dignity; savings comes from workers, citizens, poor people, poor people. For example, a citizen has to save by reducing a portion, but in the palace, mango is dried for dignity, dragon fruit smoothies are drunk. For example, even though young people can't find a home, it takes $291 million to build a New York Turkish house for $4.3 billion. That kind of reputation is ruined. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has completely cut ties with the nation. On the one hand, millions of people declared terrorists in their own state in poverty, unemployment, poverty, poverty, and the palace, which counts for dignity, dignity, and lives in waste and luxury. Mr. Erdogan of the AKP has recently read the 155th verse of the Bakara Surah at the end of 20 years, and in the Qur'an, our Lord, we will try to reduce you with a little fear and hunger, with goods, lives, and goods. Give glad tidings to those who are patient. He has enjoined it. Isn't that nice? AKP power is a joke, but it's a joke that doesn't make people laugh and cry. O AKP, stay in power alone for twenty years; sink the economy with your ineptness, corruption, and the rants you distribute to your followers; then find a sign, and tell them that hunger, poverty, and God's test. Do you make fun of people, or do you make fun of them? Why is it that there is a trial for you, and for the poor, and for their wealth, and for their lives, and for their crops, and for you, and for those who dwell in palaces, and for your contractors, and for your relatives, and for your brethren? We went out and wrote the book of ekonomi. You're going to say, you're not looking, you're going to look at it, you're going to say things are going to get worse. You're going to say, "We're getting better, so you're going to be poor." You're going to say, "Well, that's not the last Chinese model." It's not a Chinese model, it's a genie model. Yesterday, though, they changed his name to the Turkish model. If that's like a Turkish-type presidential model, then, wow. Is this country your trial board? What kind of economic model is this, what excuse is that? At the end of your 20 years of power, you've taken the country back to the year 2002, when you've been defaming it at every opportunity. But don't worry, you'll go, we'll come; then we'll wipe out corruption and poverty. You will also be made history, and the youths of this time will tell their children that we used to wake up every morning with the shocks of courtship. A citizen who had spent his youth in the AKP will say to his child, "Take out your phone." Look, we used to pay taxes on this phone as much as it cost. The government would go and erase the tax debt of millions of dollars of corporate allies. A person who lived during the AKP era will tell his grandson that in time, there was a great epidemic in the world; we couldn't work, our businesses closed. All the states in the world gave free aid to their citizens, set aside millions of dollars in budgets, and our government gave loans to three or five people and took it back with interest. History will write you down, O AKP! A man who worked for minimum wage during the AKP period will tell a young man years later: "I used to work for a bag of toilet paper for a full day and a half. The people would stand in front of the bread shops for miles. When we were one of those self-sufficient countries to be educated in schools, teachers who would say, "There was a deep economic crisis in our country in the early 2000s, we were unable to produce anything. Now, don't look at the state-of-the-art grain warehouse; then we were importing wheat, hay, beans. They will say, "There was no embargo, there was no war." They will say, "There was famine for the poor, the poor, the poor, the citizens, but the rulers were living in 1,150-room palaces." They will say, "Indeed, they lived in 1,150-room palaces." In village coffees, in houses, in workplaces, it was the most unsuccessful government in Turkish history. The people who voted for the AKP will deny that they voted, and there will be no mercy, no good word from their mouths. We're still paying off the debts they left behind. Our grandchildren will say. Dear MPs, the point where AKP's national national nation is today is the only tomato. To defend the budget of this poverty, let them go up here and buy one tomato. There is no conscience in the budget of those who address the citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0295par0035	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0294par0036	There's nothing for a citizen in the budget of those who make fancy sentences here to defend the budget of this corruption. It says that the budget of absence and corruption, or the only tomato budget, will be the last budget of the AKP. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0295par0038	Ankara MP Nevin Taşlıçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rocky.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0296par0041	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group over Article 2 of the 2020 Central Management Account Budget Law Proposal. I salute the nation of St. Turk and the Grand Assembly. It's the name of a place where our human emotions are filed, where we can take refuge in an age of moral concepts, where we can stay fresh. We can reach the right one, the right one, the beautiful one, so we can reach the virtue that will lead us by heart, by heart, by heart, and at the end of the day voluntarily. First of all, you have to volunteer for friendship; you have to be friends with air, water, land; you have to be friends with reason; you have to be friends with morality; and you have to be friends with the righteous of the creatures. As members of a culture built on love, we must say that man is not a wolf, but a friend of man. The statement of that we shall not give up on the human being is in the heart. You know, the Master Neþet says: "The heart goes to the heart, the secret way is hidden. "The selfishness that surrounds us, the involuntaryness that is in the hearts of the Turkish nation. The concept, which we now call "subject" in modern times, has now become more of a description of things than emotions. Objects are also valuable, of course, but we're familiar with the subject human. To see our values become objects that are bought and sold, the heart extinguishes our eyes. To think, to think, to ponder, to think about human relationships, to put ourselves in our place, to see all of this as a responsibility for our peace of mind. It is the devil's work of all sorts of feelings that suggest not to think. You must understand life in a simple, human manner. Love, respect, sincerity; if we look at life with these three virtues, then we'll see a lot of things in the eyes of the heart, and we'll understand that looking at them is not the same depth of meaning. Tolerance is to act contrary to the physique in a belief that it's like night to cover flaws, to drown in the shallows. We can only breathe in the depth of Turkish wisdom. Dear lawmakers, the developing technology, the changing world, has brought with it some problems as a result of globalized cultural impacts. As technology gains speed at its point of development and the rise in internet use, it can push us out of the lands we've set foot on culturally, just as it has put the world in our hands. Our world has become a global village, and its culture rate has increased. In particular, our children and young people are more often interacting with foreign cultures through the digital world, and are in danger of getting away from our ancient culture in this sense. I say danger, because it's our culture that makes us who we are. Culture is the sum total of our lives; cities are built with culture; people are made with culture; people are made with culture; communities are made with culture; our eating habits, our need for shelter, our choice for clothing are shaped in the cultural apartment where we belong. It's our culture that makes us different from the others. However, in our time, the effect of globalization has been a constant in almost everything. Housing is also a part of culture, and it is one of the areas where our aesthetics are displayed. In Turkish steppe culture, the need for shelter was met by its tent, and our ancestors described it as a small universe. The canopy of the tent symbolised the sky, the space in the middle of the dome, the path to the North Star, and the pole in the middle of the pasture, as well as the pole connecting the earth and the sky. Even today, it is the custom not to step on the threshold in modern buildings. In Turkish mythology, it is believed that on the threshold of the tent, souls are seated that protect people from evil. It's written in our cultural code, and we can only stand by with a hearty view of many such teachings. As we try to perceive our environment in the depth of our culture, many windows will open, and our perspective will change. When we look at the process of urbanization in this direction, we will see that we have not only considered the need for housing as a zoning, but much more than that, urbanization as a cultural location design. At this point, we see that we have no more aesthetic anxiety, especially in the architectural sense. Cities grow and thrive like humans. In order for growth and development to progress in a healthy way, first of all, it must be planned according to the cultural nature of society. It is also important to plan on increasing population, housing, and transportation. While culturally speaking, the concept of formula is now at a point of loss, the squares are still needed. Respected MPs, after the declaration of the republic, the importance of places in Anatolia has become more evident, the perception of urbanization is integrated with nationalization, the idea of the more modern design of locations has been raised. In this sense, city planning began with Ankara. Following Ankara's declaration of capital, the design of a capital worthy of the Republic of Turkey was quickly put on the agenda. Ankara's first zoning plan was made in 1924, and planning was often intended to promote the squares. Many European cities today are also called squares. It is our duty to move the vision of the capital to 2023, which was established in 1923 along with the declaration of the republic. Ankara, the future vision of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the consciousness of the Turkish nation. It is our wish to act on that understanding, to see our capital among the number-one cities of the world. It is a historical responsibility to eliminate current problems that will darken Ankara's capital horizon, especially traffic problems. At the same time, it is equally important to give Ankara the identity of a cultural capital. We support and await further steps in this matter. Dear MPs, we who carry the virtue of being a nation, the power to be a state, from history to today, we carry our future argument on these two ideas. As members of a understanding that combines the concept of Turkish-cihan domination with the belief of blessing, our goal is certainly high. It is our duty to keep a strong and active Turkish Republic of Turkey in its territory. The only way to accomplish this task is by watering the seeds out of the Turkish nation's heart climate with consciousness, carefully rearing them and raising them with a purpose. Our experience from the past, the wisdom from our culture, and the love we cherish in our hearts, is the host of this path. We, who have a great language, a great history, but a great geography, have a responsibility to protect and keep these values united. Our greatest legacy to our children is this will of unity and an interpreter to our hearts: The verses of the late Niyazi Yıldırım Gençosmanoglu: our grandfather is one, our grandchildren/ Yesterday, we are tomorrow/ Glory, we are deep/ Yunus Emre, Haci Bektas/ Alemi, Sunni, Redhead! As I end my remarks, I wish the central management budget of 2022 to be good; I want to thank all those who have worked hard and contributed to the budget's preparation, coming to the General Assembly, meeting. I salute the great Turkish nation and the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0297par0052	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Şevin Coshkun. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0298par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly, all the political prisoners, prisoners, and thousands of our friends who have to go to exile. Dear lawmakers, the 10 December 17th of December we are in is Human Rights Week, but there are new rights violations in the country every day; one of the places where right violations are seen and experienced in the most brutal manner is prisons. In prisons converted by the government to torture and death centers, sick prisoners and prisoners are left to die. On December 14th, Abdülrezak Shuyur, who had been in prison for 28 years and had been prevented from treatment, died. Less than 24 hours later, we received news of the death of another prisoner, Halil Sun. You're responsible for these deaths. We ask you, how many more people do you expect to die? Look, another patient is under arrest Aysel Tuğluk. Despite her severe illness and medical reports, her release has been blocked and her right of life has been violated. Mehmet Emin Özkan, 83-year-old critical patient, has been in prison for 26 years and his right of life has been blocked. In addition to the prisoners and the prisoners who are sick, their executions should be removed at once, as well as obstacles to the evacuation of the burned prisoners. Dear lawmakers, in 2014 the plan to bring down the national security board has been launched. This plan is still in effect to design politics and society. As a result of the crash plan, all social groups demanding rights, especially Kurds, Alevis, young and women, face heavy violence, pressure policy. Political genocide operations against HDP (HDP) are ongoing. Our party and its executives are targeted every day by power. A major media embargo is being implemented against HDP, and our democratic political rights are being blocked at every opportunity. The 15th of July, which is a blessing for power, is actually under way. It is routine for our party and for social opposition, the ban on activities and activities imposed every 15 days by governorship in many cities, including my constituency, Mush, Hakari, Van and Mardin. Many arbitrary bans, obstructions, unlawful detention, law enforcement violence, which we cannot rank here due to the lack of time, appear every day in many parts of Turkey. Of course, we will not stand by, and we will cry out to you every day about your persecution and your unlawfulness. Dear lawmakers, if you think you can control the media to prevent public freedom of information, silence democratic politics, you're wrong; you won't turn down the truth. See, in the face of this dark picture that Turkey is living in, especially the way the media behaves, it's a black mark on history. You are as guilty to HDP, different identity and beliefs, social opposition, women, and women who fight ecology as you are to your own administration, who organise and target the language of hate every day by means of publication. If we were to sort out what your bottomless media is doing, the hours and the days are not enough. The conflict at the HDP building of your media about the killer, which slaughtered our friend Deniz Poyraz by entering our party building in İzmir, is a concrete example of your power media being at the bottom of the pit. For Garibe Gezer, who died in prison last week suspiciously, another terrorist who was fed at the prison died. A piece of paper that had become weak enough to throw his title away and we can't call it a newspaper is a reflection of the mentality of your power. Dear lawmakers are not only removing the right to live by their policies; they are taking away the freedom of expression from the basic constitutional rights of citizens and the right to accurate information. Your media conducts a cover-up of the crisis created by your power by manipulating society, not publishing. For a long time, the hunger of a television channel, whose name is known to everyone, has extended its life span in order to cover up the economic collapse. Minimize your ports that have been moved to the titles. Take them with a gram instead of Kilo. The words point to the point of decay. Your telecommunications presidency, such as the chairman of Manipulation, and your network of media, are working day and night to cloud the truth. There is no other example of a country where lies is subsidized by power support. Sources transferred from the Press Agency to the media are the subvanse budget for lies. It was used to subsidize government lies of $750 million, which are not clear whether or not the smitheren group received from the Agriculture Bank and paid it back. The TRT, which, by the constitution, has to broadcast publicly, has been transformed into the sound of your power, your palace television. The budget of this governing organization is again taxed by the public, day and night. Trying to pump lies into the public with the public's money is another dimension of shamelessness and insolence. Of course, we also know that there are journalists and opposition media groups who defend the truth against all of this, who pursue the truth. Yes, there is a press censorship in the country that has not been searched for centuries; it does not end in counting the forbidden language, ideas, newspapers, books, and publications. For example, the New Life newspaper is not being taken to prisons. Journalists who have been targeted by the government are on trial for their news activities. A popular song, color, photo, or comedy sharing of a pro-government series is considered a cause for judgment. Journalist Nedim Türfent and Abdulkatir Turay have been in prison for five years on grounds of their report. On December 12, Ankara, we can't find a place where students want to do it. Three journalists who follow news in the protest have been taken into custody and have been blocked from journalism activities. Dear lawmakers have lost 3,436 journalists in the past four and a half years. In 2020, 48 journalists spent at least one day in custody. According to Tigris Fırat Journalists Association, 57 journalists and press workers are now in prison. Jin News Women's News Agency has been blocked 40 times so far. So far, newspapers and magazines have been closed under more than 60 different names known only to Özgür Gündem daily. However, the free press moves on without bowing down. No matter what you do, you won't shut up the free press, you won't shut up. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is ranked 154°th among 180 countries in the Press Freedom Index of the 2021 Year of Journalists Without Borders. It also reports that 90 per cent of the media in Turkey is under the control of business people close to the government. Even this painting itself is embarrassing from the angle of your power. Yes, women are ignored in every part of the country, as well as in the media area, being ignored and subjected to inequality. According to the report of the Women's Coalition in journalism, 94 women were legally harassed over interviews in 2021, 82 women journalists were attacked in the line of duty, 18 women journalists were taken into custody. Dear lawmakers, the fourth power of the press is an important means of control over political power, while today the government has been transformed into a tool for intimidation and manipulation of society, a psychological tool. The press, however, is the mirror of a country's democratic indicator. It must not be forgotten that in a country where the press is not free, neither society nor politics will be free. Dear lawmakers, this budget is a budget reserved for court, war, side by side. We find that the budget does not include the poor, the workers, the disabled, the students, and the women. Why? Because our women's council of poverty met working women in 18 provinces and observed poverty in its place. Süryani women were visited in Midyat, women of agriculture in Kızıltepe, women of tobacco in Adıyaman Bulam, women of tobacco workers in Ankara Bala, farm workers in the fields of onions, beets and potatoes. The situation is not as bright as power says here, but people are struggling to survive in poverty.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0299par0070	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0298par0071	I'm just going to share a few examples. Seasonal agricultural workers are not limited to going to a city, they work more as traveling farm workers; they have to change almost a few cities from Iconium to Amasya, Adana to Bursa. Seasonal agricultural workers work in the field between 12 and 65 hours a day, between 12 and 14 hours a day, charging between 60 and 110 dollars a day. Seasonal agricultural workers live in tent cities, can't reach health care, can't continue their studies. And there are women workers who are victims of war. These refugee women who have come to Turkey from Afrin, Kobani, Rakka, and war-related habitats are subjected to more labour exploitation. Even these examples show that women's unemployment is so dire that women who are left without work are subjected to hard work conditions to get by. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0299par0074	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Congressman Abdulatif Sener. Here you go, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0300par0077	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 2 of the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. The amount and details of budget revenues are provided according to Article 2 of the final account text in 2020; here, the decision will be made. According to this, budget revenues in 2020 amounted to 1 trillion 28 billion Turkish liras. According to this, the budget deficit is 175 billion and other economic indicators do not display a positive picture. The lowest national income in recent years has emerged, with a national income of $717 billion, and national income per person is around $8,500. This is a multi-million dollar income per person who emerged in 2020, after 18 years of government power, in fact, if a serious calculation is made, the individual in 1998 is less than the national income. The change in computation in 2016 was not properly reflected between 1998 and 2002, even slightly reduced. So the previous period, the national income in the previous period of power, has been reduced to the effect of national income per person. Beyond that, if we bring the dollar system back with an inflation rate, the annual income of 2000 per person displays even less than the national income of 1998. In fact, this problem is not only the problem of 2020; the current government has also corrupted the economy by changing the system with the wrong policies it follows, with the destruction it opens in public administration. In the last five years, all indicators in the economy have been corrupted, but beyond that, the crisis that exploded in August 2018 has not been lifted, and this period of crisis has been going on for three and a half years. That's why we call it an economic crisis, not an economic crisis, and it's still a period of depression, and there's no telling when it's going to go away. But some economic dissertations and practices the government has raised over the past few months have shown that these economic woes will continue to destroy, bore, and destroy people for a longer period of time. This corrupt economic order, first of all, has blown inflation, increased exchange rate. And increasing inflation has reduced the lifestyle of 84 million people living in this country, the standard of life. Look, there's a rain of raises all over the country, prices are going up fast, and even inflation at a total price of 55 per cent, according to TÜİKί's figures. We're looking at the most consumed goods, products, sunflower oil, eggs, meat, pants, shirt, toilet paper, cheese, milk, pads, et cetera. Increases in prices have increased to a terrible level. Flour prices, LPG, chickpeas, bleach, tube gas, again, are doubled. Prices change constantly, not yearly, but monthly, even daily. When we looked at it -- I did an account the other day -- the gasoline went from $7.76 in 60 days to $10.32, and the diesel went from the price of 7.50 euros 60 days ago to 10.30 euros. But we're getting news that the price of gasoline is up and up with a 56-cent increase today, and it's not possible for the citizens to reach the prices. Not just in some products, but in some products that the citizen uses the most, but in all products there are constant daily, monthly price hikes. More than 400 of the products found in the basket of TÜİKί are subject to continuous price hikes. It is, of course, possible to say that inflation is not unique to some products, that price increases are general, that the overall level of prices is very widespread, and that the citizen is miserable under this increase. Not just consumers, but producers also suffer a great deal from these price hikes because, look, if six months ago, a farmer's liter of mazotin is going to exceed $10, it's going to be 11 lira. None of them would have believed it, but today the gas bag is worth $230, the feedbag has become unsustainable, and the price of fertilizer has increased 4 or 5 times the price of DAP fertilizer, even the price of coal prices has increased by 4,000 lira. In such an environment, it has become a non-advisable country, Turkey, but at the same time, it is difficult for the industry, for other producers, because they have also tried to continue producing their products and raw materials in the face of terrible price hikes every time they purchase them. Dear friends, look, to sum up the business, this government's policy of dry-growing directly harms all economic indicators. For one thing, the more the courtship keeps growing, the more the income distribution goes down, the richer the poor the poor. According to TÜİK figures, 4 million people live in Turkey today with only $16 per day and only $16 per day. What you call $16 is 1 kilo of flour, and when you go to the market, you'll see that 1 kilo of flour is $16.90. So the daily income of 4 million people in this country does not amount to one kilo of flour, and Turkey has come to this point. Again, according to TİK figures, 16 million people live on only $29 a day. The government really needs to think about how a day can be spent with 29 liras, how our people can survive, and it needs to be questioned. Dear friends, this policy, foreign currency, dry-up policy makes inflation unbearable, but also increases budget deficits. As a matter of fact, when we look at budget deficits, we see that there is a continuous budget deficit in the budget of 2020, 2021, 2022, up to 3.5 per cent of the non-national market. This open ratio is considered to be a high deficit, not according to the standards of the European Union, but the worst part is that it's been going on for years, and it's clear that the government can't establish a permanent, decent policy. On the other hand, the dry-raising policy increases interest payments in the budget, the dry-up policy increases the country's foreign debt in Turkish liras, and unfortunately it puts a huge burden on the country's back.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0301par0085	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0300par0086	What does this policy do? If you say, who won with this policy, with the policy of drying up? In 2019 and 2020, whoever took 128 billion dollars won. An account has been made; imagine that it was given to one of the 630 cents, and those who received 128 billion dollars have profited over $1 trillion, a profit greater than the centuries-old profits of Turkey's largest companies. Or in the same way, because these guarantees of payment depend on foreign currency, the guarantees of payment in the budget as 42 billion -- because it's guaranteed in tattoos -- are over 70 billion dollars. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So he put more than 30 billion on it. So there are winners, and there are losers; and the losers are the people, and the winners are a handful of people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0302par0091	Van MP Abdulahat Arvas has requested a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Arvas.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0303par0094	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. Van, who mortgaged the development and future of the region, became a center of attraction during the AK PARTY. Van is a major advantage of being on trade routes because of its geographical location, and socioeconomically is the center of attraction in the region. The migrations he received from the surrounding provinces and the population structure are a summary of Eastern and Southeast Anatolia. So Van has played a very decisive role in the region as of its geopolitical position. Van, who has a strong interaction with neighbouring provinces, is of great importance to the rest of the region and our country. The province of Van is the most important city in the region with its strong and fast-growing economy, the diversity of its economic activities. Van is an opportunity to invest in the youth population, strategic location, commercial resources, tourism potential, natural beauty, cultural diversity. Van is the gateway to Asia, Turkey and Europe. Van is a major base in trade with Iran, Iraq, Azerbaijan, in the region of the Middle East, Caucasus and Central Asia. There are six countries such as Iran, Syria, Azerbaijan, Nahçivan, Georgia and Armenia. Van offers investors great opportunities and opportunities through land roads, railways and air access to the Middle East, Caucasus and Asia market, providing human capital, efficient land, renewable energy potential, high industrial infrastructure. Dear lawmakers, 540 hectares are the area size of the Organised Industrial Region, which was founded in 1998 and was my first investor. There are 410 industrial parcels in the area of mixed industrial activity. As part of the charm centers, increased demand and applications made by international branded companies have been paid for the fifth stage of 277 hectares and included in the OSB borders. A second organised industrial area was established in Ercish district of our region, where the development of a decisive campaign against terrorism during the period of our EC PARTI governments, with financial support provided by the Ministry of Industry and Technology and its infrastructure completed, and in the first period of about 22 hectares, 24 industrial sector investors were given licenses to 9 companies. About 800 jobs are being targeted in the organised industrial region, which will contribute to our district and the region's economy. Precious lawmakers are at a 100 per cent rate with 32 companies producing in the project "Textilekent," which was completed in 2017. A total of 2,500 people are employed in this project. The government's incentives and increased demands have been assessed in 2019 and the Van Textil and Ready Dressed Industry District has been established, and 42 industrial and ready-dress OSB companies, including 100 hectares of Van Textilkent and OSB, have been established, including infrastructure investments, such as electricity and sewers, and investors have been earmarked. The project aims to employ 15,000 people. Our country is geothermally rich among the world's countries because its geological and geographical position is on an active generation. Our province of Van is also very rich in geothermal resources, especially in Ercish and Çaldıran, and has begun the process of establishing an agricultural-based greenhouse-organized industrial zone in Ercish in order to properly assess the resources already available in our districts and to bring them into the economy. If 2 geothermal wells have been opened in the region, which have been detected as a result of geophysical study, the geothermal organised industrial zone within 1,000 acres of the Ercish district will be established within the borders of our district. Dear lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we strive to create jobs for our young people, whose humility, sincerity and zeal are the investments, production and employment campaigns we've started with our mayors. With the resources and incentives provided by our president and ministers, the mayor of Gurpınar has been able to build a 6,500-square-square-square-square-metre factory to employ 350 people, which will hopefully reach 650 people in 2022. In the same way, 200 people were employed by our mayor of Gevash in his 2,800 square metre textile workshop, which, hopefully, will be raised to 500 people in 2022. Again, in 2022, the building of the textile factory, which continues as part of the Youth Employment Programme in Muradiye district, hopefully it will be employed as soon as possible. Van is the most attractive province of Turkey in terms of investment; its presence in the 6th district of regional incentives gives Van investors an advantage; time is time to invest in Van. We wait for our powerful companies in the search of investment, and let us build the future Van. We, the Almighty Vans, are prepared to make any contribution, and we are willing to be supportive. On this occasion, I wish you all the best in our 2022 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0304par0101	Yes, word requests have been met on behalf of the groups. The first word for the individuals is from Mr. Zemzem Gülender Akanal. Here you go, Mr. Azanal.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0305par0105	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf regarding Article 2 of the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, our country has successfully overcome the outbreak of Covid-19, which has destroyed the world for nearly two years, as well as the World Health Organization. We've become the only country in our city hospitals, where the opposition has seen a lot of people, and in every corner of the country, where we're the only country that has received diagnostics, treatments, intensive care, vaccines, and all the steps, and we're also one of the six countries that produce their own vaccine.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0306par0107	Where's it made?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0305par0108	I thank and thank all of our physicians, health workers and pharmacists who have been devoted to this whole struggle. Dear lawmakers, even though it was the greatest epidemic in history that mankind lived in, the plague, the typhoid, the typhoid, the malaria, the cholera, we struggled with the plague without harming a single individual. One of the most important issues that should not be broken during the outbreak process was education. At the risk of a face-to-face education, we continued remote training with the EBA Project, and with the infrastructure that was ready, we protected our children and made sure that their education did not fail. In addition, we will support the careers of our precious teachers through the teaching profession. Dear lawmakers, in trade, we set up our economic route on production, investment, export and employment. In the third quarter of 2021, our economy grew by 7.4 per cent compared to the same period last year, and we ranked first among the G20 countries. On the other hand, as in many parts of the world, we have experienced the consequences of climate change in our country. We fought the flood, the earthquake, the fire. Our ministers, our regional deputies have been in disaster areas for days. We covered the wounds and supported them without victimizing anyone. And today, the construction and ulterior motive of those regions continues. For the first time in the history of the Republic, our nation has given us the task of preparing the budget for the 20th time. It shows that services are being served and appreciated. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, aside from the content of the budget, I'd like to address the style of budget talks. During the budget talks, the painting in our House, a representation office, was extremely disturbing. We already knew and saw that the main opposition party and its alliance did not realize that this roof was a place of compromise and representation, but I find it hard to accept the mind of a woman who defied the nation's budget as a surrogate, the shopkeeper, the farmer, the farmer, the teacher, the bureaucrat, the martyr sister, the defamer of this honorable parliament. As I invite you to rethink your unintelligible alliance as a opposition to what common denominator, I would like to remind you that Ziya Pasha's statement of status is the same. You know, what you've been going through recently, in the name of blending in with the people you've been missing, getting to know the citizens, being lawful, in the name of the people you've left behind. In his speech, the main opposition leader declared him an almost nut capital. You don't even know the state you're coming to. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, I was born in Urbana, I grew up, I've been a pharmacist for years, I'm also a farmer, but I assure you, I've never seen a branch grow.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0307par0117	Fertilizer costs 15,000 lira.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0305par0118	You don't know the city you're visiting. And give me the Great City. I'll do it, I'll do it. You say, "Look at the big cities in your hands."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0308par0120	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0309par0121	Open up, people, open up!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0310par0122	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0311par0123	I assure you, our dear nation and the people you are unaware of will give you the answer you need in the chest, which is the symbol of democracy again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0312par0125	Okay, shall we go to the trunk now? Let's go to the trunk! Come on, get the chest, come on!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0311par0126	On the 11th day of the budget, the esteemed MPs thank our Vice President, Mr Fuat Oktay, our esteemed ministers, our President of the Plan and Budget Commission, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, and his members, and the precious members of the Parliament who are also working overtime, I wish the nation's budget to be good for our saintly nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0312par0128	Come on, get the chest, come on! Let's go to the trunk! Let's go to the trunk!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0313par0129	When there's something they don't like, yell and push.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0314par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0315par0131	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0314par0132	Sir, what our president did in Urbana...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0316par0133	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0315par0134	Mr. Sarıbal, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to hear Altay. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0317par0136	They teased us about a speech made by our president in Urbana.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0315par0137	Yes, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0317par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. I, of course, feel sorry for the AK PARTY, because they have nothing left to say to the people.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0318par0142	We told you an hour ago! We told 81 million again an hour ago.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0317par0143	I'll just close my ear and talk like that. If there's nothing left to say to people, it's a sign that they're going to get here in politics.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0319par0145	We've seen where you've landed in politics through actions here, where you've fallen!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0320par0146	This is the National Assembly, we have MPs here!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0317par0147	Now, I'm going to ask a question to the most respected lady. It's a pity if you've become more desperate for the word "freaky" in Urbana. But I'll tell you this: for example, I'll tell you a slip of the tongue; I'll tell you a slip of the tongue: "Alhamdulillah, my children's throats are not lawful." We didn't even use it. Clearly, Mr. Recep actually said, "Haram didn't pass. Helal didn't eat when he meant it. And I entrust it to Allah and to our people, the All-mighty, the All-wise. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0321par0155	The second word on behalf of individuals belongs to Mr. Deniz Yavuzylmazul MP Zonguldak. Here you go, Mr. Yavuzyil.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0322par0158	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the cause of the economic crisis in Turkey. (PARTI) Because the EC PARTI rules the economy miserably, the Treasury also pays a difference in currency because Turkish lira has lost value and dollars and euros have risen. According to the Court reports, the currencies paid for loans used by public institutions and companies in 2020 amounted to 16 billion $230 million, the difference in currency paid in 2019, $10 billion $117 million, the difference in currency paid in 2018, 25 billion $117 million, that is between 2014 and 2020, a total of 77 billion 949 million, 77 quadrillion dollars in old money. In addition, this is $18 billion 505 million in exchange for currency in the years when they were paid off. If the economy hadn't been ruled so badly, if Turkish lira hadn't lost so much value in the face of dollars and euros, it wouldn't have been wasted, it would have stayed in the Treasury. Look, what was possible with this money? With this money, it was possible to build 14 Eurasia Tunnels, or to build 12 Osmangazi Bridges, or to build 8 Çanakkale Bridges, or 6 Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridges. Members of parliament, the $18 billion currency difference today is $277 billion for the current currency. If this money hadn't been vaporized by the AK PARTY, what kind of Turkey would have been possible? The minimum wage at the beginning of 2021 was not $2.825, but could be made at $5.091, or 2 million tradesmen, in the process of coronavirus, it was possible to donate $136,000 each, or to supply electricity, water, gas, rent, $3,500 per month. With this money, it was possible to retire 5 million UYTFs, or increase $21,000 per month to the salary of 13 million pensioners, or appoint 138 thousand unappointed teachers, and keep the salary available to them for 25 years. Look how possible it was for young people to change the future, but you didn't; you chose not the citizen, but the advocate, not the youth. With this money paid as a courtship difference, it was possible to build 5,440 government dorms with 500 beds, where 2 million,720,000 students could be sheltered, it was possible to save young people from the homes of cults and congregations; it was possible to give all colleges $2,750 a month scholarship. So it was possible to build a different Turkey. Dear lawmakers continue to live in luxury and luxury at the palace of the AK PARTY, while citizens are overwhelmed by the economic crisis, while young people can't find jobs, while the store closes its doors.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0323par0163	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0322par0164	Look, this is the bill for the luxury car that the palace ordered on March 30, 2021; the bill's address is the Presidential Chamber; the Mercedes S600 Guard car costs 474.950 euros; 220 percent OTV, 18 percent KDV added to it; 1 million 793,000 euros, or 30 million euros in current currency. That's how you order three cars, $90 million in total. Mr. AK PARTY MPs, I'd like to complete my speech with a determination.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0323par0167	Bow, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0322par0168	The minimum wage at the beginning of 2021 is $385, the minimum wage is only $274 with the increase in wages announced today, so the difference is 111 dollars, as anyone who knows four transactions can calculate. A minimum-paying citizen with 30 percent of the buy-out power will ruin your game in the first crate. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0323par0171	The request for a statement has been met on behalf of the individuals.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0324par0172	Mr. President, with a minute's notice... because he gave a speech aimed at our party.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0325par0173	He didn't take any aim, he said, "Mr. AK PARTI."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0324par0174	The AK PARTY Group is the cause of the current economic crisis. I'd like to make a statement for a minute, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0326par0175	We don't have that way. He did his usual reviews, no bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0324par0176	Satatma said "AK PARTY."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0326par0177	I'll give you a minute, just a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0324par0178	Well, according to 60, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0326par0179	No teasing, he did his usual reviews. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0324par0181	Yes, Mr. Orator, perhaps he would be right if he made that determination like this. It would have happened if he had told me the minimum wage of the party, which was to continue, in 1994. He's comparing the minimum wage of the EC PARTY period to the AK PARTY period, not thanking us, but if he's going to compare the past, that's what he's going to do. Two: if the economy...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0326par0183	Let me ask you something -- now that you've made a promise -- if the account was wrong, I would promise you from the stand. I'm asking if the math is right or wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0324par0184	Wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0327par0185	Wrong, wrong, all wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0326par0186	Yeah, how is that wrong?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0327par0187	You're the President, you're the President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0328par0188	The success of the AK PARTY period...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0326par0189	Now, stop politics, stop demagogue.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0328par0190	Wait, how?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0326par0191	Whether the bill is right or wrong, I'll promise not to tease you on the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0328par0192	No, wait a minute, you're criticizing the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0329par0193	Is it true or wrong in dollars?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0330par0194	You're the President, you're the President, so get in here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0331par0195	Take your word for it, you don't have to evaluate as Speaker.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0330par0196	You go here, you're the president.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0332par0197	Why are you yelling? Let me say one word.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0333par0198	He picked on me on the dollar, on the dollar.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0330par0199	No, you're the president. No, you don't. You don't have that right. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0334par0200	If you're going to criticize the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0330par0201	I'm sorry, you don't have that right, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0335par0202	I know what I'm doing, guys, so mind your own business.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0330par0203	Mind your own business.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0336par0204	Mind your own business, that's what they remind you of.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0330par0205	That's right, you don't mind your own business, you take another job.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0337par0206	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0338par0208	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0337par0209	The AK PARTY is not criticized for the success of the EC PARTY, but you compare them to the time when they were in power.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0339par0210	He's been telling you about last year in dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0337par0211	Three: If you're going to make a criticism, you will criticize a government in which you are now in power, and you will say: "We adopted the budget of the Istanbul Metropolitan Council in November. We had 2,800 vehicles in that budget, we raised it to 4,000, and we went up to 1.5 billion, so you can compare. Four: Again, your President-in-Chief said in Fairfax: "Give us the Metropolitan Municipality, we'll give you the electricity free of charge."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0339par0213	But why don't you read the head? We'll do it with solar panels.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0337par0214	He'd do his word now in Ankara, Istanbul, İzmir, Antalya, and he'd say, "We'll give the electricity free of charge next semester."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0339par0215	Solar panels...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0340par0216	Let's go!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0337par0217	That's comparison. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0341par0220	He won't cut the water.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0337par0221	Do the same.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0342par0222	Why are you standing in your municipalities? Do it in one. Do it in one.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0343par0223	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0344par0224	Zonguldak caused a taunt by referring to the views he did not express when he removed from the context of what he said on the stand, because our Zonguldak MP spoke of the success of the EC PARTI, not of the success of the AK PARTI, on the stand. All viewers who didn't watch our Zonguldak MP at the time had a different perception that Deniz Yavuzylmaz is having a different conversation based on my deputy's claim. For that, I would like to speak to Deniz Yavuzylmaz. Also, I'd like to say with a minute's notice from our president: yes, whether you explode or explode, we'll give the farmer the electricity he needs at the point of production free, brother, to the farmer, to the farmer...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0345par0227	So give it to me in Izmir, give it to me in Istanbul, give it to me in Adana...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0346par0228	Yeah, give it to me. What are you waiting for?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0344par0229	Is there electricity production produced in Istanbul?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0346par0230	What are you waiting for, Congressman? Give it to me. Who's holding your hand? Give me one. Give me one.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0344par0231	Is he drawing water with electricity?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0346par0232	Give me one; give it to Izmir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0344par0233	We're not gonna charge for the water out of the well, the electricity, period.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0346par0234	Yeah, give it to me. What are you waiting for?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0344par0235	We won't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0346par0236	Give it to Ankara, give it to Antalya, give it to Mersin; why are you waiting?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0344par0237	What's it to you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0346par0239	Why are you waiting? Why won't you give it to me?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0344par0240	None of your business! We won't, we won't!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0347par0242	Congressmans, there's a preacher on the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0348par0243	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I have presented my speech with scientific findings and documents. According to these documents, the content of the talk was: "Oh, 77 billion dollars, 949 million dollars, because you ran the economy in a terrible way, there was a court difference paid, and I'm talking to loaners companies, and you don't object to that. Why? Because that's what the Court report says. Today, with the current exchange rates, 18 billion 505 million dollars have been squandered, I say the difference in courtship has been paid, and there's not a single objection, and you have no response to that. I'm telling you, you stole the future of teenagers, they can't get scholarships, they can't stay in dorms, they're being held captive by cults, congregations, there's no answer. The minimum wage difference that anyone who knows only four transactions can calculate is in dollars, which will be calculated by 10 million minimum-paying citizens in Turkey. Why do you deceive yourselves, they're going to multiply, they're going to collect, they're already going to go, 30 percent of the buy power has fallen... you're still trying to hide the truth in this Congress, which represents the will of the nation, staring them in the eye. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0349par0245	Mr. Orator, we get hundreds of calls, they appreciate it, they congratulate you on the minimum wage. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0350par0251	Yes, we're starting the QA process. Mr. Karahocagil...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0351par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you have shown your right to the people and to the workers, not only by words, but by your actions today. I wish the minimum wage of $4,250 would be good. May God keep you in mind. We know what our president said, what we do, what we do, what we do, what we do, what risks we face, what we end up with. Hopefully, starting in the coming months, we'll start to see the positive reflections of our policies in everyday life. Just as this nation has stood firm with its headman for twenty years, God willing, in 2023, the opposition will stand firm with you, whether it explodes or explodes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0352par0256	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0353par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. How much money has been paid in the last two years for the safe roads, bridges and airports? What's the definition of this in dollars? And because he couldn't afford the guarantee of payment, how much was the government's treasury paid for here? What do you get for that in terms of dollars and dollars? Is there any debt here at this time? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0354par0260	Dear Rose...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0355par0261	The feminist American writer Bell Hooks, who opened breaches in the walls of racism, bourgeois, transphobia and patriarcha and spent his life in solidarity, struggle and resistance, has left us today. In his words, I remember Bell Hooks, who raised and strengthened our feminist struggle. Closer, see how feminism can touch our lives, all of our lives, and change those lives. Come closer and see for yourself what's wrong with the feminist movement. Come closer, and you will see that feminism is for everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0354par0263	Mr. Excessive? No. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0356par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. There are no surgical surgeries in hospitals at this time due to this abnormal increase in the currencies. Especially in orthopedics, cardio, and neurosurgery, surgeries have been at a standstill since December 6th. Given the amount of euros they're counting at $4 today, I'd like to ask Mr. Finance and Treasury Minister how you're going to solve this problem. There are currently no syringes, pencils, the simplest surgical instruments, medical equipment, and unfortunately, people are starting to lose their lives because they can't operate. The same is true in medicine; you count it dry at 4.57, euro 17.5. Do you have a solution or a plan, a study?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0354par0267	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0357par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. According to statements on minimum wage, it was $385 in 2021, and today it was estimated at $274. Will you reduce inflation to 56 percent? Will you stop the increase in fuel tonight? Are you going to draw the dollar bill for $10? If you are going to do these things, the minimum wage today is positive, no, if you are not going to do these things, we have raised the minimum wage. There is no need to brag about it. And finally, I'd like to say that because the Erasmus students didn't get their money, they started coming back from abroad. These kids aren't unclaimed. When do you plan to deposit these kids' money? Only 200 students from Paris returned.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0358par0272	Mr. Celebrity...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0359par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, KH6 was released in December 2017 and the public contractors were recruited and subcontractors in municipalities were taken into municipal companies. City managers and other public employees were entitled to pay, compensation and bonuses, while the employees of municipal companies were satisfied with a government raise of 4%. While staffed officers and workers receive their labor in inflation increases and collective agreements, municipal employees are denied these rights. Thousands of workers in municipal companies in Turkey are awaiting improvement of their rights and status, such as staffed workers. Do you have any work for people who work for city companies? I'm curious about that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0358par0275	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0360par0276	Mr. President, first of all, after our President has announced the minimum wage, especially in messages from our Ministry, the Ministry of Labor, Mr. President, and our phones from minimum wagers, thank you, you heard us, you've done more than our hearing. That's what we've been waiting for from you. You haven't let us down in 19 years. We thank you, we pray.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0361par0277	Madam Secretary is coming to us. He's coming to all of us.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0360par0278	Now, no matter which of us we say here, minimum wage, when he sees what he's paid for from New Year's Eve, he'll have his own opinion beyond all of us. They're doing their prayers right now, sending their thanks, but what's important is what they're going through.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0362par0279	He'll see it when he gets to the store.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0363par0280	Multiplication, addition, extraction, division.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0360par0281	Look, we've increased the minimum wage by 50.5 percent in the previous year.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0362par0282	Then inflation is over 50 percent, Mr. Secretary, so TİK is lying, which means TİK is lying. Inflation came out, real inflation came out.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0360par0283	We've increased the cost of minimum wage to the employer by 39.9%.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0364par0284	The dollar is now running for $16.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0360par0285	The minimum wage went up to $4,253.40. The minimum wage between 2002 and 2022 increased 24.4 times, while inflation increased 6.4 times.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0364par0286	Tell me about the fertilizer increase, the animal feed increase.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0360par0287	The minimum wage increased by 538 per cent, while inflation increased by 2.438 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0364par0288	Two hundred and fifty pounds a bag of oaths, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0365par0289	He'll be working for a minimum wage month, Mr. Secretary, five pounds of fertilizer.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0364par0290	Fertilizer is 750 lira. He can take 5 pounds of urethra.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0365par0291	It's a shame, it's a sin!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0364par0292	Seven hundred and fifty liras of dung, 250 liras of animal oaths.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0366par0293	Sell your own car for last year's price!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0365par0294	A month to work for a minimum wage of five and a half pounds is a waste; it's a sin; it's a sin.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0364par0295	The diaper went from $49 to $79, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0367par0296	In the same way, in 2003, he received 203 kilograms of bread with minimum wage, and today he can receive 361 kilos of bread, and from New Year's, he can receive 468 kilograms of bread.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0364par0297	There's almost a 100 percent increase in everything, what are you still talking about there?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0367par0298	In 2003, he could receive 23 kilograms of veal at minimum wage, while in 2021, he would receive 46 kilograms of beef and 62 kilograms of veal at 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0368par0299	The hungry chicken sees himself in the millet barn!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0369par0300	How much was a loaf of bread in January 2021, and how much is a loaf of bread now?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0367par0301	In 2003, you could get 57 kilograms of white cheese for minimum wage...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0368par0302	110 lira, Mr. Secretary, the pound of meat.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0370par0303	Minister, why didn't you deposit the money for the students who went to Erasmus?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0371par0304	It's because of you people who buy that white cheese with a gram, gram by gram.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0368par0305	Calcify the breeding! What's the breeding, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0306	...in 2021, 93 kilograms of white cheese and 129 kilograms of white cheese in 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0371par0307	People buy Grams and cheese.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0368par0308	Can you tell the breed, Mr. Secretary? Can you tell me the farmer's fertilizer, how much is the fertilizer?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0309	In 2003, at minimum wage, 1.447 kilowatts of electricity...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0371par0310	You've raised 150 lira to 750 liras of fertilizer, tell me about it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0311	...can receive 3,317 kilowatts per year in 2021, and will receive 4.637 kilowatts of electricity next month.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0373par0312	He'll get it, he'll get it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0313	In 2003 he could receive 614 cubic metres of natural gas, while today he could receive 1,351 cubic metres of natural gas and 1,883 cubic metres of gas in January 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0374par0314	That's $1,700.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0315	In 2003, 11 tubes were available for minimum wage, while 22 in 2021, 24 with a January increase in 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0375par0316	Mr. Secretary, the students are trapped abroad. Will you save the trapped students?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0376par0317	Gazel reading, Gazel reading!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0318	In 2003 he could receive 124 litres of gas at minimum wage, while in 2021 he would receive 368 litres; in 2022 he would receive 489 litres of gasoline in the same way. In 2003, you can receive an LPG with a minimum wage of 226 litres, while 646 litres will now be subject to an increase in the same way as next month.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0377par0319	How much is the bread, bread?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0320	Now, the bread is from 203 kilograms to 468 kilograms; the veal is from 23 kilograms to 62 kilograms; the white cheese is from 57 kilograms to 129 kilograms; the electricity is from 1,447 to 4,637 kilowattsaate; the natural gas cubic is from 614.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0377par0321	The regular cheese is 50 lira a kilo, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0378par0322	You're not capable, you don't understand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0372par0323	...tube 11 to 24, gasoline 124 to 489, engine 161 to 491, LPG 226 to 644, 80 to 260, including highway crossing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0379par0325	Looks like the TIC gave you these, not in the markets. Market prices...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0378par0326	You're not capable, you don't understand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0380par0327	You do the math right...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0381par0328	I mean, I'm really sorry right now, but I've got some very valuable deputies on my phone...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0382par0329	Yes, Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0383par0330	How much did the Federal Reserve print in three months?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0382par0331	I don't extend your time because you don't answer any questions.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0384par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0382par0333	Yes, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0384par0334	Sir, I have a brief request for 60.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0382par0335	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0384par0336	Thank you. After the minimum wage was announced today, Mr. President made a public assessment: "We are not condescending." We're realistic, we're not condescending, but, friends, have a heart. Minister, if I may give you an example: On January 1st, the bread was $1.5 and 1.884 bread was bought at minimum wage. Now, your bread is $2.8 and your minimum wage is 1,615 bread, so Mr. Minister, 269 bread is missing, that's the truth. But I say again: If you drop the dollar to nine, to ten, to nine, to ten, we will truly applaud the dollar.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0385par0339	If you wait a little longer, he'll fall!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0384par0340	You know, I don't clap, so we'll applaud.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0386par0341	Engin Bey, please applaud this 50 percent. It's a beautiful thing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0385par0342	Wait till next year, it'll fall. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0387par0348	Members of the law, I will now read the general sums of the C-section and submit them to your votes. [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 941,944,001,00 Collection 1,158,046,374.940,42 Ret and Returns (-) 153,028,444,447,45 Net Collection 1.005.017.930.492.97 All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes with Article 2 (B): those who accept... those who do not... those who do not... are accepted. Now, I'm going to read the third article: MADDE 3- (1) Adds to Article 5018 between budget costs in 2020 and budget revenues in total; 178,145,206,872.98 Turkish Lira is more than that, as part of the general budget on the ruler number I. B) (1,337,573,386,17 Turkish Lira income surplus in special budgetary administrations on table number III) C) (III) The income of regulatory and auditory institutions in the ruler is more than 1,024,606,660,21 It's done. (2) The central management of 2020 is 175,291,608,333.99 Turkish Lira. İstanbul MP Umit White has requested a statement on the third article on behalf of the PTA Party Group. Here you go, Mr. White.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0388par0368	Mr. President, on behalf of the party, the esteemed MPs have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the Final Accounting Law Proposal of 2020, and I salute our Veteran Assembly. In all the democratic countries of the world, power is subject to control because control is one of the principles of democratic governance, without supervision, there is no democracy. In our country, the Court is also in charge of government revenues, budget expenditures and public resources on behalf of the great Turkish nation. But Turkey, which has been in power since 2002, sees the EC PARTI as a liability, not to account, not to be audited, and in its opinion, it will oversee its own power, and the authority of the institutions to ask for account. Here is just one of these institutions that has been in the court for a hundred and fifty-five years. Today, the Court is clearly unable to do its duty. The Court is no longer able to supervise public resources. The Court's judiciary has been pacified. No one has ever been processed for reports filed by the court. The Court of Justice in AKP Turkey has unfortunately lost its capacity for financial control, performance control. Their authority has been revoked, and the Court is clearly censored. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, despite heavy censorship and oversight of the Court, we can see from reports leaked to the press that there is irregularities from ministries, universities, private budgetary administrations, municipalities, county private administrations. The work that has to be done with the tender is done without a contract. As soon as the government moves in, the assets are being handed down, free of charge, and free of charge, as soon as they're moving in, they're going after people and institutions. The chief of staff is used as a midterm pass to civil service, the revenues of institutions are not listed and are left unregistered. Trade agreements after tenders are being changed in favour of the recipients; the state is being looted, the nation's money is being squandered. Dear lawmakers, why isn't there a court report that moves to court? Why isn't he being questioned about these uncompromising expenses? Why don't you people call on the nation to fight for economic salvation, to pay for this luxury, this luxury, this luxury, these irregular expenses? When it comes to interest, you say "Nâss" but when it comes to looting of public goods, you can't think of any signs of public destruction. He who forbids usury forbids treachery on the property of the people. The People of the Scripture (Jews and Christians) say: "Whoever steals anything, he will bring it back on the Day of Resurrection." Then every soul will be paid in full for what it has earned. Why do you not consider this scripture, which is leaning on its back in interest? Dear lawmakers are entrusted with public property; stealing public property is treason; the sin of stealing public property is not only on those who steal it, but on those who protect and protect it. Our beloved Prophet, he who conceals it is also of him. He commands it. Therefore, our responsibility to the nation is not only to make law, but to protect the people's property, the people's law, not to tolerate theft, corruption. I'm afraid you're billing God for your wrong practices, your wrong policies. We will try you with a little fear and hunger, our Lord. You make the cause of the crisis seem like a test of God. In order to stay in power for six more months, do not destroy this nation's spiritual values. Know that people are getting poor every day, and you're getting rich, so you're being tested, but you're the one who can't pass the test. Dear lawmakers, we have had citizens standing in line in front of public bread buffets this week, who have avoided taking responsibility for their policies and have targeted certain masses as the perpetrators of the problems. An Istanbul Metropolitan Assembly member of the AKP has recently participated in a television show where the public has implied fiction about people waiting to buy cheap bread in front of bread, asking if you are sure that those waiting in the queue are waiting for bread. I'd like to show you from here, folks, that most of the people who are waiting in front of the buffets in Istanbul, in front of about 2,000 people's bread buffets -- unfortunately, that's the way it is. (Applause from the parties) These words, which no one will say with a clean body, a clean conscience, a heart that hits the nation, have hurt our citizen who wants to buy cheap bread in Istanbul. No one who has a chance waits in those lines to buy cheap bread in the cold, in the rain. The AKP believes that the bread lines are also staged, as every case against them is linked to an external power. The AK PARTI executives, who have been cut off from the nation's reality during the long period of power, and who think Turkey is just numbers, growth, development, don't forget that those waiting in public bread lines have cursed them. Dear friends, bread is 3.5 TL in some ovens in Istanbul. The citizens are saving at least $1.75 on every 1.25 TL bread they buy from the bread. Our citizen stands in line for hours to buy these cheap breads. You've put people in a position to save money. Instead of thinking about it, you question whether those waiting in line are expecting bread; it is shameful and sinful. Tails are not a picture of fiction, but of poverty, the need for a citizen's dry bread. You're the reason people try to buy cheap bread by getting in those lines. Tails are the work of the Turkish presidential system. You've created two kinds of tails: First, the People's Bread Tails, where you depend on cheap bread for our own citizen. Second, Bulgarian tourists come to Edirne, because they find shopping cheaper in Turkey. You created such a Turkey. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, for days our municipal workers have been on strike in my district and my constituency district of Bakırköy City, which, given Turkey's economic crisis, has made the right humanitarian demands. In our country, where consumer goods are increased by 100 percent, offering our municipal workers zero raises is not conscientious. With inflation reaching 40 per cent, a seven per cent increase in municipal workers is unacceptable. Our fellow workers expect a human salary, an inflation gap, to be reflected in their salaries; they want to be compensated for their hard work, their work. Despite missing personnel, our city personnel who work with self - sacrifice should not be victimized, they must be given their rights. I don't think it's right that our friends who strike and use their rights should be fired, expelled, threatened with a mobbing. I'm also waiting to take on any task that falls upon me to end this strike. Dear lawmakers, our physicians finally left work yesterday, they went on strike. Do you remember, at the beginning of the outbreak, we clapped our hands on the balconies, the paramedics, two years ago, we left them alone? However, they did not ask much; they asked that their work conditions be improved, safe, healthy working conditions be rewarded, not imposed on a patient every five minutes. You didn't pay, you said you couldn't pay. You didn't really pay. Since the first day of the outbreak, you have not appreciated the selfless efforts of all health workers, doctors, nurses, technicians, who have struggled with the epidemic, and you have not corrected their financial, social rights. You didn't correct the working conditions, nor did you correct the pay injustice. And you turned the paramedics against one another. Dear lawmakers, our health workers deserve a good life just as much as you do. In a survey, 79 per cent of healthcare workers are not given the necessary value, 92 per cent are not satisfied with their salary and return capital...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0389par0380	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0388par0381	... 54 per cent say their efforts have not been repaid, 70 per cent feel insecure about the future, 43 per cent say that the working conditions are not physically and psychologically adequate, 64 per cent have psychiatric or psychological complaints during the pandemic period, 83 per cent feel psychologically exhausted. I'm just saying, how long are you going to wait to solve the problems of our hero people, give them their rights? I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0389par0384	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0390par0385	Sir, I'm bored, but I often ask for words. I need to tell my congressman something very brief, in reference to his speech.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0389par0386	Here you go, according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0390par0387	Thank you very much. Mr. White has told me about the strike at Copperville City Hall, and I thank him very much.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0391par0389	You've been there, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0390par0390	I'm going to say it. We consider the strike a right. I personally, as the district's MP, sat in that strike tent with my fellow workers for over an hour, chatted, told them that they were right, that they should continue their struggle. We don't forbid the strike, we consider the strike a right. Our Mayor of Copperville is on his way to work every day, and on his way to the office, he probably drinks a cup of tea in the strike tent and goes up like that. In this business, democracy will seek out the workers' rights, and the employer will try to give them what he can. This is on the agenda of both our Mr. President and Mr. Vice President in charge of the local administration. And we want it solved. We're with the workers at this point. Of course, we also advise the administration as headquarters. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0392par0393	Okay, thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Adana MP Muharrem Varlı has requested a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0393par0402	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the 3rd Amendment. I salute you all. Of course, there's a lot of talk about economics when you talk about budgets. Here's the rise in dollars, because of its reflection, the cost of our people's buying power has dropped, but to the minimum wage, especially since many of the speakers here have brought up this inflation rate, over the number of TİK. Here, it's said to be much higher; it's said to be in the 50 percent, or so. With the President's final statement, over 50 per cent of the minimum wage has been at a level that hopefully pleases our workers. I congratulate the government's officials, our narrow-income citizens, to see that such a number is appropriate to comfort our people in a difficult situation, and I thank them. Hopefully, our workers will express their satisfaction in that sense. Of course, as the dollar goes up, unfortunately, I'm sad. I don't have money, I don't buy dollars, but I don't understand why people would be so happy as the dollar goes up, and I don't understand why people would be so happy, so it's hurting the economy of our country, it's hurting all of us, it's costing us all of us, so why are people so happy, they're always speculating over dollars, I still don't get it, I don't get it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0394par0405	Tell him there, over there.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0393par0406	I know exactly who to tell, so you don't have to point it at me. I'm talking in the middle, and no matter who takes it personally, I don't understand why you're taking it personally. I'm just saying there's nothing here to be happy about the raise of the dollar. This is a damage to our country's economy; we need to see this.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0394par0407	But you supported the Republic Alliance.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0393par0408	I'm just saying, it's not right to speculate on this. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Again, here it is, interest rate dropped today. Of course, the final, economically, the government's decision is low interest, so, hopefully, at the point of increasing production, this will have a good result for our country. Of course, with our President-General's instructions, we've gone with a lot of people, and we've visited the industrial room, the trade room, the business room, and what we've seen is that they don't really say that they're doing more damage than the dollar is going up, and they say that exports are going to have a lot of trouble going forward, at the point of raw materials -- and that's what they're doing. I'd like to mention that in particular. The executives in the industrial room are all industrialists, people from the inside, and people who know what they're doing. There's only one problem here... I told you in my last speech that our farmers' fertilizer has increased, it's true, but in return it's wheat, it's corn, it's cotton, and their wages are rising to please the farmer. Of course, the only problem is, hopefully, the government will keep it at this level, so I don't think the farmer's gonna get hurt if the prices don't fall under it, but since he's affected by it, I believe the minimum wage will be at a level that will satisfy the pension tomorrow. In that respect, we thank the authorities. Of course, when it came to unemployment, many of our friends here said different things about it. When they run into some unemployed citizens on the street, they say they can't bring bread to their homes, they can't give their kids an allowance. That's right, let's not let God put anyone out of work, let's not let anyone get an allowance for their child, but it's just been discussed here, and I know that our workers working in the city of Adana, my constituency district, are still being removed. When we talk about this through unemployment, our municipalities should not contribute to increased unemployment, they need to protect it, so how right is it to do politics and put the worker out the door while defending the worker's rights? I don't understand that either. Mr. Altay is a very experienced group of presidents, and I'd like to say that I'm being offended by one thing and that our workers are being very sensitive. All of them are ATMs. Our workers, you call them, called me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0395par0412	I said it for the ones that got thrown out, and if there's a mistake...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0393par0413	I'm only saying this because they specifically want me to, Mr. Group Vice President, so I'm telling you what our employees told me. Most of them were laid off because they were partied working hard, which, of course, is not the right thing to do. So there's going to be talk of unemployment, sir, that they can't bring bread to their homes, and you, the partyer, will be laid off because you're part of this party. It's not the right thing to do, and it's impossible to accept. Again, when the municipalities are spoken, I'd like to talk about a very good practice by our Silivri Mayor. He planted barley and sunflowers and planted wheat in the city's 3,500 acres, and he distributes the raw material from sunflowers as sunflower oil to the small-income people there. Again, he distributes the raw material from that barley as seed barley. That's how municipalism should be, so it should look after the poor and use the city's resources to the poor poor. In that respect, congratulations to the mayor of Silivri, he's done a really good job, and I wish him all the best. (Applause from MHP rows) He distributed 400 tons of seed barley, 400 tons, so that's a big number. Again, 50 tons of sunflower oil has been distributed to the poor wretch. These are really important numbers. From this point of view, this is what municipalism is supposed to be, so it needs to produce something at a service point for our people. Again, by decree of this law, you know, the members of the municipal staff were assigned as contract personnel. But, of course, right now, because of lack of law, the municipalities don't pay much attention to it, and they can get out. For him, I think we should make an arrangement here as both the AK PARTY and the National Movement Party. I mean, I think it's best that we set up their legal rights without just giving the mayor the initiative to protect our workers. Hopefully, we'll see about that within the laws to be passed because our workers have such expectations, they called us and told us, and I want to point that out from here. Again, friends, we're all greeting each other here, and when we're outside the door, we say, "How are you?" We say, "Are you okay?" Yeah, but when we get behind the podium, something happens to us, or something happens to us when someone gives us a microphone. (Applause from MHP rows) So we're saying very harsh words, we're insulting each other very strongly, we're hurting each other. Friends, when we speak of the honor and dignity of the House, we must protect the honor and dignity of the House. How can we expect respect from others if we don't treat each other with respect? Now, I could have said that much more heavily than Mr. Altay knows my style.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0396par0418	The AK PARTY knows it well, the AK PARTY knows it well!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0393par0419	But look, if you'll be careful, I say it in a very polite way. So we have to do this, we have to do this, and if we don't do this, I really think it's out of our hands to protect the honor of the House. That's what you are! That's what you are! That's what you are! That's not the right thing to say. We have to maintain the best style here, we have to do it; if we fail, the initiative falls into the hands of others. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Again, our farmers have an expectation, they specifically said, that the agricultural loans of the Bank of Agriculture are very good, God willing, are really good subsidies and so on, because I'm a farmer, I'm taking advantage of these loans, and all of our farmers are taking advantage of them, but when the farmer can't pay off his debt, they're getting an assessment of the current real interest, so 15 percent, 16 percent, that's a little bit high, and that's a little bit high, and we're going to have to tell the Agricultural Bank officials, hopefully, that's going to have to be reduced to the Department of Agriculture officials. If we drop this... our farmers have to produce it... so last year the wheat was around 18 million tons, and this year the drought expected a figure of about 15 million tons, and Turkey needs 22-23 million tons of wheat, both for pasta and for finding and flour. In order for us to produce this, we have to support the farmer, and to support the farmer, I think we need to do enough to support both the premiums and the Agricultural Bank. With these thoughts and feelings, I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0397par0424	Şanlıurfa MP Omar Ocalan has requested a statement on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0398par0427	Mr. President, dear General Assembly, I salute our people. Dear friends, right now there are major rights violations in prisons, prisons. According to the IHD, 1,605 patients are in prison with heavy weights of 604. 682 prisoners have died in ten years, and two have died in the last three or four days. What an unconscionable government has been, what a cruel government it has been. Imagine -- you're 15 to 16 years old, you're young, you're children -- you go to prison in your 20s, you stay in prison for twenty-nine years, your funeral comes out of prison, your funeral comes out of prison, unfortunately. Diyarbakır prison is always criticised. He was also criticised by the AKP administration, also used as political material. Who are you? You are the heirs of Assad Oktay, who were appointed by the Kenan Universe in the 80s as an internal security commander. He's done unspeakable tortures, he's killed dozens of people. There have been dozens of people abused, raped, tortured. You are now inheriting this. When did you become so cruel? How long have you left your conscience behind? Not one of you calls for peace, and none of you responds to it. Prisons are now a prison camp. A law was passed in this parliament because of the pandemic; it does not apply to politicians, he said, "The politicians are not affected by the pandemic." How long will this distinction, this privilege, this remorselessness go on? How far will this cruelty go? I assure you, our people will know this, and we will surely answer for it, and We will most certainly account for it with the like of it. (HDP applauses) Take that power behind your back, exhume the bodies of people who have stayed in prison for years, don't even give a funeral vehicle as they leave, and block the burial proceedings according to their religion, and then talk about humanity, democracy, and different things. When did you become so unconscionable? There's enemy law, but shouldn't we practice enemy law? Look, in the prison of Diyarbakır, people went on hunger strike, great revolutionaries. İdris Baluken is now in prison, from Bingol, a doctor. Mehmet Hayri Durmiş is also Bingollu, a doctor, and he was able to live on a hunger strike, a death fast; it happened 42 years ago. Where are you guys? The rest of you, you're 40 years behind. What Mehmet Hayri has said is that if I die, he owes my gravestone to the people. Don't illegalize, this country's TV show was shot, its film aired during the AKP era. What is it now? Right now, it's a major misdemeanor. Kemal Pir died in the same hunger strike as his friends. What he said: "We love him enough to die for his life. " Behold, those who are now in prison are persecuted because they are from this tradition, and they are insulted. His execution is over, his release is here, and the torture squads they set up inside are blocking his evacuation. He spent thirty years in prison; he calls out: 'Are you sorry or not?' He tries to break will. Whose will are you breaking? Who are you trying to account for? We'll have to answer for these things from this power, so God is our witness. Aysel Tuğluk was an MP here, arrested in 2006, lost his mother in 2017. The fascists here, the skull-takers, the skull measurers in Nazi Germany, they dug up her mother's body, and then they took pictures with the Home Secretary in the evening. When did you leave your conscience behind? There's a law of hostility. How could you do this? Aysel Tuğluk is in the dungeon, having great health problems. You sat in these same seats, but there's no law of hostility yet. Leyla Güven was here at this time, she served as a MP, you sentenced her to twenty-two years and three months, then you sentenced her to five years for propaganda, twenty-eight years to a congressman... friends, she explained the thought, she explained her idea; you can stand up, politics don't have to talk like you, she doesn't have to express her opinion, she has to fight for twenty-eight years... that's how it is, unfortunately, that's how it is. Look, Ali Cicek, Akif Yilmaz, Mehmet Hayri Durmiş, Kemal Pir have brought the country to a point as a result of massive hunger strikes. Then what happened? You filmed it on TV. They set fire to the bodies of Ferhat, and Necmi, and Ashraf, and Mahmoud, and against Esat Oktay, and against that fascist, and set fire to their bodies; and you made a film. We will make peace with the Kurds. We will recognise the rights of the Kurds. We'll have peace with the Kurds. You said. What are you doing now? Everything you do here is propaganda. You took this country to a cliff. Ayşe Gökkan is a women's rights advocate. What did he do? He's the mayor, he's the mayor, he's defended women's rights; he's been sentenced to 30 years, friends, 30 years, it's unbelievable. Inquisitor court... who can talk about justice, talk about law? The Minister of Justice is hanging around here, thinking there's law in his country. Does he live in a land of love and love? Does he live in Norway, Sweden? Here, our MPs are applying, petitioning, demanding an interview; unfortunately, it's a great injustice, a great injustice. They're calling him a terrorist. I'm sorry, he's one of the most honorable sons of his people. Our political friends in prison, our traveling friends are the most honorable sons of this people, and those who say "terrorists" are terrorists himself, who have not even been punished. You've sentenced İdris Bauken to 15 years! When you sat here together, Idris Bauken would say, "That's good, that's good, that's good... and then 15 years of punishment, a lifetime... what are you guys going to do? The Minister of Justice talks about prison as an investment tool, invests, runs a prison in the country. Your deputy Yozgat says there will be prison in this city and employment in it. What are you trying to do? But we'll pay for it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0399par0432	What do you do, son? What do you do? What are you going to punish me for? What are you going to pay for?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0398par0433	You don't come to the sultan, you don't come to the solution, you don't come to the dialogue, you arrest politicians and treat them like prisoners. Who got 30 years in prison? Who was sentenced to life in prison? These are politicians I'm talking about, political friends. They didn't even have a knife in their house, and they didn't even have a wounding material on their hands. So what? They criticised power, they were arrested for not participating in the policies of power. He is the government who sent these things in Imran, to deal with them in the process of resolving; he is the one who sent them to Kandil, and he is the one who carried the news; these are important and meaningful works. We value them. There's been a conflicting process going on for 40 years, and blood is pouring out. Around this time, there are people who have lost their brother, their son, their child, all the party groups. Where will this problem go? Won't it be solved? No dialogue? Won't it be brought to a stage? Won't there be a call to peace? Here are the economic consequences, my friends. The economic consequences of this conflicting process are obvious. The people of Turkey should see this, the Kurdish people should see this, there's a price to pay, the bill to all of us. Here, there are parties that exist on this blood. Without the HDP, without this conflicted process, there would be parties that would not enter the Parliament, and there would be an abuse zone. There are those in parliament who occupy the bench through the land, the nation, the literature of Sakarya. We, of course, insist on democratic politics. What are you guys doing? You're suing HDP (HDP) who represents the entire country with instructions.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0400par0435	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0398par0436	There's Armenian in HDP, there's Ezidi, there's Sunni Muslim, there's Alevi, there's Kurd, there's Turk, there's Suryani, there's women, there's friends. He's doing his greatest representation here, representing the entire country. What did he do, big chief? He's being instructed by the junior partner to terminate this party, and it's about law. It says politicians don't give judges, prosecutors, and this party is being terrorized. We're facing terrorism, terrorism, a major terror. We're fighting terrorism, we're fighting terrorism. I salute our people.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0400par0439	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr Ahmet Akin is a member of Balıkesir. Here you go, Mr. Akin.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0401par0442	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, let me start by saying that with this budget, with your power to transfer the largest resource in history, you have shown your skill in taking from our people and making a handful of your allies rich. The last budget you made in power came on October 16th -- two months passed, two months only -- and unfortunately, the budget went bankrupt before it came into effect in these two months. You've sunk the ship, and the more you talk about it, the more you try to save the ship that you've sunk, the more effort you've made to get it to the bottom. With the raises, the cost of living, you've also ruined the public's budget. Dear friends, in just two months, we've had 18 raises to fuel products, pump prices, and today we're getting one more. So the minimum wage has been announced, okay - but the raises keep riding on it, melting before it starts. With your raises, you've taken more than $150 from our citizen's pocket for one tank of gasoline. By imitating Europe, we have the cheapest fuel. You try to trick our people with pink paintings. When the Energy Minister gives examples of fuel prices, neither the minimum wage rates nor the purchase parities, none of them are taking castles, he says prices. The Netherlands, which has the highest price in Europe, said there are two euros in it, and said: "The previous minimum wage has now risen, the minimum wage has increased, but the fuel has increased immediately. Our citizen has yet to receive his raise at the end of January, but has begun to pay the price without receiving it. Now, we have to tell our citizens the truth, clearly. We can do the math together. Look, the captured, as of today -- this new minimum wage will be seized on January 30th, so let's see where the fuel prices will come from -- at a minimum price of 271 litres of gasoline, and you've explained from the European prices that you've described as the most expensive price in the Netherlands, 850 litres are taken from the Netherlands, which is more than 3 times as much as we think. Now, it's not cheap fuel, but it's cheating yourself because our citizen is going to pay for it in the fuel line and pay for it. At our minimum wage, the minimum wage would have to be $8,850 to buy 850 litres so that the citizen could get the same amount as the Dutch you said. Now, let's continue with the examples. Again, the Minister of Energy said that Britain had the most expensive electricity in Europe. He said the minimum wage in Turkey. Then in England, 4,450 kilowatts, with a minimum wage... Passing through, we ask, "Is this cheap electricity?" According to the energy minister's ability to buy from even countries he calls the most expensive, cheap Europe according to the purchase party. If you want to go to a factory, let's ask the industrialist, say, is electricity cheap, natural gas cheap? Or let's go to a fuel station, and ask the citizens, "Is the fuel cheap?" Let's go to our pensioner, ask him, "Is the picnic tube, kitchen tube, electricity cheap?" Let's go to our minimum wager's house, let's ask our citizen if the Minister has burned down what he calls a combo. Guys, we said black winter, it's black winter. Our citizen is afraid to burn the combo. What happened when you preached natural gas in the Black Sea? We're all happy together. And the good news came to him, and he was overtaken by an increase. Now, you haven't been able to fill up the gas tanks in our country, why? Because you didn't have a vision, you didn't make long-term agreements in time, we said eight or nine months ago, "Do the deals, the deal dates are coming." You didn't do it because you didn't have a vision, and now you're making the citizen pay for it. So, here's the question: will you give me a raise in New Year's? If you told me about the minimum wage, if you said so, the power to buy so much, you know, cheese, tomatoes, gasoline, oil, etc., you said, are you going to give me a raise or not? And don't you think that we've done this by looking into the eyes of the citizen? You're saying that this irrational explanation is not responding to our citizen. (CHEERING) Friends, there's a sacrifice here, and it's this nation that's making the sacrifice. (CHP clapping in rows) Because at these prices, it's a sacrifice. Stop sacrificing and explain why you're defending wrong and wrong. The central palace of waste suggests a reduction of the people's portions. The Minister of Energy is coming out as if he's mocking our citizen who can't light his combo. He says, "Turn down the bomb." A member of the AK PARTY says, "If necessary, we eat onion, bread." The other says, "We eat meat with a gram." Is that your policy? For God's sake, it's the nation, and it's the duty of power to comfort its citizens, to make sure that they live in prosperity and peace, to secure our children, our grandchildren, our future. The power is not to reduce the bread of a citizen, but to increase his flesh and vaccine. What mind, what logic does it have to do with the fact that the AK PARTY MPs or the authorities are talking about it? It's incredible. So, what does the AK PARTY do as a solution to these problems? Guys, that's a raise. (CHP clapping in rows) Why? Because if the AKP does, it'll only give him a raise. Look, you said it was good. You said it was a raise. You said it was a sacrifice. You said it was a persecution. Now, what happened with the raises? The economy didn't fly, the bills flew, our citizen paid the price. You wrote a book about the collapse of the economy, and 84 million of our citizens paid the price. Your vision is zero; you said in 2022, you said in 2023, you said in 2023, you said in 9,80, I came here, I don't know what happened. Now, maybe he's come to the 16th, past 15th, so who won? Here, you know best who wins from these differences, but we know who loses. The loser is our nation. In three years, electricity, natural gas, bread, and kitchen tubes have been folded to three. Whose income has increased, except for a handful of your allies? Our citizens have become poor with your policies, the nets are empty, the pots are empty, the wallets are empty. You've done a 200 percent increase in energy to industry, and our citizens are paying the price for it at the market, at the market, at the market, at the cost of life; it's shameful, it's a shame, it's a sin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, the energy policies of the EC PARTY are far from medium and long-term, far from planning. Your energy policies are not for the interests of our country and citizens, but for the interests of your allies. And what you call energy policy, is being more dependent on Russia, which you're addicted to, and also Russia, is determining your policies? The nuclear power plant -- 12.35 to 15,85 -- for fifteen years, the citizen will pay, the industrialist will pay, how will he handle it? Friends, there's no climate-changing management in your surrender policy. There's no action plan on the Paris Climate Agreement decisions. No target of zero emissions. There's no low-carbon economy plan. Always have, always have. But you've also named the green transformation, action can't be green transformation without a target, it can't be green transformation. What? There's addiction, there's addiction to fossil fuels, there's planning to sell TİASİ, BOTAŞ, and there's planning to sell Eti Mining. There's a trick to raise by not giving up 230 kilowatts of time that should be said to be.... under the name graded tariff. And then there's his dark stubbornness. Look, our children go to school with their eyes full of boogers and anxiety; our employees come out in the dark, return to their homes in the dark. Stop this stubbornness and stop this practice. Congressmans, let's tell you some of the energy policies we're going to make in our power. We're going to restore this unsustainable system that's inoperable, increasing energy bills. We will perform the low-carbon energy transformation in harmony with the Paris Climate Agreement. With electric vehicles, batteries and battery stations, we will provide Turkey's electric car transformation, electricity.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0402par0454	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0401par0455	We're going to develop climate change-oriented policies without blocking energy investments, not disrupting supply security. We will put energy efficiency at the top without thinking, as the Conqueror Bey said, "Turn down the bomb." The focus of our energy policies will be renewable energy and we will support it with our YECDES Project, which will support local and renewable energy. We'll make the green agreement for Turkey. We will prepare Turkey's low-carbon development strategy. We're going to promote and encourage energy co-op, create homes, neighborhoods, industry and trade sites that generate their own energy. It's going to be in the short term, and we're going to reduce the tax load, especially VAT, to reduce the bills right after the election. The receipts will be transparent. The natural gas found in the Black Sea will indeed bring good news to our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0402par0458	Thank you. Mr. Selman Ozboycı, MP of the Constabulary, has asked for a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Self-Resort.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0462	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on Article 3 of the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. On this occasion, I respectfully salute our General Assembly and our citizens watching from the beginning of the screens. WE have the honor of making a budget for the 20th time in the AK PARTY rulings. We give thanks to our beloved nation who gave us this authority. With the confidence of the AK PARTY, hopefully, we will continue to make more budgets together and offer every penny to the service of our citizens again. We've tried to explain where Turkey has been coming from in the eleven-day budget marathon with our MPs, our Group Vice Presidents, our ministers, as much as possible, but no matter how hard we try to explain it, the opposition doesn't see, doesn't speak, luckily, a God will approve. Our nation has seen, heard, and has appreciated our services for 19 years. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers speak of these meetings in the Gazi Parliament as if the opposition MPs from Adana, Mersin, and Niğde had come not from Ankara-Niğde Highway, but from the field road. Opposition representatives from Iconia, from Eskişehir, speak as if they were coming by the train, not by the train. Opposition MPs from Bursa to Istanbul speak as if they were still using the ferry, not the Osmangazi Bridge. Opposition lawmakers who flew here say they never used the largest airport in Europe and the newly built airports in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0404par0466	And you invented the plane.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0467	Speaking from art here, opposition MPs talk as if the Ataturk Cultural Centre in Istanbul was being given concerts in tents instead of CSO AdaEST in Ankara.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0405par0468	We set up the refinery, you don't buy gas. We set up the refinery, you don't buy gas, Selman, Ce-Ha-Pe's refinery! For God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0469	Speaking here, opposition representatives talk as if they're being held hostage in hospital hospitals with no money, not in hotel comfort and health care, but in a dump building with a doctor who can't be found.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0405par0470	We built the SECA, reading books, reading newspapers!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0471	Here, opposition representatives, parents, who talk about education, are concerned about buying textbooks early every year, they're getting tuition from college students, students are talking about 20-30 people, ward type, broken dorms.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0406par0472	There are classes of 60 in Iconia.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0473	Opposition representatives who talk about industry, technology, talk about Turkey being locked in the doors of aircraft factories, who can't even produce the flagpole's tire. There are opposition MPs here who talk about freedom and democracy, they have persuasion rooms at universities, poetry readers are going to jail, military custody is still on the line. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Praise be to God, we've skipped these old Turkish trailers, and we're moving forward at 2x speeds under the leadership of our President. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) In spite of everything, I believe that...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0407par0477	It's $15.70, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0478	...you actually like drones, SIHA, ATAK helicopters, smart transports, space moves, domestic automobiles, and a lot of other investments. Those of you who don't seem to like it, of course, but deep down, I'm sure you admire these services. Of course, I don't expect you to applaud them either, but when you look into your eyes, the men did it in an expression you're familiar with. I can hear you say that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has not been easy to come by these days. We've been through a lot together for 20 years with a popular leader. Traitors bombed our Veteran Assembly with the will of coup, martyred our heroic soldiers fighting terrorism, tried to stop our rise in economic operations over and over again. We've been pressured to give up on us in the blue country, and for many more, we've all been united, we've been able to produce for our beloved nation, we've continued to grow. Just as we've solved Turkey's chronic issues for the past nineteen years, as quickly as we've implemented the neglected need for infrastructure and infrastructure, just as we've built a Turkey. As we've built the new success story of the next 20 years, as well as our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan led by the Cumhur Alliance, together with the Cumhur Alliance. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, at the moment we're here today, we're faced with a structure that is fueled by the dream of power, using all kinds of dirty languages to achieve its goals, strategizing slander and lies, allowing all friendship in the pursuit of power. We will never give up our nation's course as the National Alliance moves behind closed doors on the route set by its secret friends. (AK PARTY) As the Cumhur Alliance, both our goals and our friends and our candidates are clear, but there is no goal, no friendship, no candidate, no conflict of interest.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0408par0483	The candidate is clear, in the election...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0409par0484	How did you get here? How did you get here, Selman? How did you get here?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0485	I can't interfere with who you're going to nominate, but I'll tell you who you're not going to be president of.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0408par0487	It's your call!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0488	There is no President who complains about his country with letters to foreign ambassadors. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The perpetrator of July 15th is not the President who says, "I will take the traitors back to the public with a KHK." (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) When our ships are in the Mediterranean, what are we doing in Libya? There is no President. (AK PARTY) When there are those who dream of a corridor of terror on the border of Turkey, there is no president who says no.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0410par0490	And not the ones who feed the followers!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0403par0491	Those who curse the relatives of the martyr are not the ones who remain silent, nor are there any presidents, nor are there any prime ministers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] When I end my words with these feelings and thoughts, as it has been for 20 years, and there's no stopping what we're going to say, I say move on, and I salute the General Assembly with respect and respect.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0410par0495	You've got three minutes. You've memorized it, memorized it. You've completed your trolling mission, your troll duty. You can sit down, you've completed your trolling, you can sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0411par0496	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0412par0497	Mr. President, I don't know what kind of procedure you're following, but I could use two minutes off the stand...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0411par0498	I follow the normal way, I do what the Charter commands. There's no deal, there's no law, there's a charter, I'm following it. If there's bullying behind each person's back, you can promise, you can evaluate at the end of each round, we'll be here until morning, friends.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0412par0499	Then I'll answer from the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0411par0500	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0412par0502	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's one thing I've been very careful about: when I'm responding to young lawmakers, especially young lawmakers -- we've experienced this with him before -- I'm more attentive to any member of parliament than I am to any of them. Although Selman later threw my last name in the middle of the night under the bottom of an animal, under the bottom of an animal, which disappoints me, but then he defends those who threw it away, but he would justify the reason to throw it away in the middle of the night, but I'd still have to stay in the middle of the night, and I wouldn't leave a young congressman here in the middle of the night.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0413par0504	I didn't throw it, I didn't do it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0412par0505	But they ask Selman, why do you fly from those bridges, from those airports?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0414par0507	Why are you including people's wives? How ugly, and ugly, and do not involve women in their talks.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0412par0508	If you say such a thing, none of these investments are made by Bilal Beyin, Burak Bey, not by selling the gold that is spent in the circumcision of Burak, but by all of us.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0414par0509	Women from CHP should also object. Why are you talking about your wife, the leader's wife? You can't talk about the politician's wife. Shame, shame.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0412par0510	Mr. Selman, if you say don't fly out of the airport. They tell you: "Then don't take gas from the refinerys of the Republican People's Party and put it in your car. The National Alliance doesn't talk behind closed doors, we talk about the same thing everywhere, but complain with the letter. When you tell the foreign ambassadors who complains about the main opposition, it's July 15th.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0415par0512	Thank you, Mr. Special, I promised not to pick on you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0412par0513	...when it comes to saying no to Tezkere, they remind you of the arguments you called no three times during your opposition. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0415par0516	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0517	Mr. President, I'd like to speak openly of my name, and I'd like to talk to you about teasing me because it's a taunt.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0415par0518	What's the matter with Mr. Special, Mr. Self-Strength?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0417par0519	What did I say?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0520	I have to tell Selman. He said.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0417par0521	No, what did I say?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0418par0522	You said "tweet."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0523	He claimed I threw it away, even though I didn't throw it away.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0419par0524	You're saying there's been an ordeal about Tweet, and I promise you, without taunting him to explain it. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0527	Thank you, my precious President. Our Precious Group Vice President, Free Special, has already stated that we've spoken on the phone several times after an incident, but I believe he didn't do it on purpose. I didn't throw that kind of tweet, I didn't throw any of your last names, you remember wrong. (APPLAUSE) Last time you said my name before you mentioned my name around here, I didn't throw it at you, there was definitely no insult to me in my case, since you pointed out that I was going to sue you for something I said I didn't approve of. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] One, two, I don't think he's mean, but if he reads the transcripts, so will Mr. Free, Vice President of the Precious Group, why do you ever get on a plane in my speech, why do you use airports?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0420par0531	They talk like they don't. You said.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0532	No, I said: you talk like you never use it. It's like all the highways, tunnels, bridges, airports were never built, and you never used them...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0420par0533	Well, what's he gonna do, what's he gonna do, what's he gonna do?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0534	But why wasn't it done before?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0420par0535	No, no, what should he do?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0536	Why weren't these done during your administrations? [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Anyway, before I got more picky, as I said again, I never said, "Why do you use airplanes, why do you use airports?" I just wanted to say that you're ignoring the benefits of the country, the benefits of the nation, and you're not hearing them, and you're not talking about them, and you're ignoring the blessings you're using yourself. One last sentence: I mean, every time we come here, we do politics, obviously we don't share the same views-- dealing with the person... I don't think it's appropriate for you to talk about the wife of our president, who has nothing to do with this.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0421par0541	I said, what am I going to eat, that he sold his bracelets?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0416par0542	That doesn't look good. We haven't said a word about your president's wife here. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0421par0545	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0422par0546	Nothing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0423par0547	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0421par0548	Mr. President, I want it for the same reason. He remembered my name, and it's like I said something I didn't say.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0422par0549	No teasing, no teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0424par0550	What did he say, Mr. President? Mr. Free, what did he say?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0425par0552	He's dealing with the witness. He said, "Mr. Bulent." Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0426par0554	Mr. President, first of all, Mr. Selman...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0427par0555	He picked on me again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0426par0556	... It quotes a............ "Be patient with the young ones," he says. When I saw her, I saw that she was under the special... There's a curse called "silence." I said, "Selman, does it look good?" He says, "I didn't throw that tweet away, I quoted the person who posted the tweet and defended our friend." That's exactly the point. Second: You have just said that time was short; you say: "You voted no in the fight against terror." In November 2001, you voted "No" for Afghanistan, "No" for the North Iraqi thesis in December 2001, and in June 2002 for the North Iraqi thesis of Justice and Development Party Group. If it's not treason that's given to those officials, it's no one's right, Mr. Selman, not to support the Republican People's Party in the fight against terrorism or to taunt them with other implications. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It is also a grave mistake and a shame to describe all KHK people as trying to commit a treasonous coup on July 15th, when the CHP also said that they would extradite those who were not followed, tried or acquitted or prosecuted. But let's just say that it's unconscionable to defend the person who is involved in the coup, the person who finances the coup, the person who finances the coup, the person who is supposed to be involved in the coup, the person who is later acquitted, the person who has invested money. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0428par0562	Mr. President, again, he said something about a tweet I didn't throw out.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0426par0563	You threw it away, you threw it away.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0428par0564	No, man, that's not my tweet.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0426par0565	You threw it away, you quoted it, it was written on the bottom.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0428par0566	No, it's not there.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0429par0567	Show me, then. Let's see.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0426par0568	I'll see what I can do.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0428par0569	Mr. President mentioned the wrong thing again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0430par0570	I'm trying to hear you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0428par0571	I'll try to explain: he mentioned the wrong thing again, and I didn't throw it like that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0430par0572	Let me put it this way: Since you have an explanation, I'll give you my word for a minute in your place.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0431par0573	No, the taunts are according to 69.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0430par0574	Let's get this over with in a minute. Let's get this over with.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0432par0575	Look, he answered from the podium, even though I didn't just pick on him. I won't be picking on you again, I promise.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0430par0576	But there's no bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0433par0577	I do.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0434par0578	He twists his words, twists his words.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0435par0579	He's saying what I'm saying wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0436par0580	Both sides explained how it happened, you explained it twice on the stand, and Mr. Ozgur explained it twice.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0437par0581	Mr. President, Mr. Special has just stated that Mr. Selman's speech has come in a different way, and he wants to talk about bullying. But Mr. Special insists on the existence of the tweet thrown, as was his first speech. There's an impression here that our congressman is lying. Well, let's let Mr. Special talk about it, let him find the "tweet" there... our congressman says there's no such thing. Brother, he quoted it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0438par0583	I'm saying I didn't do it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0437par0584	I didn't do it, he says.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0439par0585	Mr. Elitaş, you've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0437par0586	And you're making it up in kindness, and he doesn't say it. (Manisa) In the middle of the night, we spoke, and it was wrong. Excuse me. No, look.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0440par0589	Two friends say "tweet" got kicked out.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0437par0590	No, look, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0440par0591	The guy's not just saying "tweet," he's saying something.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0437par0592	Mr. President, you know the bullying from the stand...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0441par0593	I didn't say it was wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0440par0594	Come, dear brother, come. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You have two minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0598	Mr. Free, you're on the phone, but... No, no, I was gonna ask for "tweet."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0443par0600	He's running a "tweet."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0601	Oh, okay. Well, look, I'm telling you again, when we talked that night, I was wrong to throw away this tweet. I didn't say that or anything. Okay, show me, brother.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0444par0603	Here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0604	Look, I said that I don't approve of this "tweet" you're being made, and I don't approve of it, but I find it wrong for you to point out a young brother. My "tweet" is all about that, it's all about that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0444par0605	No...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0606	No, there's absolutely no insult to you on my tweet. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I didn't say photos. Mr. Free, I didn't quote him, you're wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0445par0610	Mr. Special, you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0611	I didn't quote that. Look, I'll say it again. Look, I threw this tweet because it was wrong to insult you, to abuse your last name, but you were wrong to target a young politician, to appeal to the prosecution, to take care of our brother.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0446par0612	What's the matter with your brother, big brother?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0613	You see, there's absolutely no insult to you in that tweet I'm quoting. Secondly...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0447par0615	There's no such thing in the quote.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0616	One more thing, I'm sorry, there's one more thing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0448par0617	Mr. Free didn't throw it away.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0618	Look, you keep saying: "I'm going to rehir the people of the KHK." Read the transcripts. I didn't say that. I said, "I'm going to re-publicize the KHK people. Why are you being offended?" I didn't say that to the CHP. But I didn't tell the CHP people, I didn't show one of them an address.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0449par0619	Anyone who's hurt gets hurt.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0620	▪ It is not the President who does this. Guys, that doesn't make it President. I mean, that's all I meant.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0450par0621	You aim directly at the National Alliance and write back, and now you're packing it up?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0622	I say again: Look, I keep my peace, I think I can express myself without teasing; I ask you to keep the same calm. I wish for convenience. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I didn't say anything. I read my script.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0451par0626	Look at the text again, Selman, and look again, and you say that the People's Alliance doesn't have it, it doesn't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0442par0627	Yeah, I'll show you the script. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0452par0628	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0453par0629	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0452par0630	I'd like to exercise my right to answer both the part about the president and the part about the tweet.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0453par0631	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0454par0632	You have the right to answer, the right to answer. The right to answer is used, not without teasing. I'll take the right to answer. He says, "You give without teasing."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0453par0634	I'm gonna ask you how to run it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0455par0635	He's gonna ask you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0456par0636	Mr. Free, you're going to be President General...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0455par0637	No, shame on you, I don't do that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0456par0638	Enough, we talked about it, but we got it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0457par0639	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0455par0640	Mr. President, first of all, I showed him that one of the two tweets was made using my name, one of the names of one of the two. Secondly, someone put an animal name on the back of my last name, filed a criminal complaint against someone who started his work on him. We take care of the young, we stand by the youth in front of the Free Special. There's the tweet, and one night he said on the phone that he didn't own it. And then, if you're going to do a policy here, if you're going to do an honest policy, you're going to stand by it. You're going to sing a lot of our president's words one by one, and you're going to build a rhetorical one there, and you're going to say, "There's no President, there's no President, his name is Kemal." It's not because his last name ends with a U, it's not because he says it's hot to the sun. There's all of them, and I'm going to release the July 15 coupkers. When we're on trial about the KHK people and we don't have a statement other than the extradition of the acquitted and the untraceable, Kemal Bey will string up 10 things that he says every day and release the attackers in between. Why do you say that? Nine of the ten things you say are Kemal Bey's, if you put it in and say the same braid, you either stand behind the word like a lion, or you'll do it in reverse like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0458par0646	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0459par0647	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0460par0648	Mayor, this has gone far enough.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0461par0649	Mr. President!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0462par0650	Mr. President!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0463par0651	Mr. Special just brought me the subject of a tweet from his own phone. I showed it to him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0461par0652	Mr. President, let's get out of here! That's enough, man! Either these get out or we get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0463par0653	However, there's a difference between what he's shown and what he's explaining here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0461par0654	Let's get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0464par0655	That's enough!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0463par0656	He made me look like Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit04spe0465par0658	Mr. Elitaş, they're seeing each other now. Let's end this here, and let them do something between themselves. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0465par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the discussions of the 2020 Central Management Competitive Accounting Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The commission is in place. Now I'll meet your demands on behalf of the individuals. The first statement is from Mr. Müslüm Yüksel. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0466par0013	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on my own behalf on Article 3 of the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. On this occasion, I salute your delegation and the Veterans Assembly, wishing that the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 was good for our country and our nation. As you know, we'll be finishing the budget negotiations we started on December 6th as of tomorrow. I wish our budget would be a blessing for our government and our nation. From November 3, 2002, when the EC PARTI took power, with the support of our nation, it handled many of our country's chronic issues, took bold risks, and resolved many problems as a result of very important, diligent work. Budgets have been used as effective tools for all gains achieved during the EC PARTY administrations. In addition to infrastructure investments, such as transport, agriculture and energy, the financial area established under budget discipline is directed towards social development, particularly education, health and social benefits. The 2022 budget will be presented to our nation with a solution at the point of resolving problems, taking into account the needs of all sectors, including workers, tradesmen, civil servants, farmers, pensioners, students, investors and industrialists. As servants of our nation, we will continue our work without slowing down in the determination and determination to serve according to the sensitivities of our nation. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the EC PARTI has established a major process of development and change in our country, despite any obstacles to its country and its nation's service -- from education to health, justice to safety, energy to agriculture, from transport, from economy to social life, democracy to human rights. Every step we take as EC PARTY governments is for the future of our country, peace and prosperity of our nation. We will continue to work hard to entrust our Republic with a strong democracy to future generations. We're going to continue to build projects, to build investments, to develop our country with every inch of land, to increase the welfare of every member of our nation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Gaziantep's rescue from enemy occupation on December 25th, which I am honored and proud to represent. The Gaziantepians wrote this glorious epic at the cost of martyring about a quarter of the city's population at that time, despite the harsh conditions and very limited resources in the city. In the case of the Antepians, it is the rest of the country that is the rest of the country. The Antep War, which he fought with faith and faith, was an example to our nation and to our nation, who loved freedom, and was honored by our Veteran Assembly by the title of "Gazilik" and the title of "Resultional Medal." The Gaziantep defense, which has written its name in gold in history on this glorious day, in the struggle for independence fought by Turkey, is the best proof of what Gaziantep can do for the independence and honor of the Gazianteps. On this occasion, I celebrate the 100th anniversary of the liberation of our veteran city from enemy occupation, and remember all of our martyrs and veterans with mercy and gratitude, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who fought his lifeline for the unbreakable integrity of our Gaziantep, and our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I end my words, I wish our budget of 2022 to be good for our country and our nation, thank you to our Treasury and Finance Minister, our precious ministers and bureaucrats, our President and members of the Plan and Budget Commission, our beloved nation and yours.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0467par0021	On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr. Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0468par0023	Dear people, take a good look at this photo. Last week, when the Minister of Justice was here, we asked many questions about the Garibe Gezer. He couldn't answer a single word, and what we saw after this prison that lost his life in prison was incredible, and we saw no practices that could fit into humanity or fit into any religion. The police were sending the funeral body to the province hospital. They were not given a funeral vehicle in Mardin. Dear friends, it's neither human nor religious, but they did it. Look, in his letter to his lawyer, Garibe Gezer says: "I attempted suicide, yes, but they care about us after we're dead and they're investigating the injustices that have been done to us." Let me tell you something to Yunus Emre. Those who say that a Garib is dead are in trouble. Since Jonah's time, you have not finished the strangest and strangest, including you, the political authorities in this land. My dear Ahmet Kaya says that whatever he did, they went after him. / They narrowed down the blue sky. Dear friends, a state shouldn't have to corner its citizens so much, but they're squeezing it, it's going on. The Minister of Justice, not the Minister of Justice, is the minister of zulumat. Abdulrezak Shuyur was sick, had cancer, died in Şakran Prison; Halil Sun was in Diyarbakır Prison; his executions were not postponed; he had cancer of years; they were both released from the coffin. Salih Tuğrul, on his deathbed, died a day or two later in his home. I don't call it the Ministry of Justice, I call it the Minister of Justice, and look, your power is not the Party of Justice and Development, but the Party of Opposition and Evil. Look, there's a lot of torture claims, E. A. A police officer named Abdulkadir Türkyılmaz has tortured a person in Ankara with his friends, including putting a baton in a makada, and air-diving him three times. We wanted this investigated in the House, where else would I want it investigated? Parliament told me there was violence and hurtful statements. How can people talk about torture? I didn't add a word, but that's the kind of council you guys have, I can't believe it. Look, what else is there? We have such a Speaker who forges official documents, the President of this House. When my legislature was down, when the General Assembly went to the HDP meeting room, my friends and I filed a report saying that we'd issued illegal slogans, and he had 10 police officers sign them under the empty report. They picked me up here and rushed me to the police station, and within an hour, it turned out that the Speaker's report was a fake, and the liar didn't even burn until midnight, and within an hour he smoked. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, what kind of Parliamentary office would that be? I'm living it! How can he be such a Speaker? How could there be such a coven? There's a budget in a council like this? It's a cheap budget, and I'm not talking about it. Your persecutions don't end, and I don't say the party of oppression and evil for nothing. Do you know who this is? Two and a half years ago, a man who was abducted and probably killed -- our friends have told us so many times -- Joseph Bilge Bronzec, Saturday's version of their mother's state of the state. Dozens of people have been kidnapped, tortured, and these people can't be found, and it's horrible, and we've been telling you over and over again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0469par0030	Remember the Gara martyrs, the Gara martyrs? Do you remember Samih Özbeyi, Semih Özbeyi? They kidnapped him for five years and eventually martyred him!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0470par0031	What do you object to, Mrs. Oznur? What do you object to? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0469par0032	Who took him?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0470par0033	We don't know!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0471par0034	Look, look at this document; look, this document is an empty document. Do you know what Mr. Ali Babacan said? Not a single member of the AK PARTY in this House has been able to answer that. When the Turkish Cypriots were signed, the ministers were signed under blank papers. He said, "One of you has not been able to make a statement."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0472par0036	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0471par0037	We've just discussed the matter of the KHK; the KHK is persecution, the ministers have signed under blank papers, it's genocide, which means condemning hundreds of thousands of people to civilian death. That's why you're an evil party. It's not over, we've been critical of the Chinese government's practices of the PATI-MHP opposition alliance here for three years. There's a Republic Alliance that doesn't talk about the genocide of the Chinese government and its exploiting and slaughtering of those people. Me and my friends were so well-intentioned that we were criticizing it. Turns out, this AK PARTI-MHP Community Alliance wanted to be like China, trying to be like that colonial understanding of China, that idea of genocide, trying to be like the understanding that crushes workers and exploits them. Why don't we criticize China in good faith...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0473par0038	You!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0471par0039	Now that the truth has come out, your true face has become known as the party of oppression and evil.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0474par0041	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0475par0042	Motive?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0476par0043	Motive?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0044	My president didn't ask for the motive because he knew you were insulting him. Since Mr. President knows the insult exists...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0478par0045	The motive is obvious; it's a lie, it's an insult.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0479par0046	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0047	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, who just spoke here, have insulted the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Secretary. He has identified himself as a cruel person, saying that he is a party of the wicked and the wicked who do not reflect the truth. As the AK PARTY Group, we don't accept any of these non-responsive claims. If there are wrong-doers, let him look for them in his own body.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0480par0048	Yeah, four people died this week, four in prison.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0049	It has been revealed from the Justice and Development Party Charter, which has been in power for 19 years and has been striving to serve the nation, and from its actions, the citizens of every chest have registered it, and have declared what they have done.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0480par0050	Where is Yusuf wise Bronze, Mr. Elitaş, and where is Yusuf Bilge Bronze? ▪
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0481par0051	You fired him not guilty, but he stood up for the rights on these stand again, saying, "You're wrong."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0052	Mr. President, you see, he called lawmakers directly towards the AK PARTY group, members of the zulumat party. You people are cruel........ Look, in the 160th article of our Civil Code, we have to use harsh and hurtful words and act...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0482par0054	You do it every day, every day!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0055	You didn't ask me why you called me to the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0482par0056	You do it every day!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0057	I assume you didn't ask because it was both offensive and hurtful.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0483par0058	Where's the insult? It's not like that anymore.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0059	I'm the second joke of the 160th article from our esteemed President... and in the 161st article, it is a matter which requires the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President, the President, the President of the Court, the Vice President, and the MP to be defamed of their duties.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0483par0060	Well, we'll tape our mouths, you sit here and talk; there's no need to do anything!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0477par0061	I'd like to offer our president's compliments, and I'd like to express my insistence on that attitude.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0484par0063	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0485par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0486par0065	Mr. President, there's an insult to me, and I want to speak of the bench.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0484par0066	Excuse me for a second.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0485par0067	Mr. President, we were accused together, sir, we were bullied together.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0484par0068	Yes, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0485par0070	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, do not accept the issues expressed by this HDP MP, we strongly reject them. The alliance of the National Movement Party and the Justice and Development Party, the Cumhur Alliance, its goals, its goals, its purpose, its intentions, is a clear union, its sides. Here is the Justice and Development Party, and here is the National Movement Party. Under the circumstances, the Cumhur Alliance is an alliance of virtue; moral, public, transparent, in a situation where the citizens still have no idea what the structures outside of Turkey are. At this point, our nation has no doubts or concerns. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Secondly, the National Movement Party, HDP, has remembered the Uygur Turks for any reason or if something has occurred to you about them, it does not have to support HDP (HDP) or act with it. The National Movement Party has always stood by the rights and interests of Eastern Turkicism from before; it has acted with them in many matters, including life and rights of life, all the way from our Basbug, Alparslan Turkesh.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0487par0073	Your partner has banned the actions of the Uygur Turks.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0485par0074	Because of China, we don't look at East Turkistan, according to China, nor do we look at East Turkistan because the United States and the EU and the United Nations remember it; we look at East Turk because he is a Muslim Turk, and we act on what we think is right and interests of them as the Nationalist Movement Party. That's our policy. The National Movement Party continues its politics in this policy, in its own way, as a party that dominates its agenda. That's all I have to say.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0488par0078	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0489par0079	We have hundreds of conversations in these General Assembly transcripts!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0490par0080	Mr. President, I've been called a tyrant, I want a say, I've been called a martyr, I want a say in the bench.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0488par0081	Now, Mr. Gergerlioglu, you just said the same words, I promised Mr. Elitaş. Since you thought the same words were an insult and thought you were insulted, you made a promise, and I promise you, right now, let's wrap it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0490par0083	First of all, for two and a half years, the AK PARTI-MHP Cumhur Alliance failed to keep its promise when President Erdoğan went to China on July 2019. I'm not talking in the head, you don't even know it; I'm telling the MPS, they don't even know it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0491par0084	We'll find out from you what we know or what we don't!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0490par0085	Look, how long has Turkey been failing to keep its promise? Come in! You just don't know.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0492par0086	Don't shout!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0490par0087	For two and a half years, Turkey's government has not visited the concentration camps in China, it can't because it doesn't want to mess things up with the Chinese government, it wants to be like China. I speak frankly, I speak with knowledge, I speak with the document, I do not speak with the eunuch. To me, Turk, Kurd, I don't care about human beings; I'm hurt by genocide against the Uygur Turks, like all my friends.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0493par0089	What document?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0494par0090	Put the document in the middle, the document!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0490par0091	Don't yell at me. And let me tell you, you're the people who got me kicked out of this House to shut me up. I'm a person who's been expelled from my 27-year-old medical life for speaking the law. I didn't stop, I didn't stop, I said the same words, I said peace, human rights; here you expelled me from my position, expelled me from the House, and framed me. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) He is your Minister of Justice, your minister of persecution, your Speaker of Parliament who forged that official document, and I call upon that minister of crime to resign from this place. They can't be the minister of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0495par0095	If you split, you're out!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0496par0096	Are you threatening me or threatening me?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0497par0097	Shut up, shut up!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0496par0098	Are you threatening us? We'll do it again. He says!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0498par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0499par0101	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0498par0102	Mr. President, as I have just read, this is the second time he has insulted the Speaker of the House.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0500par0103	Are you threatening us?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0501par0104	Shut up, shut up!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0498par0105	In accordance with Article 3 of the Turkish Parliament's Council of the National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0502par0106	If you split, you're out!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0503par0107	You didn't? You didn't do that?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0504par0108	Now, Mr. Elitaş didn't insult the Speaker, he said the Speaker was a fraud. Counterfeit...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0505par0109	What did he say? HOW'S THAT? Isn't that insulting, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0506par0112	Isn't the ministry of persecution an insult?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0507par0113	The Speaker will take the minutes on him, make the necessary legal action.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0505par0114	Mr. President, look, he's the case.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0507par0115	Yeah, it's a case.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0508par0116	It's obvious the report was a fake.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0509par0117	You can't accept someone who's paying for his honor!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0510par0118	But we have an internal charter.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0511par0119	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0510par0120	Mr. President, he can do the case, and legally, he can do the right thing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0511par0121	Mr. Elitaş, you've been a fraud here. No one's been punished or condemned. I just...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0510par0122	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but if I make such an accusation, won't you punish me?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0511par0123	Sir?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0510par0124	If I were to make such an accusation...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0511par0125	The story isn't right, I admit it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0510par0126	Mr. President, look, the Speaker...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0512par0127	Yeah, they're still talking!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0513par0128	Yeah, the report's fake, right? Fake. The report is fake, what are you defending?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0514par0129	You're the fake!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0513par0130	Fake!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0515par0131	You will not tolerate insult to the Speaker. You're occupying the seat of the Speaker. Protecting his rights, his law is one of your most important duties.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0516par0132	Your Speaker can't answer a false report.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0513par0133	We got out of here without saying anything. Fake report!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0517par0134	Congressmans, I can't hear, I can't hear Elitas. Okay, I will, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0518par0136	Because, Mr. President, insulting that office right now...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0519par0137	Well, for God's sake, it's people's fault; what does it have to do with authority?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0520par0138	It's an insult to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0518par0139	...in the eyes of the President of Parliament, it is equal to insulting you and the members of the Presidential Court. So, please, I urge you to implement this Civil Code 161/3.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0521par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0522par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0523par0142	I'll make a promise to Mr. Akçay. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0522par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. The speaker was just talking about the year 2019, and he made a number of taunts, such as you don't know. I'll tell you this: In the 27th term, during the 26th term, 25, 24, 23rd period, the Nationalist Movement Party Group has always voiced the inhuman cruelty of China to the Uygur Turks, and the House records have witnessed it. Of course, he doesn't know because he's been here for the last semester, and since he's been here for the past few years... these reports from 2019, 2020, 2021, he's been talking about this without knowing it. In that sense, I found that explanation necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0524par0147	Well, thank you. Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0525par0149	I don't suppose you're going to promise me anything on the stand, so let me talk from here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0524par0150	Yes, I'll give it to you at your place. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0525par0152	Mr. President, thank you. In fact, no one has ever been punished in this House on the basis of fraud or persecution. How and for what purpose these concepts are used and infrastructure is important. What did our congressman, our clerk, say? The report prepared by the Parliament's presidency was false. He said, "I say it's unreal." Because I was there.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0526par0154	We were all there.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0525par0155	I walked from here to the group, not a single slogan, not a sound, and we have video footage. We released the video footage an hour later and called on the Speaker to correct it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0527par0156	He didn't give any explanation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0525par0157	No explanation has been made. Mr. President, the other, the concepts of oppression and cruelty are the most commonly used concepts in politics. What is it? Evil, cruelty, illegality, injustice... now I'm really amazed at how this is connected to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0528par0160	You're amazed at everything.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0529par0161	Yeah, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0525par0162	Much heavier concepts are used by the ruling group itself and all the other groups -- of course, within the limits of political discipline -- is a method of criticism. The other, they didn't say the opposite of one word that our congressman said; the only thing they object to is the opposition he said to power was the zulum and the evil party. A lot of different things have been said to the Justice and Development Party or to our party or to other parties, and for that to happen, a punishment has not even been discussed. I'd actually like to discuss what our congressman said. So, this funeral didn't happen yesterday? He's out, he's out of prison. Didn't this funeral come up? Salih Tuğrul was buried in Siirt. Didn't this funeral come out of prison? He's out. Is this Joseph Wise Bronze missing?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0529par0165	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0525par0166	I'm finishing, Mr. President, and I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0529par0167	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0525par0168	This has been missing for two and a half years. I'm not saying you did, and neither did our congressman. Why isn't it found? Why doesn't the government of this country find a missing person, like Gulistan Doku, who still lives on Saturdays -- like in the 90s? Why doesn't the Home Secretary find it? Didn't Garibe Gezer say he committed suicide in prison? Yeah, he didn't even answer here! A young woman died in prison, a funeral. If it's not cruelty, then what is it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0529par0170	Yes, thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0530par0172	Mr. President, I'm going to say very briefly that I find it unconscionable to keep ourselves out of this discussion. It's not a warning, it's not a reprimand, it's an extraction. We're all in a law-making place, we're all guided by law; if there's a claim against law, there'll be a trial. The Supreme Court appointed by the Constitution said: "It is illegal to terminate the parliamentary position of Ömer Faruk Gergerlioglu. " He spent six days in prison with your votes, and you think he's guilty, and if you have a conscience, you will not come and demand such a thing. Fear God! Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0531par0174	You made it, you made it, so make it lawful.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0530par0175	Because of you, man, you voted unfairly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0531par0176	Way to go, way to go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0532par0177	Yeah, but it is, it is.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0533par0178	You put me in a dungeon, and now you throw me out of the House again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0534par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0535par0180	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0534par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm having trouble understanding Mr. Special. First of all, it was the court that convicted Gergerlioğlu, who interpreted Gergerlioğlu's trial differently and returned him to parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0536par0183	One is the highest court.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0537par0184	Your courts.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0538par0185	You did it, you did it!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0539par0186	The decision you liked was beautiful, the decision you didn't like was bad.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0540par0187	Who put their hands on the counter, us?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0539par0188	Look, our Civil Code is our constitution, and we need to do it within the framework of this constitution. Otherwise, if everyone is to go to trial, there will be no need for the provisions, and there will be no need for them in our Civil Code. Secondly, what is it that turns their backs on children who don't hear the voice of their mothers in Diyarbakir and take them to the mountain? [[AK PARTI and MHP clapping from HDP rows]] Today, I just told you on the stand an hour ago, what is it to be cruel to put your back to the PKK terrorist organization that slaughtered 40,000 Kurds?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0541par0193	Either you're in power, find it, you're in power, find it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0542par0194	Finish it, Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0539par0195	I repeat: what is a 9-year-old Kurdish boy who tries to smuggle his children into the mountains and raise them, not a tyrant who turns his eyes to the tears of those mothers? (AK PARTY) The person here who did not say a word about cruelty to the terrorist organization in the fight to protect this country, the 251 martyrs lost their lives on July 15th, refers to it as "the oppressors" and "albums" who did not say a word about it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0543par0196	What did they want and you didn't give them? You gave me everything.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0539par0197	Look, Dear President, those who live on the back of people who have been murdered, victimized, murdered while saying something can't accuse us of cruelty in matters of law. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0544par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0545par0201	Mr. Beştaş, I think...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0544par0202	I'm so sorry, but with his direct order of events, not just to our deputy, but to our group, to all of us, to accuse us of cruelty, to speak of bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0545par0203	Generally speaking, Mr. Beştaş, I'm going ahead, sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0544par0204	Mr. President, please, this is a very important discussion, and I want to talk to you about teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0545par0205	I want to go on, now...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0544par0206	Mr. President, please. He's clearly been picking on me here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0546par0207	But, I mean, it took him almost two minutes to get the word "Zazim" to him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0545par0208	I gave it to you, didn't I?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0546par0209	He attacked our group.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0547par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0545par0211	Didn't I promise the most? I did. I think it's enough. There was no new bullying, that's the way people usually say it. He said, he drew a general definition.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0547par0212	Then can I file a report from my place?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0545par0213	Have a seat.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0547par0214	Criticize us for once. I'm telling you calmly, if we as Home Secretary or Minister of Justice or as a party in power are causing death from the prison, criticize us. If we're in custody, tortured in prisons, and we're in power, you can call us critics and tyrants and you can say whatever you want.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0545par0215	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0548par0216	You were sticking your back out to those who slaughtered 40,000 Kurds, what would you do if God didn't show you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0547par0217	If we rule the nation with the congregation for decades and then declare them a terrorist organization and get out of the way, call us zizalim. There's no politics like this.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0548par0218	What do you do when the oppressors of 40,000 Kurds are in power?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0549par0219	Don't worry, this country hasn't seen or seen worse than you have. There's nothing worse than you!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0550par0220	Who's responsible for the killing of 53 citizens by inviting them to the street?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0551par0221	Who told the YPG that we had our backs on the PYD? Who was it? It was you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0552par0222	The distance between you and ISIS is 1 km.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0553par0223	Where did they kill Baghdad, and where did they kill Baghdad? Answer me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0554par0224	Who invited you to the street in October 6th? You are responsible for the deaths of 53 citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0553par0225	There were five miles, and five miles between you and the vineyard.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0555par0227	Thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] We're gonna do a ten-minute question-and-answer procedure. Yes, Your Excessive...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0556par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish our country and our nation the best of the budget for the year 2022. Our president, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, under the strong leadership of the EC PARTI, has been reduced to 80 per cent of our defence industry's external dependence on domestic and national projects every day, and today the locality rate has reached 80 per cent. In this way, Turkey became a game-changing actor who began to make room for itself in the global arms market, and more importantly, because of its weapons systems, it gained superiority in conflict zones. I congratulate all who have done so, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0555par0237	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0557par0238	Mr. President, in secondary school, the number of vocational high schools must be increased. In vocational upper secondary schools, vocational programmes are to be opened. Technique programmes should also be launched on agriculture and animalism. The vocational upper secondary schools should co-operate with the industry, graduate graduates as technicians ready to take part in the field of applied education and training. The universities of applied sciences should also open a program according to the need. A new programme should not be opened in areas that do not need to be opened; the quotas of existing higher schools must be determined by the planning of manpower. The educational quality of vocational upper secondary schools must be improved, completed in cooperation with the relevant sectors and give graduates ready for office. In higher education, there have been setbacks during the epidemic. Facing courses, practices have not been conducted, thesis, homework have not been completed; young people who fail their thesis should be allowed to return to their schools and complete their studies, except for those who fail through terrorism.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0555par0239	Mr. Keven...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0558par0240	As part of transport training, the tender for our delivery shop is held every year in June. So the finances are being determined and the fuel prices of those dates are being taken into account. For example, in June this year's tender and contract, the engine went from $7.45 to 40 per cent, up to 10.44 TL, as of today. Our van owner, who is a school mover for increasing costs, is having a hard time. And in Yozgat, the van driver who was also a school mover in education, is in great distress, and many of them are thinking of selling their vans if they continue like this. In order for these trades to survive immediately, the price difference must be updated or supported by the driver's business, otherwise you will destroy this sector. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0555par0242	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0559par0243	Mr. Secretary, the AKP said the subcontractor is out of the public, but it's not over. Subcontractors working on highways, hospitals, PTTs are still undermining the AKP's commitment to staff before the 2018 general elections. City employees, rental car drivers, HBYS I.T. employees, road workers, cafeteria, dental prosthetic imaging, radiology imaging, sterilization workers, 4 December victim Joker workers, still waiting for a 70 per cent staff. What's wrong with these people? Why didn't you keep your promise? And there's a full-time contract staff waiting in public, so why don't you give them a staff?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0555par0244	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0560par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, $4,250 for minimum wagers, $4,330 for married people, 4,391 for those with children, 4,450 for those with two children, and $4,532 for those with 3 children. In the same way, our pensioners, pensioners, pensioners, and agricultural pensioners, who have been retired from the BUG-KUR, especially under the minimum wage, demand that their salaries be increased to the minimum wage of our citizens, and wish them success in their new mission, with respect.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0555par0248	Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0561par0249	Thank you, Mayor. We're completing the budget process. Millions of poor laborers' expectations have been ignored by the crime alliance of the palace, they've done Hamasi shows, they have no cure. For them, their home is their couches, their cash registers, their dollars, their palaces dipped in gold water. While those who feed on blood, public hostility fill their pockets, they advise the people to be tested by hunger with religion, faith, homeland literature. It's shameless, it's shameless. In the squares and here we will continue to cry out the truth to the faces of the criminals, and we will cry out, and we will unite against fascism to establish free, democratic public power.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0562par0251	Hold on, hold on.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0563par0252	You're such a cheap guy. You're so cheap.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0564par0253	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0254	Sir, thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to give you some information on the minimum wage. By the way, we thank our fellow workers. Because I've only got one trick, I've got no other number, which is kind of an old trick; it's locked, thanks and prayers. (AK PARTY and MHP rows) Thank and thank you, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0566par0256	Well, no one's thanking me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0567par0257	We don't expect you, we don't expect you to thank us.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0258	From him, we do what's necessary, and we take every precaution, both in financial conditions and without undermining our budget. We'll continue our services. At the same time, our employers are getting some really good greeting messages.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0566par0260	I want your phone, your phone.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0261	They say thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0568par0262	Can you live on $4,250, Mr. Secretary? Live for a month at $4,250.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0569par0263	Don't read Gazel, listen!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0264	We will have COBI, we will have friends from the great business world, thanks to them, let them exist. As long as they exist, we will continue to serve under the leadership of our President, along with the EC PARTY and our partner. Dear friends, I'd like to make a comparison, if I may. Berlin, a minimum wage rate of 1,969 euros, downtown... excuse me, minimum wage is 1,585 euros in downtown Berlin, a rent in Berlin, 1.969 euros, 124 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0570par0266	Oh, my God! I swear it's a lie.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0571par0267	Tell me how many people get minimum wage.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0268	There are 1,701 euros in Amsterdam, 2,622 euros in rent, 2,750 euros in Paris with a minimum wage of 1,555 euros in Paris, 1.110 euros in Madrid, 1.579 euros minimum wage, 775 euros in Lisbon, 1.625 euros in Athens, 779 in the city.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0571par0269	Are they eating dry bread, too, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0270	Our new fee for Turkey is $4,253.40, our average rent in the city is $1,261 Turkish lira.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0572par0271	Find a place in Istanbul for $1,250, Mr. Secretary, not $1,250! No henhouses for $1,250, chicken coop! No henhouses!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0571par0272	Ankara doesn't even have those prices.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0273	Bread in Berlin is 1,210, bus in the city is 528, bread can be bought in Turkey at 2.335 minimum wage. The city bus can buy 1,335 and bread 1,130 in Madrid, while 739 bottles of water can buy 739 in Turkey and 739 bus buses in the city. In Paris, the bread was taken 793 times, while the bottle of water was bought 823 times, and the bus in the city was bought 818 times, and Turkey was 1.335 times.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0571par0274	Your government has ended the social state.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0275	That's the minimum wage comparison, so...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0573par0276	Yeah, well, don't go that far.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0277	I'm not the source, sir. We're not the source.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0574par0278	Turkey also has a rental house for 30,000 liras.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0575par0279	And count the social audit services.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0280	He's got the lowest national income in years. A question came out: "Is the per capita income lower than the 1998 level? "
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0576par0281	Yeah, you know, what they've been telling me for a month.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0565par0282	In 2002-2020, our GDP increased by about 145 per cent, and the average annual growth was 5.2 per cent. In the 2002-2020 period, the investments increased by 273.4 per cent in real, and the average annual real investment increase was 8.1 per cent. We've also increased our income levels per person. In 1998, the GDP increased to $4,445 per person to $8,597 per person. As we increased our income per person, we also increased our society's ability to buy. According to its share of purchasing power, it increased from $8,937 in 1998 to $28,435 in 2020.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0576par0283	We jinxed it, yeah, we jinxed it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0577par0284	You've raised the dollar to $16.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0578par0285	Don't read Gazel, listen.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0579par0286	The total employment increased from 19.6 million people in 2005 to 29.6 million in seasonal corrections as of October 2021. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have a quote from one of our fellow workers, Şemsi Tebrizi. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read it. It's wonderful.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0580par0288	No, don't read it to me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0579par0289	Ant to love, an elephant to love, ant to bear even the mountain, when you fall in love and believe.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0580par0291	Oh, my God! For God's sake.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0579par0293	During the AK PARTY administrations, we have always been there for our employees and pensions, we have made significant improvements in their monthly and wages, and we've done a lot more than inflation; we've had one of the best examples today.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0580par0294	How much does he charge in Europe?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0581par0295	I've got 1,500 lira pensioners.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0579par0296	Inflation took place during December 2002-2021, 587.5 per cent, while the lowest civil servant's salary was 1.145 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0582par0298	There's no truth to what you're saying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0583par0299	Go ahead, President, we're on it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0584par0300	Yeah, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0585par0301	Dear Congressman, the average officer's salary is 913 per cent, the lowest SEC pension is 921 per cent, the lowest agriculture is 2.738 per cent pension...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0586par0302	Mr. Secretary, where are the three paychecks?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0585par0303	...the lowest tradesman's pension has increased by 1.480 per cent, with a net minimum salary of 770 per cent. I supply, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0587par0305	If the national income is $8,500, where's the $5,000 minimum wage?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0588par0306	Lower inflation to 10 per cent, first reduce inflation to 10 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0589par0307	Two months, two months. It won't take two whole months.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0590par0308	Precious...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0591par0309	Mr. President, I have a brief request. I've received some information from Germany, so I'll share it with you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0592par0310	I also received some information from France.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0590par0311	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0591par0312	Thank you. Mr. President, I wrote to a friend of mine who lives in Düsseldorf, and what's the minimum wage there, and what's the average rent? The answer to me is: 2,200 euros gross, 1,800 euro net, and an average apartment with 3 rooms below, not so fancy and bad, is between 650 and 800 euros.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0593par0314	Oh, my God.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0591par0315	Because in his speech, Mr. Secretary said the minimum wage is lower than the rent, and it doesn't reflect that fact. In addition, there is a rule throughout Germany that if the rent goes above one-third of its income, the state pays the rest. So that's social government practice there. Plus, the minimum wage time is 12 euros, so I took it officially.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0594par0316	Well, thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0595par0318	Mr. President, first of all, we started on January 1st with a minimum wage of $385 -- we're going to go into detail at the next hour, but -- the minimum wage has dropped to 180 dollars yesterday, with an unresolved stubbornness and a repeat of mistakes. One of our workers was complaining about 80 cents an hour -- when he used to work for 80 cents -- to condemn China -- under a dollar. Today's minimum wage will be valid on January 1st. The minimum salary, on the basis of the dollar, will be reduced to yesterday, if Mr. Nebati, who has brought the 12 lira dry to this day, makes 21.5 dry on January 1st. So I couldn't even talk to him and say, "God forbid, God forbid," but he should be ashamed of his performance. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0594par0321	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0595par0322	There are serious concerns in one night, in one day, about how much money will be paid on January 1st, 10s, 12s, 15th, when those who have lost the money, who have guessed a dry 8.7 on January 1st and brought it to 16th. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0596par0324	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0597par0325	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0596par0326	Mr. Cemal isn't on the phone himself, but Mr. Cemal...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0597par0327	No, no teasing Cemal Bey.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0596par0328	One moment, sir, one moment.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0597par0329	Now, Mr. Nightingale, I can promise you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0596par0330	He read information on the phone. And here he is...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0597par0331	You too... but look...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0596par0332	No, wait, why, Mr. President? You're reading the message from the phone.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0598par0333	I'm getting it from someone who lives in Germany.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0597par0334	Mr. nightingale, I give you my word to the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0599par0335	I'm a congressman. Can't I talk, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0597par0336	Every single member of the group is acting president when you demand it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0599par0337	This is Congress. I'm Congressman. Can't I talk?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0597par0338	It's not personal with you, it's not personal with you. I'm telling you something else.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0600par0340	Hold on, hold on, hold on.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0601par0341	You were giving it to everyone...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0600par0342	As you have so far, Mr. Free, as you've been doing with your time, I've spoken as Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0602par0343	I mean, I'm so sorry, Mr. Nightingale. I'm so sorry. My dear friends, do you think I'll promise when you scream?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0601par0344	You give it to everyone...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0602par0345	You think so? (MHP rows of noise) I said I'd give my word to the Deputy Group Presidents.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0603par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0602par0347	Mr. Nightingale, do we have anything to say?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0603par0348	Mr. President, don't you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0602par0349	No.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0603par0350	I condemn your attitude! Let's file a report.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0602par0351	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0604par0352	And so do I!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0603par0353	Next time something similar happens, I hope we'll be here, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0604par0354	Once again, I condemn...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0355	Okay, thank you. [[Noises in MHP rows]] III. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0606par0359	Mr. President, roll call...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0360	I will submit the third article to your votes. There's a roll call before the presentation. I'll meet the roll call. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Mr. Special, Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0607par0363	How come they don't get the congressman to talk in the House...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0364	Mr. Karabat, Mr. Sumer, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Karaca, Mr. Gündoğdu, Mr. Süleyman, Mr. Bingöl...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0607par0366	Mr. President, rule neutral!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0367	Mr. Rock, Mr. Beko...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0608par0368	Run this place neutrally, neutrally!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0369	Mr. Kayışoğlu, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Kıncç, Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0608par0370	Don't run this place by side, Mayor! Don't run this place by side!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0371	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0609par0373	Did we come from the mountain?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0374	Mr. Achiever, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Pig...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0610par0375	You're running this place by side.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0605par0376	...Mr. Ceylan.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0611par0378	You make comments, you don't promise the congressman!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0610par0379	You don't promise a congressman...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0612par0380	Did we come from the mountain? We've been chosen!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0613par0381	Friends... dear friends... You know I've promised the MPs more than any Congresswoman.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0614par0383	You could have made a short promise for 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0613par0384	I'll meet the roll call. I'll start the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0614par0386	Mr. President, you could have made a short promise for 60. It's inappropriate for you to ignore our congressman friend's insistence. Look, you promise people who want it according to 60, but you don't pay attention to the congressman.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0615par0387	He's the president of the European Federation, let him answer. Why don't you make me? Why are you leading side by side? What's the big deal? What kind of language...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0616par0388	Now, she left without teasing him and shared the message she received from Düsseldorf.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0617par0389	Mr. Nightingale, you know my position best.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0616par0390	So I said, "Look, a very good member of parliament, not what a telephone message is -- he shared that information in person. You didn't even tolerate it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0617par0391	You know my attitude best, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0616par0392	I condemn your attitude.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0618par0393	You have to promise a congressman who lives there, who lives there!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0617par0394	Don't shout! I know him as well as you do!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0618par0395	He's lived there for 40 years, president of the Federation! Let's see if you can promise the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0617par0396	I know his friend as well as you, don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0619par0397	Unbiased governance, neutral!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit05spe0617par0398	Please don't leave the General Assembly, friends who give compasses. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] I submit the third article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0617par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the discussions of the 2020 Central Management Competitive Accounting Law Proposal. Commission? He's in position. Transferred, canceled and complementary grant MADDE 4- (1) The central administration of 2020, as shown in the final account statements, is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The total of the unspendable public administrations under the general budget is 23,522,881,186,78 Turkish liras, 619,460,425,98 Turkish liras, which are not spent on the special budgetary administrations in the ruler number III, have been transferred to the following year. (2) The central administration, as shown in the expense statements, is added to Law 5018, from the grants and special grants used during the year 2020 and transferred to the following year; A) (I) is the 32,814,599,270.05 Turkish Lira of public administrations under the general budget, B) (6,376,986,423,82 Turkish Lira of special budgetary administrations on table number III) C) 997,899,248,55 Turkish Lira of regulator and auditory institutions on table number ll) The grant has been cancelled. (3) The central administration is added to Law 5018, to meet public administration's overfunds in 2020, as shown in the final expense statements; A) (I) Turkish Lira 94,869,620,080,94 for public administrations under the general budget, B) 9.064.102.32 Turkish Lira for special budgetary administrations on table number III Completive grant accepted. Adana MP Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu has requested a statement on the 4th article on behalf of the PTA Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0620par0021	Mr. President, I've been promised to express the opinion of our PTA Party Group on Article 4 of the 2020 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. I salute our great nation and its delegation, watching us at the beginning of their screens. My dear friends, from the day we started budget talks, when I looked at the 2022 budget of the AK PARTY, which has been greatly reduced since Turkish lira lost more than 56 per cent in the face of dollars today, I see that there is no hope for our nation. In this budget, there is no cure for poverty, inflation, unemployment. We don't have enough support and solutions for our farmers. There are no steps to make the life of the worker, employer, employee, pensioner easier. There's injustice in income distribution. The AK PARTY government has forgotten our nation again in this budget, and has only remembered its followers. In the 2022 budget, there are plenty of guarantees given to fellow contractors. There are 42.5 billion grants in the budget. This government has not chosen a way to save wastelessness to continue its reign, but has chosen a way to increase our citizens' tuition, taxes, and punishments. At the end of 20 years, your government has raised unemployment as far as history has seen, and the income has been unfair, and the country has brought agriculture and farmers to an end. In the last three and a half years of the party presidency system, foreign currency rates, fuel prices, inflation has taken over, and our country has returned to its place of fire. As before 1980, you restored the fuel lines to our citizens today, the cheap bread lines in front of the public bread shops. In your rule, ignoring illegalities, irregularities, and corruption, you also provided a party state with instructions and political pressures. Guys, look, just so you don't object in advance, I'll give you a sample of the country's facts by giving you weekly Developments and General View Reports on the President's Strategy and Budget Presidency in Turkey. During January-July of last year, the number of people who failed to pay the consumer loan was 347,276. The number of people who failed to pay consumer loans in the same period this year increased to 788,861. What's the increase? 27.2%. At the same time, the number of individuals who failed to pay the individual credit card debt increased to 351,161 from 320,889. The number of people who failed to pay the consumer loan or individual credit card debt rose from 558,319, to 967,136. In September, there was a huge increase in the number of people who could not pay the consumer loan. In September last year, the number of people who failed to pay the consumer loan, 56,987, rose to 114,805 per cent in September this year. Citizens' total debt was 950.8 billion liras, including debt due to banks, financing companies, assets management companies, and toKİKİ (TİKİ). The number of files in the executive offices is over 23 million. Between January 1st and June 18th this year alone, the executive and bankruptcy offices received a total of 3 million 407,000 new files. In Turkey, 84 of each 100 KOBI (100 KOBI) owe money to banks. This is the reality of the country with the presidential strategy budget chairmanial data; yes, unfortunately, these are the real ones. Incompetency became a driver's license during this period of power. For example, 70 ▪ of the 200 rectors do not have one foreign academic publication. However, the more qualified the chancellor is in the academic sense, the higher the performances of universities will be. With that understanding, people who are unprofessional should not have a chance to run a legitimate system. Mr. President, we, the Good Party, are in favor of mind, science, truth. So it's not just one man, it's common sense, so it's what I say it is. It's not what I say, it's what Turkey is running with our nation in the home of the nation. Again, we listen to our farmers, our merchants; we listen to the troubles of women, our young, our unemployed. He makes this nation pay for his mistakes in economic, social, agricultural, law, justice, and foreign policy, born without knowledge, inept, in the form of mismanagement. So the AK PARTY is doing the wrong thing, and unfortunately, our nation has to pay for it. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the rule of law that will be established with a improved and reinforced parliamentary system; a strong, sustainable growth strategy that will cover all segments of our country's economy; giving up its development rants for the growth of our country's economy; along with them, adding value and international competitiveness towards high sectors; and instead of using consumption and high public spending, a high-profit intellectual policy based on investments and exports; a stable and permanent transparency, the independence of the Central Bank and the TİSAG, and the resolving of property funds, and the resolving of our country's resources, we will take control of the government's leadership and the administration of the government, without relying on foreign loans. Mr. President, at the moment of arrival today, the difference between our country's best income and the poorest is about 30 times greater. Even so, the ruling members began to do what they did all the time, and we're fighting for economic salvation. They're trying to save the day with their rhetoric. But as our nation grows poorer every day, the AK PARTY continues to mock those with one hand in oil and one hand in honey. It is as if the AK PARTI does not run this country; instead of pretending to act as others who give LPG, natural gas, mazota, gasoline, electricity, fertilizer increase, it will be for your own good and for our nation's sake to consider our proposals to solve our nation's problems, and for our nation's salvation, they are now waiting for solution-oriented politics. As the Good Party, we come to govern our country with projects that will cure our nation's troubles, which have been meticulously studied and will bring our country back on track. We're ready! We are prepared with our efforts to regulate revenue distribution, unemployment, inflation, industrialization, the increasing cost of farmers, fertilizer prices, EYTs, 3600 additional indicators waiting, unscheduled teachers and health workers, workers and pensioners, with our solutions to correcting the situation of our pensioners. Yeah, we're ready for the election, and we're ready to run the country. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] As a result, the budget that melts in front of dollars is a budget that can't cure our nation's problems. This budget is a budget of poverty and corruption that will make our citizens depend on dry onions. He says we must go to the elections without further harm, without wasting time, and with this feeling and thinking, I wish the budget of 2022 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0621par0035	Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak has requested a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sazak.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0622par0038	Mr. President, I have made a pledge today on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 4 of the 2022 Central Management Account Budget Law Proposal. I salute your honorable delegation and our beloved nation. Before we begin, I'd like to talk to you about the 4th article in which we conduct talks. In this article, the amount of public administrations, private budgetary administrations, auditing institutions' grants transferred to the next year, the amount of cancelled funds, and the amount of supplementary grants given to the institution to cover the budgetary costs they made during the year for mandatory reasons. As you know, the 2020-Year Central Management Account Budget Law Proposal is also being held, along with the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. In this framework, I'd like to say that we, the National Movement Party, have positively evaluated and supported the budget of 2022, the fourth of the presidential government system, which we support with the spirit of the Republic Alliance. As a result of the assessments, a budget in line with the targets in the medium-term programme covering the period 2022-2024 has been prepared. In this sense, we are confident that the budget of 2022 will meet our political, legal, economic and financial goals at a maximum rate. Dear lawmakers, as you know, in the world of globalization, the pandemic has brought countries to their physical limits, causing the world's economy to change accents. The logistical problems in the most developed countries, the cracks in the supply demand chain, the rising food prices due to droughts, the rise in high navigation and energy input costs observed at commodity prices have triggered inflation globally and caused economic chaos. In the process, people lost their lives, companies were damaged, and countries had to face economic challenges. In our country, along with the outbreak of Covid-19, the irregular migration, border defenses, natural disasters that have caused devastating damage, and the forest fires that have started throughout the country have changed our economy and many parameters in our everyday lives. In a conjunctural version of such negatives, Turkish lira was subjected to manipulative attacks, aimed at the collapse of the country's economy and its dependency on the outside through economic-based attacks. Moreover, the opposition in our country is trying to transform economic vulnerability into propaganda material and cover their political failures, looking outside for the solution by landing in the well by the rope of Washington and Brussels. Despite these economic sieges and perception managements, a 30 per cent increase in budget costs and an estimated 34 per cent increase in budget revenues, the largest budget in the history of the Republic of 1.7 trillion liras has been prepared. It is positive for us that the largest share of the budget will be re-educated by about 15 per cent. Let the people live. More than 100 billion have been earmarked for social state spending, including support for elderly people over 65 years of age, disabled citizens and poor families. Over $180 billion has been transferred to the defence industry, which we have raised locality and nationality to 80 per cent, which is necessary for our future and future. Turkey must continue to grow through investment, production, employment and exports. During the 2016-2020 period, foreign direct investments exceeded $33 billion, industrial production increased by 9 per cent year-on-year, and our employment reached 30 million for the first time before the pandemic. Our export has reached the record level of our republic's history with $21.5 billion a month and $210 billion in 12 months. Thus, in spite of opposition speakers who were hoping for a worsening economy, the Republic of Turkey became the first country to grow at the highest rate in the third quarter. Of course, there are some flaws in the budget as well as everything else. From these economic indicators of Turkey, I would like to remind those who are screaming the war budget under the roof of our Veteran Assembly: this budget is the budget of our sovereign rights in the Mediterranean; it is the budget of local and national drones and SIHA (SIHA) who have made history in the fight against terrorism; it is the freedom budget of the Turkish home again. (MHP and AK PARTY) This budget is the budget of the Republic of Turkey, which is expected to grow by 10 per cent at the end of the year, despite all negatives. Of course, it is inevitable that inflation that is out of control in the world is also shaking our country. These days, our country struggles for support from outside the fifth arm media, also aware of the triggering inflation of custom discourses that are being served with the support of the media, it must be studied closely, and strict measures taken should be increased and continued to fight inflation. I'd like to ask the alliance of the unsubstantiated allies who have been surprised by the macro-level gains of the Republic of Turkey, who have been playing the role of a dove of peace, who have taken the power from their friends, who think they're challenging the Republic of Turkey, who think they're challenging the war budget, and who are creating more problems than solutions, who are offering the country's problems as if they were just inflation. You're going to sell the future of the blue homeland? Will you give up the gains in Libya? Or are you going to cash the unitar structure in Southeast Anatolia? Congressmans, knowledge in the world is power; power is economy; economy is independence. The Republic of Turkey is now ruled by an Ankara-based mind, far from surrendering to its economy by producing its own information and technology. The lack of concessions to our rights to sovereignty in the eastern Mediterranean is a manifestation of operations against separatist terrorist organizations and military operations to the east of Fırat. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] With this mind and thousands of years of state tradition, the Republic of Turkey has taken its place in a new world order that has changed. During this period, the closed Marash became a Turkish home again under the Armenian occupation of Karabağ, which had been dedicated to the use of the people of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and the Ayasofia-i Kebir Mosque was re-opened. Following decisive steps and upright stances, Turkey's being a regional actor has also disturbed the international community. Street actions, terrorist attacks, July 15 coup attempt, and finally, our sovereignty has been targeted by economic foreign intervention. However, these attacks on our economy and independence from the outside will not be the first or the last. In the past, the nation of Necip, which was united in the difficult times of the Battle of Salvation, did not compromise against the efforts of traitors inside and out. The Turkish nation has no condition! Our constituent Assembly, which adopts the principle, has not yielded to external altars, rivals. The anonymous heroes of the Turkish war, who were martyred for the independence of Anatolia, were not captured by the invaders at the cost of their lives. In spite of our nation's glorious past, a century ago, the same games are being played without slowing down, similar scenarios are being served with fifth arm activities, as it is known to be pawns in the games of a bunch of homeless mending in our country, evil focals trying to tear us apart. But it has to be known that the National Movement Party does not ask foreign mission chiefs for help. The Republican Alliance does not seek help from the so-called apostles of democracy. The mighty Republic of Turkey does not kiss the state by hand. (MHP and AK PARTY) Our holy nation, who live in Bozkurt, free and worship Hakkk, does not kneel. Before I put an end to my remarks, you are aware that the Turkish State Organization, founded under Turkey's politics and leadership, held its 8th summit of the Presidents of the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries in Istanbul in November. Once again, the importance of Turkey's political and economic stability has been highlighted in this union. Language unity is important for societies to become a nation. The unity of culture and conscience is essential to the ability of a nation to be a nation, such as this can only be tested in this way. Because there's no telling what an unknown factory will produce tomorrow for whom. On this occasion, he voiced our satisfaction with the Turkish Union's Organization, which was founded with its vision of the Turkish Union, wishing that our unity, which exists with these feelings and thoughts, would be permanent.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0623par0051	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0622par0052	I wish our country the best budget of the year 2022, and I salute your honorable delegation and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0624par0054	Mr. President, I have a request, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0623par0055	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0624par0056	Mr. President, Mr. Hatip Nurullah Sazak is a member of our House of Honor, but it is impossible to accept the style of his speech, a number of adjectives, and a number of accusations he mentions. The opposition in the country is seeking an excuse for failure by making political material for economic vulnerability. A word like that is nothing but denial of politics and all the dynamics of politics. There's a crisis, there's economic vulnerability, and it's denial that the opposition is thirsty when every single item is raised every day. Then, as I recall, Mr. State Gardener and the Deputy Directors of the Group even mentioned after these elections that they were the opposition party and that the nation had assigned them to balance and control. So when talking to opposition parties, let the real opposition party make it clear if there's an acceptable opposition party division.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0623par0058	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0624par0059	If it's not a problem to contradict the president's public statement, I'll leave it to him. On the first day of the blue country, we find it true; come, let's pass. The Republican People's Party, which says it's true to keep the balance between Libya and our Parliamentary Assembly yesterday; the fact that Cyprus's Conqueror Bkent Ecevit is our third President, and our consistency and continuity in that regard; the fact that we do not forget the persecution of the AKP on that day and that we do not forget our sensitivity to the unit structure. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0625par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0626par0064	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0625par0065	Mr. President, it is technically necessary to highlight a matter related to the Civil Code: Mr. Speaker, our speaker has made his political assessment, these are the views of the National Movement Party, where there was no clear bullying of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0627par0066	But he said some very heavy things, and you didn't watch.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0625par0067	Obviously, there was no bullying involved. If it's been a bit of a feisty, then we need to note here that Mr. Free Special, as we express your sensitivity to the testimony of Mr. Blue Country, Mr. Riotian said that the notion of the blue homeland is spreading, that it's perceived as spreading. I'm just saying because there's an unresolved explanation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0627par0068	He's complied, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0625par0069	In the same way, we know from the statements of CHP spokesman Engin Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0628par0071	Complete, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0625par0072	Other than that, you're looking at the comments of Mr. Ünal Çiviküçüçü, who made about Turkey's foreign policy; Mr. Ünal Çvikçikçik said: "I'm afraid we know that Karabakh is being aided from Turkey. I'm afraid that he's... And we're getting word that the Jihadist terrorists have been sent there by Turkey. At six o'clock, the operation began, and at ten a.m., Mr. Ünal Rioteur made this statement, and then Mr. Engin Altay came out, and he said: "We are with Azerbaijan all the way to the end." When one side is doing this, the other side is doing this, which one are we going to take, which one are we going to evaluate? But it's clear that what our public speaker is expressing is counsel, concrete, and public opinion expressed by the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0628par0074	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0075	Mr. President, I have to explain these statements.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0625par0076	We're in the middle of something. Come on.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0628par0077	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0078	No, there's nothing to extend or unnecessary. Look, I said...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0630par0080	I'm not talking about you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0081	Mr. Sazak, will you leave the blue land? Explain. He says, and the parties say...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0630par0082	Yeah, he's not talking to you, most people take it personally.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0083	He said no. Sir, take a look at this, take a look at their statements.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0630par0084	We know your explanations about the blue country.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0085	The only question I have about these things is that if I do this, your duty requires this explanation by referring to the MHP. And let me remind you that we, the MHP, also define ourselves as the opposition party and the balance, the inspection mission. There's nothing here to extend the business. I also said that we rejected all of Mr. Sazak's statements, and that was the official opinion of the Republican People's Party. Two parts of the three statements you just said are reciprocal. I suggest you watch independent channels instead of A News. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0631par0090	No, no, the statements of the Ünal Riotist are known to everyone, and the opinion of the Republican People's Party is what I express.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0632par0091	Well...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0092	No, it's not mine, it's yours.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0631par0093	Your official opinion...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0094	CHP's views are not mine...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0631par0095	Your official opinion...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0096	Come sit here and I'll sit there. Oh, my God!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0631par0097	The official opinion... is the opinion of the person sitting there.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0098	Brother...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0631par0099	I'm saying what Engin Altay said.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0100	Mr. President, this is our official opinion.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0631par0101	Isn't that what he said about the week?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0102	...that's the official opinion of the CHP.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0631par0103	Didn't he say... you're standing in the wrong place?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0104	Yesterday, the Speaker...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0633par0105	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, Mr. Group Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0106	Who did the Speaker accept yesterday? Who did the Speaker accept yesterday?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0634par0107	Isn't that the official opinion of the CHP? Isn't that what Engin Altay said?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0108	For God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0634par0109	Is this gonna happen when Free Private says it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0110	I'll leave you to your historical contradictions. Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0634par0111	What kind of contradiction?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0635par0112	Mr. Group, my Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0629par0113	CHP's official opinion is what I said.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0634par0114	Not what Engin Altay said, but what Free Private said. Let the CHP admire him, too.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0635par0115	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, would you please sit down... please sit down. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Speaking for the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Abdullah Kokotta, the Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0636par0124	Mr. President, our dear people and all our comrades in prisons, I salute you all. Turkey is experiencing an economic collapse. There are several dimensions and reasons for this collapse. First of all, the country's conflict process failed to emerge from its metaphor. Thus, the entire country has been deprived of democracy. People are not happy, they are not peaceful, and they have lost the desire to live in safety. The Kurdish problem, the main source of all problems, continues to ring every day. Unresolvedness has spread throughout every area. Political killings are not over, the lawless are not over, the political genocides against our party are not over, the injustices against Kurds are not over, and at the same time, valuable friends, prisons, unfortunately, have become a house of death. Just this morning, many of our party members, many of them were taken into custody by Special Ops officers in Diyarbakır. Public spending aimed at ignoring and suppressing the Kurdish problem has been endless. A ministry such as the Interior Ministry has officially become a state within the state and has implemented all of its operations and political plots on Kurds and has not hesitated to sign a new law every day. The Home Secretary is conducting a psychological war against our people with these policies. As a result of all the pressures, it is intended to break the people's resistance. I tell you now: these people are not new to such oppressions; neither have the ministers come and go, and so will the nobles. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Economic stability will only be possible with social and legal stability. This government has seized 48 of our municipalities, appointed trustees, and there are operations, detentions, illegalities against our party. Is it possible to talk about stability here? While our people can't even meet their daily needs, the budget for defence industry has been increased by 30 per cent, the country's resources are being pulled out in a row, and the government is trying to survive with the zoning economy, so public resources are being looted and looted. This government's first fifteen-year organisation has been privatised for as much as $60 billion, reaching a number of 80 billion by now. Unfortunately, all the resources and resources the country has received have been exhausted. Erdoğan called out to the public on December 2, 2016 and said, "Cash your existing dollars." So it was $3.53, so the person with $1,000 went and cashed his dollar, got $3.530, which is $1.15.80, as of today, so a citizen who had already cashed his $1,000 would now receive $15,000 and would only get $3,000. How can these people trust you? Look, Numan Survivor, it is immoral to turn to the fight. He says, "They are like Haroun, they are like Aaron, they are like Qarun." So, how are you gonna trust this guy? My advice to you is, definitely don't trust this guy because what he said the next day doesn't match what he said the next day. What do these people think? What did you do with 128 billion dollars? That's what we're asking first? Since 2013, you've only invested $500 billion in construction, concrete. With your wasteful and unpredictable policies, you have led the country to poverty today. Because they live in palaces, they do not know what poverty is, but when it comes to their interests, they speak of nobleness, Survivion, and others that cannot stand against Erdogan. And now they're cutting the moral guard to cover the poverty table. Have you ever collected bread from garbage? Have you ever had to stay in houses without doors or windows in winter conditions? I'll give stale and moldy bread to the animals. Did you take them home? Do you know how much a biscuit costs? For you, it's all roses, no poverty, no deprivation. Aren't the cars in line for gas because it's too much? Look, a member of the Justice and Development Party says economic difficulties are not about us. It's a joke. It's a joke. Gas is going up another 60 cents tonight, dear friends. You left dollars in public? You have manipulatively manipulatively manipulatively, war-screaming people, and in this misty weather, you've already taken as many as you can so far. But now there is no more resources, and the treasure is empty, but the people have no faith in you. The Central Bank is downloading foreign currency, which is up to $1.15.80, minimum wage is $4,253. As soon as the minimum wage is announced, the minimum wage has gone down, dear friends. So the country's present environment, unfortunately, is the wolf's table. Look, everything's up 100 percent. The Kurds have a beautiful saying about this issue; do you know what that means, I'm going to say it in Kurdish and then translate it in Turkish? The person who is capable says in his table: "Don't open the door of the window, don't touch the bread; eat plenty of it, don't be shy. So that's what they do to the public, unfortunately, that's the economic picture of Turkey. What I'm saying is that the public is aware of these things, and it's not what you think it is; the public knows very, very well what stage they're in, how much poverty they're facing, dear friends. Look, we're sitting in this warm environment, doing all kinds of evaluations, but our people are hungry on the street. The minimum wage available isn't enough, it won't be enough, it'll continue to melt from tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, there is one other place that is important to us. Look, do you see this map, this map is a map of Ağrı. Look, now, let's come to the problems of the beautiful Pain, and the matter of the withdrawal of Pain. We've said it over and over on this stand, and we're going to keep saying it. Look, I've given you 100 questions, more than 100, and I've brought it up all the time, and you've ignored all of them. The pain, as it did in the previous years, unfortunately, cannot and will not get its share from this budget. So it's the County of Pain that gets at least a share of national income. Look, the unemployment rate is 10%, there's no health care, there's no pain. Young people from the pain are migrating, and there are no young people left in the pain. The level of development and economically is during Turkey's 81st province, Ağrı. You've done a lot of damage to this country, the AKP government, but you've done a lot more damage to two things. One of them is that you've made Turkey the poorest country in the world, and you've made A pain the poorest city in Turkey. Look, it's a fact, it's obvious with this numerical data. In pain, the tradesman shut down, the livestock finished, the farming ended, and in heavy winter, Pain suffers from severe warming. The harshest winter conditions are in Pain. The project on the country's railways had nothing to do with Ağrı. In fact, in the 1900s, there were railway tracks until Erzurum-Eleşkirt-East-EastBayut, dear friends, who are now gone, destroyed. It's a hundred years behind, and it's because of you and the previous governments. The road to Pain-Catch-Patnos hasn't been built or done in about 15 years. Look, Painfuls pay for Osmangazi Bridge, but no road to Ağrı is being made, and why is that? The Pain Sugar Factory is on the loose. Dear friends, look, I don't have time for Pain, but I'd like to show you a few more things. Dear people, this is Mount Pain. Mount Pain, which is covered with snow in four seasons, is considered sacred by many religions and beliefs, at 5,137 metres [5,137 m] high, and is the highest point in Europe. There's going to be a chalet, it's not built. We've been making this demand for years, and there's been no progress on it. The other thing is, Isaac Pasha Palace is right next to Ağrı Mountain, near EastBayazit district...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0637par0136	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0636par0137	...we have demands of Isaac Pasha Palace, the most beautiful example of pain architecture, which is in the mountains, which has not been fulfilled. Look, the meteor pit, look, Fish Lake is going to be a very important tourist destination. Diyadin Springs, look, Diyadin Canyon, these are all investment sites, dear friends. And Noah's Ark, I have something important to say about it. The natural monument to the southern part of Mount Pain is believed to be due to Noah's ark, which was stranded as a result of the Flood of Noah. It is also the Ark of Noah (the Ark of Noah), which, in a mythological sense, represents the salvation and rebirth of mankind and all living things, and is also the place where all mankind is scattered and saved. So you're all Painful, all the creatures around the world are Painful, but Pain is the last province of Turkey. We don't accept that. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0638par0141	Mr. President, is there any way I can get a promise?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0639par0142	He wants words about pain in everything, as if he was the sole owner of Pain.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0640par0143	No way.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0638par0144	I mean, I agree with my Congressman, yes, everyone's in pain, but I'll tell you that they don't have to ignore the 20 quadrillion from the AK PARTI period in particular.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0640par0145	Tell your deputy president of the group to make you a promise, so it's in the... Yes, it is Istanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan who has requested a statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Emecan.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0641par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, dear friends, we're close to the end of budget negotiations. This is the end of a book you've written for 19 years. What's not in this book? Let's start with the final of the book. You put the country into an economic experiment in the final, and you called it the Chinese model. From October 16th to today, in two months, Turkish lira's value loss compared to dollars has exceeded 40 per cent, and the dollar is now 15.5 liras. You're driving like a truck with an empty brakes on the road to the worst of it. The $1 trillion, 751 billion, 2022 budget you brought in, has melted in half. A total of $446 billion in foreign debt increased by 2.5 trillion a day just because of the increase in courtship. It's just that the increase in courtship has gone higher than the budget figure, my dear friends. The budget deficit was envisioned for $278.4 billion, but budget figures no longer mean anything, so an additional budget needs to be made immediately. I ask: When the citizen voted for you, turn our money into stamps. Did he say that? As you drop the interest, the dollar comes out, and as the dollar goes out, the dollar deposits in the banks go back to dollars. Sixty-three percent of the deposits in banks are dollar deposits, my friends. Citizens, workers, farmers, tradesmen, and pensioners are getting poorer every day, and income distribution is getting worse and worse. Our Minister of Finance, Nebati, says, "Trust us, believe us." He asks for the patience of the nation. What did the citizen really want from you? He wanted to live in prosperity. What did you do? In 2023, you promised $25,000 per person, which was only $8,500 in 2020. With your free fall to Turkish lira today, this income has been cut in half, and you've made a public interest in the bread lines. The price of food products has increased by 2, 3 times, continues to increase daily, mothers can't buy milk for their children, children can't buy food, children go to bed hungry. [[Applause from CHP rows]] He wanted to work, he wanted to get paid for his hard work. What did you do? You've created an unprecedented army of unemployed people in Turkey's history, we have over 8 million unemployed, hundreds of thousands of non-assigned teachers. What did this country's doctor want? He wanted to work under better circumstances, get paid for his hard work. What did you do? You've made hospitals into companies, patients into customers. You've condemned this country's doctor, the health worker, to the performance system, created immigrant doctors. 5,000 doctors have left our country in ten years. And what did the children want from you, dear friends? Just be happy, play games, get a good education. So, what did you do? You've connected schools to congregations. With the 4+4+4 system, children became workers. Look, a 13-year-old kid on social media said something like... have you seen it? If you haven't seen it, watch it. It says: "A test book costs 80 liras. If you turn a young man from here, if one of them is happy, I don't know anything about his life. You even stole the happiness of the children. When the citizen voted for you, he wanted the republic to protect its values. Because we have won these values by blood, by labor, by struggle. What did you do? You've sold state assets, power plants, sugar factories, Tank Palet factories, ports for 19 years under the name of specialization. You made $63 billion in privatisations. For $63 billion, you've spent both the past and the future of this country. Now that you've accelerated, you've given up on Europe, now it's time for the country's assets to pursue Arab countries. You give the Antalya Port Authority to Qatar by 2047, and you pass the coast for free. I also brought it up in the budget, some of which are owned by closed Etibank and Turkish Electricity Corporation Electricity Proliferation and Electric Dispersion Company, some of which are owned by zero properties and facilities to TEADA or TEDAS for free, and then you're going to privatise TEİASS. Today, this issue is being discussed in the Commission, my friends. When your economic experiment went upside down, Erdogan declared a war of economic salvation, I'd like to ask you, do you know what the Battle of Salvation is? Look, this is very important, and you have to think very carefully about what's going on when you're talking about such an important concept. You can't, you can't, you can't use this country's blood-written struggle for existence for a model that you made up, that you made up, that you made up dollars, that you made rich, that you made people miserable. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, dear friends, citizens wanted to leave a good future for their children and grandchildren, so what did you do? You've sunk into debt with public private cooperation projects, even grandchildren, and with the more dollars, there's a guaranteed supply of treasure bridges, highways, tunnels, hospital projects. Look at these loans. The only increase in the treasure guarantee for the year 2020 is 22 billion liras, from 2020 to 2021. The deposit is 151.3 billion dollars guaranteed, and the deposit of the treasure in the 2022 budget is 42.5 billion dollars, but with an increase in currency, this is 42.5 billion dollars over 70 billion dollars. Now, dear friends, the economy sinks as the Titanic takes on water. Meanwhile, Turkey's Republican Central Bank, which is accepted by all of us that it is not independent, continues to intervene by throwing dollars into the sinking ship. And by the way, some pearls are falling out of Mr. Finance Minister: I'd be sorry if he didn't keep the economic model. He says, "You only lose your salary, and I lose everything." Mr. Secretary, it's everything in a large part of this community, the salary you underestimate, the job. I'm just saying, it's really rude to say something like that, and now you're being thrown around out of desperation. If that were not the case, then why would a professor suddenly come out and show us the economic OPEC stick, and suddenly Finance Minister Nebati suddenly cashes a hundred million dollars in cash into the business world? He said he was joking. But there's a truth to every joke, and the public is no longer able to take a joke. So what happens if they don't change the dollars? You're going to declare them all traitors? I don't know. Fuat Oktay said on Tuesday in his speech that whatever our nation needs in this budget, whatever our future needs, there is what is most necessary for Turkey. But the truth is not, dear friends. In this budget, the Justice and Development Party has what it needs. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to say a few words about the clause I've been talking about: this clause is about the transfer, canceled and given supplementary grants in 2020. Overspent in the 2020 budget is 94.9 billion dollars. Whose money is this? Whose money are you spending without asking who? The money spent, of course, is people's money. You should've received additional funding for companies in need of funds by offering additional budget laws to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on behalf of the nation's budget for spending so high, but you've closed this road with legal regulations, and you've eliminated the transparency of the budget, and you want to resolve this issue with a complementary grant. Since 2018, the wrong economic and financial policies you've been implementing since the beginning of one man's power have failed, dear friends, and we have no longer a prisoner. What about minimum wage? The minimum wage is $4,250. You brag about the 50 percent increase and say it's way above inflation, but the population's inflation is over 58 per cent. Let's see if there's any more buying power. On January 2020, you can receive 176 litres of flower oil at minimum wage, but at the rate you've announced, 141 litres of flower oil can only be bought. Now, the President has announced that they will remove the tax on institutions and stamp from minimum wage. Yes, in the right sense of decision, of course, we support it, and we've been saying it all the time, in fact, to remove the tax on the minimum wage, but there's a very serious lack of courtesy here, dear friends. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been treated with rudeness and disrespect because this arrangement will be passed by law.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0642par0166	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0641par0167	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Therefore, before making that statement, the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey had to be kind enough to give this information to the president and the party groups and to receive their views as a courtesy. But he didn't, and there's no more courtesy to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, as I said at the beginning of my speech, this is the end of a 19-year-old book. Everyone has a book, but not everyone has a story. What you have left is a certain dry book, where you condemn the citizen to poverty. We're going to write a book full of stories that end well with this country and this people. As the poet said, even the crying of a child without cause is the beginning of a long later laugh. He is very close to the beginning, and the people say, "Now the ark is waiting for it." I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0643par0172	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Bahar Ayvazoğlu is a member of the Tripoli MP. Here you are, Mr. Ayvazoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0175	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on Article 4 of the Central Management Act of 2020. By handing over the budget to us for 20 years, I salute our beloved nation, who appreciated our government, who expected at least one embarrassment from the opposition.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0645par0178	Why does he expect shame from us? We're really embarrassed that we're not in power.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0179	We've all testified together that the subsection statements we've been exposed to here for days have been unbecoming and unbecoming on the identity of a reckless figure based on impromptu impromptuness and the destruction of the party curriculum in the power of opposition and above all the resources of the state. We've watched the panics of covering up their inability to make judgment with rude attitudes from the intersecting set between their belonging and the absolute truth that they've never been able to create. While the classical opposition sat here talking in a row, we passed out, wondering how they had access to this vast stream of knowledge and unexplainable communication skills, where they could sit this elite scale on this saintly bench that they had turned into a pitch market in their own historical process. With all due respect, you're like the ghosts of an old-fashioned shop that have been re-interviewed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You're angry at the fact that more social justice, more freedom, more demand for equality, and that the AK PARTY, which advocates and implements both on an individual and on a social level, consumes all these arguments that you exploit. You can't really afford to be even with people who don't think like you, who don't live like you, who don't always rule, who you deserve to rule.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0645par0182	Oh, my God.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0183	You still underestimate the common sense of this nation, its knowledge, its manners, its vision, its trust in the EC PARTY, you equate it with ignorance.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0645par0184	No such thing, slander.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0185	Or else this simple, corrupt, political literature that you've made from the council bench..
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0646par0186	It's so disrespectful, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0187	How else to explain lines that don't match democratic and participating values. You mean, these people, they understand that language.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0646par0188	You make your wife manager, you keep busy with her.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0189	That's why you can't be a social Democrat...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0647par0190	Disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0646par0191	Get your wife a manager, Warden.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0192	...no nationalist, no nationalist, no secular, no antifascist, no anticommunist.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0646par0194	Show some respect! What a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0195	You may be in a state of confusion, but I'm sorry, but this House is not going to allow you...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0646par0196	How rude, disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0197	...the group doesn't deserve a karith-level vice president-level ligament, your highly disturbing body language, your hand, your arm, the way you sit, the way you don't have it. Maybe under this roof, there are MPs who are left behind in their own identity interrogation by choosing to ignore all of this, even though they don't drop the title of women's rights from their mouths, but is it too hard for you to have a little decency, a little democracy, a little respect? Now understand that all your public spaces in your past, which you've covered in all your evil dreams, are as worthless as the buttons that have been bent and buttoned in the face of a representation that you count as superpowers. You may describe yourself as the greatest, greatest, most important and supreme political race in this country, but I'm sorry, the facts are different. Because this nation remembers you with very painful memories.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0648par0198	Let me ask you something. How much is this budget? Can you tell me what the total number of the general budget is?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0199	Because your past is so dark, so cruel and painful.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0648par0200	Tell me how much of the general budget total is.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0201	You're talking about the legitimacy that you're talking about because you sat with the people on your left side in the parliamentary order and made a fool out of all the plagues that Gazi Mustafa Kemal was able to get into your party, for all the plagues that you've been able to get into, for all the cool things that you've been doing for 80 years, for the empirical push that you've been so proud of, for your bourgeois love for independence, for those brand-new classrooms that you've changed; because you've just sat down with those on your left-hand side and turned them into a fool; because you've been a martyr in your party, and you've been able to become a martyr, and you've been so cool, and you've brought down that fist you've been so coolly in the air you've been bringing it down with a perfect surrender;
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0649par0202	Guys, open it up, open it up, tell me about it for once. People starved to death.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0648par0203	Who's to say "Kelle" and "kelle" and "head"?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0204	...from your patriotic constituents who voted for you first for your pathological and incomprehensible political genius, whose blood brotherhood has risen to this nation, and if it remains within you, ask for the blessing of your staff, if it remains within you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0648par0206	Don't do this!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0650par0207	How disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0208	If you have access to this legal communication in your own subjects, with a rising momentum of twenty years, not Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been in charge of the seal of this holy nation, but the one you still can't put dust on, even though he has suffered a stable overlap, the one you haven't been able to criticize.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0650par0210	Look at your own president! Disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0211	...notwithstanding the losses, you may also have the courage to be critical of the ineptness, failure, and inadequacies he's always made and the failures he's made.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0650par0213	You're the last person to make a move on our president! Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0214	With all this destruction, you still can't speak up to your president, so he can't get over your poetry or, who knows, consciously and deliberately discredit himself, but if you'd like, we can help you with our staff to explain the mechanism of consultation and the internal democracy and the political convention.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0650par0216	Look at you, look at you! Get busy promoting your husband! Where are you going to make your husband manager, be busy with him! Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0644par0217	So that we can rejoice together in the industry, in defence, in technology, in education, in production, in investment, in all that is ours, in all that is ours, and we can be proud together; it's not hard for you to believe.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0650par0218	Make your husband a manager, Warden!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0651par0219	Nothing's hard, but it's hard with you!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0650par0220	He's the last one to speak ill of the President General! How dare you!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0652par0221	If you can stand by the ability of the AK PARTI, which has dealt with all kinds of black agenda wars in the past, all of them overcoming economic assassinations, you can write it down as a sign of honor to your opposition literature, which is the only purpose of your opposition, to defame, to count, to lie, to slander, to slander, to distort, not even to be able to deal with it, not to do so much as to overcome economic assassinations, you can give it to yourself in a final year.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0653par0223	Tell me how the bread gets in the house.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0652par0224	It is our hope that you can accelerate our power by bringing to this country a quality and classy culture of opposition.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0654par0225	You're going to make a fine opposition now.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0653par0226	People are hungry, hungry, no bread, no bread.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0652par0227	I think our dear nation, who still tolerates you despite all your wrongs, deserves it very much. On this occasion, I humbly thank and thank Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, by way of income and stamp tax arrangement, wish his employer to be blessed with the new minimum wage, which greatly pleases the employee, at the time when the minimum wage is announced, and I salute our beloved nation and the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0653par0230	$235. Who's $235 going to be enough for?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0655par0231	He's got your head down, yours.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0656par0232	Members of parliament, you have received the request for a statement on behalf of the groups.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0657par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0658par0234	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0659par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0660par0236	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0661par0237	Mr. President, in his speech made by Bahar Ayvazoglu, Mr. orator Bahar Ayvazoglu, it was said that when there was an out-of-budget bullying in his budget assessments, his Deputy Group members stood up immediately, and they said, "They're picking on him," and they say, "They're picking on him." From the beginning to end, nine minutes to thirty-five seconds to the Republican People's Party, to all the members of the party's group, to the president, to the institutional identity and everyone's individuality.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0659par0238	You don't know how to sit. He said, what is this?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0661par0239	He picked on you as hard as he could, and you followed him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0659par0240	That's right.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0661par0241	Every friend of mine in the Republican People's Party group, on behalf of each other, and in the end, I would like to exercise the right to answer on behalf of our group, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0662par0242	He didn't give me your name.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0663par0243	I did a political analysis, Mr. President, and I didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0661par0244	We want it separately.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0664par0245	Mr. President, there's no such procedure. Okay, thank you, but there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0661par0246	We're all like, this is who you are... we didn't tell anyone. It's so horrible...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0665par0247	Oh, for God's sake. Oh, for God's sake. What these ears have heard lately, Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0666par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0667par0249	I'm listening to Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. I beg you very much. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0666par0251	Mr. President, Mr. Special has said, the secretary has not mentioned the party's name, but has targeted the entire opposition. And then, without even saying our name, did you become a laughing stock with the party on the left side...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0668par0252	That's exactly what I said.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0669par0253	You've all turned to mascara, he said.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0670par0254	Are you the party on the left?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0671par0255	You've returned to the Maskara. It's not just me, it's the whole group, we want a word.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0669par0256	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Gulizar Bicer Karaca on behalf of the first person to have a say.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0672par0257	Yeah, is that the way it is?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0673par0258	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0674par0259	Yeah, that's the way it is. I'll tell you two minutes before I pick on every member of parliament who demands it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0672par0260	I've been here three years, first time, first time.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0674par0261	Yeah, that's the way it is. Here you are, Mrs. Gulizar.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0675par0264	There's such a thing as shame. How do you manage it?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0265	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on this bench just now, we have the highest, most unbecoming, most civil and the will of a female MP to the MPs representing the nation in Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0677par0267	You're using what you didn't just give to the MHP people, and now you're using it to CHP, what the hell is that? You didn't just ask for an MP from the MP.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0268	You've heard some really amazing, insulting words. He said, "Chahalet" to the deputy of the nation. He said, well, let me be clear, we're not going to learn about democracy from the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0678par0271	Respect, respect the thought.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0272	He said, "We have just learned from the mouth of the ruler on this bench who has those evil thoughts." [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's a buttoned-up jacket. Thankfully, we have a president in the Republican People's Party who doesn't bow down to anyone in front of the President General, that's not the attitude of any Republican People's Party deputy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0679par0275	For God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0276	But we're all witnesses to all the Justice and Development Party MPs who've been bowing down in front of them, who've been blasphemous to the nation, who've been kicking the crap out of the nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] (sing) Don't be a fool (sing) (sing)
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0679par0279	We want a word of bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0280	Yes, complete surrender... there is freedom of thought in the Republican People's Party, everyone... you have the perfect surrender, you are the ultimate surrender.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0680par0282	What's that got to do with it? Get out of here, come on!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0283	Don't pick on me. We've seen why you've removed the Istanbul Convention in the words of the veteran just now.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0681par0286	Yes, thank you, Mr. Karaca.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0287	Violence, and in Parliament, human rights...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0681par0288	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0676par0289	I'm saying we've just seen the image of a mind attacker here. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0681par0292	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0682par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0681par0294	Mr. Rootsal, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0683par0296	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0684par0297	You can't show the CHP what you just did to the MPP. It's not justice, it's not justice.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0685par0298	Give me another one, give me another one! You're not objective, Mr. President, you're biased!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0686par0299	Mr. President, no one has the right or the right to speak to our third president, Mr. Bulent Ecevit. He is Ecevit, who does not submit to American imperialism.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0687par0301	Speak without shouting!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0686par0302	He is Ecevit, who said, "No one can decide what to sow in Afyonkarahisar. "
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0688par0304	Scream, shout! Louder!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0686par0305	O Ecevit, we have not written nationalism on the streets walls, but on the land of Cyprus, on the sea beds of the Aegean, on the fields of opium of Afyon. Get out of here, get out of here! Know your place! A member of the court's parliament elected by the court cannot challenge the elected MPs here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0688par0306	People chose us, people! Know your place!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0686par0307	I always say, be like you who are afraid of you. Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0688par0308	People chose us. Who chose you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit06spe0689par0309	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, calling the Deputy Group Presidents in the back.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0689par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the discussions of the 2020 Central Management Competitive Accounting Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Commission? He's in position. Congressmans, as you all know, this is the 11th day of the budget. All my congressman friends, my group presidents, representatives of the administration, we've had a really busy shift, and we're all tired. Therefore, I feel that my fellow speakers, lawmakers, should refrain from insulting remarks of another member of parliament or another group; I think another group should avoid provocative, instigating words, and I would like to remind you of the 67th article of the Civil Code. ▪ Anyone who speaks rude and hurtful words in the General Assembly immediately invites the President to speak in a clean language, although he insists he does not use a clean language. If the president sees the need, he can remove anyone from the hall in that merger. He says the Civil Code. I'm not a friend of yours who finds it so right, so I'm not a friend of yours who likes to apply these rules to lawmakers who represent the nation in this way, because we sat together for years. Therefore, I would like to avoid the actions and words that would allow me to use this relevant clause of the Civil Code. In addition, the commission, the political party group or MPs, who have been assigned a different opinion, which, according to Article 69 of the Interior Charter, has been taunted or suggested, may be able to make statements and respond. For explanations and answers, the president appreciates the time to make promises in the same session. We've closed the session, we're in a new session, together. So I'm not going to promise another friend what happened to us, and we're going to continue our talks from where we left off. And from now on, I'd like to ask you again to be more careful. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Yes, the talks for the group were complete. Now we're going to talk on behalf of the individuals. The first statement is from Balıkesir MP Belgin Uygur. Here you go, Mr. Uygur.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0690par0021	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly, our beloved nation, and my Balıkesirli countrymen. And at the very beginning of my words, I call to mind the Lord, by grace and gratitude, on the 748th anniversary of his soul. There are many hopes in the plus of hopelessness, and there are many suns behind the darkness. So we set out with the strength of our nation, with the patience and the determination we received from this heritage of the Lord, the symbol of hope and courage. In spite of all the traps of guardians, coupgers and terrorist organizations under the leadership of our nation's support, our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have made the greatest move in the history of the Republic in the past 19 years. We've done revolutionary acts from education, transport, energy, social policy, defense industry, democratic rights and freedoms, and employment in all areas, with a sense of art and service politics, with a innovative and reformist perspective. We've become one of the most powerful countries in the region and the world. In the past 19 years, we've made great progress in the development and construction of our country, in the preservation and effective use of personal rights and freedoms. As a continuation of our reforms in this scope, we have carried out five judicial packages in accordance with the Judicial Reform Strategy Document announced by our President, in line with the more effective protection of basic rights and freedoms, the development of judicial independence and neutrality, and the idea of human-oriented justice. Again, we continue our work at the moment of strengthening and developing rights and freedoms in accordance with the Human Rights Action Plan, which was announced by our President with the vision of a free individual society and more democratic Turkey. Mr. President, good lawmakers, women make up half the society. In many areas, such as politics, education, economics, health, agriculture and employment, a number of revolutionary policies have been created, including freedoms and rights. We are aware of the power of women; the more women are supported, the more powerful they will become, and the more successful they will write stories, the more we are giving and supporting women entrepreneurs with our ministries; we are working to increase our women's contributions to economics, labour and employment. In addition, women are not the object of politics, they are the subject. We have increased the number of women in action from our understanding. We've removed all obstacles to the fact that women can fully exercise their right to be elected without being discriminated against. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this budget is the budget of the nation, the budget of service to the nation. With the power we receive from our nation, we will continue to serve our nation with our local and national policies, to bring new works to our country. In this period when the entire world faced the devastating effects of the coronavirus epidemic and natural disasters, we fought them successfully and continued to grow by accelerating investment, production and exports. And from now on, we will move on with our goal of investment, employment, production and export-based growth. Our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is greater than any attack on the inside and the outside, and the world is greater than the economy. The more fair world is possible. We will continue to walk towards 2023 goals on the path of 2023, with determination and determination.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0691par0029	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0690par0030	I wish our nation the best budget of 2022, and I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0691par0032	On behalf of the individuals, the second speaker is Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0692par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Today's minimum wage has pleased all of us. I thank our President, our Minister of Labour and Social Security, and our Minister of Treasury and Finance, God bless them. The Turkish nation, led by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who was severely wounded from World War I, announced to the world a hundred years ago that it was the will of the Turkish people who had won the Liberation War and then established the new republic. Again, under this blessed roof, under which we are again attacked on July 15th, under which we will continue to work for the 100th year of the Great Attack, as well as the 100th year of our republic, and as the National Movement Party today, and as the Cumhur Alliance, with our understanding of constructive politics, for the welfare of the Turkish nation, for the security of our state, and most importantly for the security of our state, for the sake of our nation. Investments, projects, support and incentives have made our city a shining star in the middle of Anatolia. The city of salvation, the land where the republic was won, the lock of Asia Minor Karahisar will be key and key in the 2023 elections, with the permission of Allah. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] The Women's Cultural Houses Project, which was the first to take place in the competition held by TİSK recently under the protection of our governor, Mr. Gökmen Cicek Bey, has been an example for our entire country. With youth centers, sports facilities and investments in our districts, such as the Afyonkarahisar football camp, our province has become the center of attraction to sports. Dear lawmakers, we have given our investors, businesses, and municipalities a huge advantage by bringing regulations for thermal tourism, greenhouses, electricity and housing heating. The opening of KOSGEB diplomatic missions in Afyonkarahisar, which will benefit all our counties, has brought hundreds of new SMEs to our province. We have provided legal solutions to the problems and demands of companies producing in the sausage industry, one of the most important productions of opiumkarahisar. With instructions from our President, Mr. State Gardener, we have listened to our citizens from all parts of the community, including NGOs, farmers, tradesmen, farmers, and industry, as part of our municipal programs. Our small tradesmen suffering during the Pandemic period have demand for zero interest interest, two years without paying, $50,000 in loans and BUGKUR bonus loans; they want to take advantage of loans provided as part of the Credit Guarantee Fund. Our farmers want long-term configuration for their debt to Agriculture Credit Co-operatives and Agriculture Bank, and we've passed on these demands to our ministers. Dear MPs, as the National Movement Party, we care about the growth, development of our country, the peace of our nation, the integrity of our state. Mr. President of the State Garden, as stated by Sir of the National Movement Party, is determined to bring our country and nation into a secure future by opening up bright horizons in front of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0693par0044	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0692par0045	With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2022 to be good for our government and our nation, and I salute you all. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] So we can talk without a fight, can't we, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0694par0048	Let this be an example to other Opiumites, who always criticize Afyon.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0695par0049	The members of the parliament have met their demands for a statement on behalf of the individuals. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. But I'd like to remind you that we're going to do the questions and answers on the 5, 6 and 7th article at the end of the 7th article. When we start the 5th article, friends who enter the system, friends who demand words, can enter the system, and at the end of the 7th article, we will do the QA. We will now begin the question-and-answer process on Article 4. Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0696par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. A coordinated work by the Turkish Armed Forces and the National Intelligence Agency has neutralized 3 terrorists in the northern part of the week in Iraq, including 1, 2 in the Peace Fountain region in northern Syria. These operations, organised by our SIHAs, are evidence of our success in domestic and national industry. Our operations will continue until PKK/YPG has neutralized all of the leaders and terrorists hiding in Iraq and Syria. Mehmet's breath is on the back of terrorists. It cannot be entered by Operation Claws. The area will be controlled by shelters, shelters, warehouses, and so-called headquarters, which have been used by terrorists for many years. I remind you that everyone who betrays this country, who shoots, who harms any of our people, especially the integrity of our country, the unity of our nation, the support of our state, has the same fate, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0697par0056	Mr. Güler...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0698par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. The art of well-being from the Turkish Islamic art of decoration has been declared by UNESCO as the common heritage of humanity. Thus, Turkey's number of items registered on the Unsubstantiated Cultural Heritage List increased to 21. So far, Turkey has registered the Mevlevi Sema tradition, the Mevlevi Sema Ritual, the Mevlevi Semah Festival, the Mevlevi Sema Ceremony Ceremony, the Mevlevi Sema Ceremony, the Mevlevi Sema Ceremony, the traditional Chinese Mastership, the Light Bread Making and Sharing Culture, the Spring Celebration, the Papa Kort Heritage, the People's Tales, the traditional Turkish Occultory, and the Maserics: The Sana Commune's Arts, and the Minculus of Solutual Culture. Now, the tradition of tea culture, traditional Ahlat stonework, telling Nasrettin Hodja jokes, and the traditional production of silk insectery and silk for weaving. And I hope these files will be evaluated by UNESCO in the 2022 cycle.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0697par0060	Mr. Karahocagil.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0699par0061	Health reform: In the last two years, we've launched 10 city hospitals capable of 15,239 beds. In the last 18 years, we've increased our bed capacity from 183,000 to 394 thousand. Today, we have increased the number of health workers in 2002 to over 1 million 101 thousand. We've raised our 58 MRI numbers to 910, 323 to 1,213, 4.891 to 18,000. We've upgraded our 112 emergency health stations from 481 to 3,000, 618 to 5.437. Our 600-bed city hospital's land of Forest Regional Directorate has been transferred to the Ministry of Health, and projects have been launched.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0697par0063	Mr. Kayishoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0700par0064	Our chairman, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, is a reason for the minimum wage today's minimum wage to go to TİİK to uncover real inflation and to protect the rights of millions of workers. Mr. Secretary says it's time to thank him, but if there's a thank-you, as it was earlier on the retirement bonus, as in the subcontractors, the workers thank our President, but this inflation, there's not much to be thankful for as long as it's raining this raise. If you can get it right and take down the inflation, stop the exchange, then you deserve to be thanked, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0697par0067	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0701par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister is: Turkey's Agriculture Credit Co-operatives are continuing their ongoing efforts to develop new credit products in an effort to boost the producer's access to financing. However, considering the demands of our farmers who have blessed our land, it is imperative that we come up with solutions. Our farmers demand an increase in loans from the co-op for bags of fertilizer and nitrogen fertilizer. Do you have any work on that? Our workers, who work for the General Directorate of Highways and the regional directorates, are being paid in different ways, even though they are doing the same job. The fact that our people are being paid on three different scales on the highways leads to victims. Will an arrangement be made to eliminate the loss of rights and motivation of staff exposed to the difference in fee? Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0702par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you say that from the day you started your mission, you've given a lot of importance to transparency, predictability, communication and trust, and these are the areas that we often stress particularly. Especially with the presidential government system, these are the areas that are the most corrupted, and we're starting every day, and we're just starting tonight with a presidential decision, and we're having a reflection of all of this in the economy. How are you going to overcome these structural problems? The issue of merit, the intervention of independent autonomous institutions, there is a serious structural problem in these matters. You've expressed your personal opinions, but will you be able to overcome these structural problems? The minimum wage has been announced today and will bring a serious burden to the budget. What's the future of the budget until you go from budget talks to the Ministry? What do you think you're gonna do, Mr. Secretary, in general? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0703par0077	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0704par0078	We have made very important arrangements to obtain more taxes, to expand the tax base, and to strengthen tax justice than our tax policies. In this scope, we raised the 20 per cent corporate tax rate to 25 per cent for 2021, 23 per cent for 2022; we added a 40 per cent new tranche to the income tax rate starting in 2020. We've given important VAT reductions in education and health and clothing and food. We've made exceptions to income tax from 2022 to the earnings of some 835,000 of our tax-taxed trades. We've given our young people who are starting a new business an exception to income tax of $75,000, minimum wage income tax and stamp tax. As these examples show, we plan and apply our tax system to the needs of all the communities, not to the benefit of a certain population. The unemployment has reached the point where history has not seen it in the administration. There was a question from a member of parliament. According to data purged from season effects in October 2021 of TÜİK (TÜİK), unemployment has been reduced to 10.7 per cent by 2.1 points compared to the same period of the previous year. The number of unemployed has been reduced by 384,000 people. Unemployment data should not be evaluated separately from employment and employment data. The rate of employment and participation in the labour force has been made significant gains this year, and losses during the pandemic period have been compensated. In 2002, our business force, which was 23.8 million, increased 29.8 per cent, reaching 30.9 million people in 2020, and in October 2021, that was 33.8 million. The number of jobs with 21.4 million in 2002 increased by 25.2 per cent in 2020 to 26.8 million in 2021, and the number reached 30.2 million in October. In secondary school, the number of vocational high schools should be increased, the education programmes should be diversified. We also had another question, our representatives. Three different types of programmes are applied in vocational and technical secondary schools, which are the Anadolu vocational programme, the Anadolu Technical Programme and the vocational Training Centre Programme. In vocational and technical secondary schools, Anadolu vocational and Anadolu Technical Programmes are trained in 105 different fields, under 47 different areas. The vocational training centre, which is an apprentice program, is taught in 181 different areas under 33 different areas. We've opened new fields and branches to respond to current needs by doing updating programmes with sector representatives. We've established new vocational secondary schools, strengthened the infrastructure of existing vocational secondary schools. We have enabled programs to be prepared for application based in harmony with new technologies and to enrich them with content and activities that will strengthen their ability to read digitally. At the same time, we conducted efforts to map Turkey's profession, encourage production under rotating capital to support practical education, and establish a quality security system.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0705par0082	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0704par0083	We continue our studies by diversifying our adult vocational training programmes. I'm supplying. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0706par0086	I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. MADDE 5- (1), as shown in the ruler of state debt, by the end of 2020; A) 1.060.353.528.687.58 Turkish Lira medium and long-term State internal debt, B) 750,355,008,674.97 Turkish lira state foreign debt, C) 151,319,270,349,52 Turkish lira guaranteed loans, Mr. Enez Kaplan, the Tekirdağ MP who has requested a statement on the 5th article on behalf of the OK Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0707par0096	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our PTA Party Group on Article 5 of the 2020 Central Management Computation Law Proposal. I salute your grand delegation and the citizens who are watching us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, your budgets so far have not solved the citizens' problems, nor will they ever be, because this year's budget has melted at least 40 per cent of the legislation. The citizen is poor, the citizen is unemployed, the citizen is desperate, the citizen is desperate for a living, but the government has buried its head in the sand, saying everything is a rose. Because economic problems are not properly determined, their solutions are incomplete and inadequate. Profits are dwindling, dollars are rising, Turkish lira is losing value every day. It reduces people's buying power, makes our citizens even poorer. Tea, you're familiar with the bagel account; the bagels are $3.5, half a bagel sales begin. In contrast, the AK PARTY manager can go out and say, "Before us, there were hungry people living in the mountains. " While the nation is paying for the road it does not cross, another deputy says: "Let him not use the old road with no money in his pocket. This is clearly a sign of a broken political understanding. Honourable lawmakers have been trying to rule the country for nineteen years, but they can't. I'm going to give you a few digits, and I haven't been able to remember which country the Minister gave you before. In 2002, the gas was $1.48, and in 2020, it went up to $10, and with this evening, it would be $11. In 2002, it was $1. 1.5, and in 2020, it was 14.5, and now it's 16. In 2002, a euro was $1.66, while today the euro reached 18 liras. Likewise, in 2002, a quarter of gold was 32 liras, and in 2021 it exceeded 1,500 liras. The loans our citizen received were $5.6 billion in 2002, while the debt was 915 billion in 2021. In 2002, the external debt was 130 billion dollars, while in 2021, it was $475 billion. These data show that -- again, I say -- the current power cannot govern the country. Turkey is ranked 21st in the index of 156 countries, among the European countries who are not satisfied with jealousy. So let this government boast its success, we are the world's poorest 21st country, and we have become Europe's 1st country in poverty; this is our new picture of Turkey. It has been very determined since the day it trapped our country in this freaky system; it is determined in poverty, determined in corruption, determined in corruption, determined in endless increases, determined in polarization, determined in lies, determined in thalana, determined in the distribution of rants, determined in the protection of allies. Dear lawmakers, the minimum wage workers are no different. In 2003, at a minimum salary of 318 liras, 22 grams of gold or 14 quarters of gold could be bought, while with increasing money, several grams of gold were purchased. We can't even get two quarters of gold at a minimum wage of $2.825 in 2021. Dear lawmakers are on the agenda for scholarships given to our college students these days. The President recently said: "When we arrived, the scholarship received by university students was 45 liras, and now it's up to $650. It is evident how much wealth has fallen, how much poverty has increased. In addition, the loans our students receive are very much paid back -- Mr. President says it's against interest on screens -- are being taken back at high interest. Millions of our students, who can't get jobs after graduation, are trying to figure out how to pay off these loans and interest. Congressmans, we call to power: This budget is not the nation's budget. The budget you took from the farmer, the worker, the officer, the student, the poor poor, and transferred to a bunch of your shareholders can't be the budget of the nation. Look, I'll give you another example: you spent about 40 billion dollars on the Syrians, you're saying it yourself. Today's pitch makes $630 billion. With this money, you could solve all the questions of pensioners, farmers, teenagers, 3600 additional indicators, EYT, minimum wage, non-assigned teachers, non-assigned health workers, all the questions of our country. The 19 motions we made during the commission talks are motions for these problems. We've calculated that it's worth about 220 billion dollars, less than half the money you've spent on the Syrians. So, this understanding of governance, the inescapableness of foreign policy, the recklessness of domestic policy, the endless waste and plundering of our country has led us to this point. The economy, which is said to fly with the presidential government system, unfortunately, has crashed to the ground; flying has been foreign currency, flying loan debt, unemployment, public debt, inflation. Yes, power flies, but it flies in the imagination. That's why we call it a improved, reinforced parliamentary system as a PDA party. Dear MPs, now I'd like to talk about a few problems with my constituency district, Tekirdağ. There have been many traffic accidents on the way to Süleymanpaşa-Hyrabolu for many years, hundreds of our citizens have been injured and killed. The name of the 54km road is called the road to death because of the accidents. The tender was made in 2019... during the budget talks last year at the General Assembly, on December 13, 2020, when the Tekirdağ Hayrabolu road was inaugurated as if it had been completed, Mr. Minister of Transport said, "Good luck to our nation." So far, 20km has been completed; last year, you performed a ceremony because we opened this road; this year, last week, you did 5km and performed a ceremony again; are you planning to complete the 54km road once every 5km in ten years? Are you going to make the road at the speed of the turtle? There's no viaducts, no bridges, no tunnels. You can't fool people with false openings on a low-employment road. At the same time, one of the other urgent ways in Tekirdağ is the road to our town of Sharköy, a tourist district, which has a growing summer population. In order to avoid traffic density, two lanes must be made immediately. And because of the irregular work of the mining fields on the Malkara-Hyrabolu road, this road has also been corrupted, it has become a threat to safety of life and property, transportation is provided by means of means. This road, too, will play a crucial role in preventing accidents that could be born in the future. These are just a few examples of our Tekirdağ's double road needs. In addition, a tender was made in 2016 for the rehabilitation of Çerçeköy district of Çororı Deresi, where there was no grant, and the reforms were still under way. Our Circeçeköy district is flooded in every rain. The work has to be started and the victim has to be compensated. Unfortunately, our province of Tekirdağ, ranked high in Turkey's tax ranking, is not getting sufficient service from roads and other investments. I repeat my expectations of resolving the shortcomings of our Tekirdağ province, making the needed routes urgent. Dear lawmakers, we say that a new Turkey is possible under the leadership of our President, Mr. Coral Akshener, and that there are no unresolved problems in our country.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0708par0108	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0707par0109	However, we are aware of the fact that all of this can be established by the rule of law, by the merit of governance, by the principle of separation of forces. Our nation should be comfortable; the good party is ready with its principles and its staff. Our nation must be hopeful; we are ready, we solve. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0709par0112	Why didn't you tell me about Hayrabolu?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0710par0113	Mr İbrahim Ethem Sedef, a member of the Yozgat MP demanding a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sedef.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0711par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 5 of the 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. I salute the holy Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly, watching us at the beginning of their screens. Members of parliament, as in all countries around the world, our country is experiencing growing global uncertainty and economic difficulties due to the outbreak of Covid-19. For this reason, exorbitant price hikes, especially food prices, are being observed. Our government is on the side of our citizens with all its resources in this difficult process. Today's minimum wage is $4,250, and it has been positive on behalf of our fellow citizens, who, with their hard work, live off their homes, and I wish them good fortune. The main problem of the production structure of many emerging market economies, such as Turkey, is the external dependence on machinery, equipment and energy, as well as the production of raw materials. The reduction of imports and resources must be directed to high areas of revenue enhancer, employment provider and efficiency. The process of growth must continue under production and exports. Our tradesman and artist complain that they can't find enough employees -- or apprentices, caliphs, and masters. The National Movement Party considers vocational training strategically important for the future of our country. Our young people are waiting for work, for food and for future in the near future. The education and upbringing of our young ones from a younger age will also accelerate the development of Turkey. The work on promoting, promoting, and encouraging vocational education should be carried out in the form of a national mobilisation. The number of vocational education schools must be increased and quality upgraded. The introduction and incentive of students and parents to vocational education must be started from elementary school. In determining the contents of vocational education programmes, the student guidance and direction should increase the activity of organised industrial areas and vocational rooms. Our children who complete their mandatory education and study outside their vocational upper secondary schools graduate at 18, 19, and turn to university education. Our industrialist, at his age, has a problem raising our young. With alternative industrial training for our college graduates, we can get them to work and work through some very fast secondary courses. For example, with a six-month course, they could be CNC operators, ERP officials. So that we can come up with a solution that prevents our young people from becoming unemployed, incompatible with the market reality. I went to all those colleges, six months of extra training, and then they might think, "Will I be wearing blue collars?" By removing the negativity of this idea, we can weigh in on the definition of the importance of professionalism and ask our industrialists to bring interpersonal fees to reasonable levels. What's fundamental here is the ability to work in human terms and wages. Our ministry of national education must be our priority to direct our children to vocational schools based on their interests. Congressmans, one of the most important issues concerned with the development of our country is agriculture and animalism. Where and how much will our farmers produce what is another matter? They represent the importance of planning it, of doing it by the hands of the government. They want the incentive of domestic and modern irrigation to be focused, noting that droughts and water shortages will deepen in later years. The factors that reduce domestic production, the continuation of climate commitment, the lack of irrigation investments, the high cost of basic inputs such as foreign medicine, fertilizer, seed, and, most importantly, agricultural production planlessness and, before our land is planted, do not reveal the Office of Earth Mahullars' over-cost price guarantee. This year, drought has especially reduced production in grain and bacliadas, and other products have affected efficiency. The price hike has been affected by droughts, floods, hails, frosts, extreme heat, weather changes and natural disasters to the climate. For four years there have been droughts throughout my constituency, Yozgat and Interior Anatolia, and the rain has dropped by a third. Entrance prices must be reduced, taxes on inputs must be removed, support must be increased. Our farmers' debts must be postponed for at least a year without interest. A country with high agricultural potential, close to export markets, such as Turkey, needs to produce wealth from agriculture. Members of lawmakers, our citizens are also very impressed by the uncontrollable increase in food prices. The Food Price Index, published by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, has seen the highest level since June 2011, with 13.4 points. It's not just our country's problem, but the whole world is struggling with an increase in food prices. Of course, there are opportunists and hoarders. For this, the market law must be passed immediately and the market chain must be freed from the sovereignty of the markets. The retail law should name these businesses as markets or supermarkets or hypermarkets or whatever they do. They're selling almost everything, creating an unfair competition. They hire with ISKUR support, pay their wages, but our grocery store, our grocery store, our butcher can't get it. How will they compete? We need to ask that question. The Office of Agriculture Credit Co-ops and Earth crop should set up a supply chain for our markets outside their own stores. The stock market needs to be supplied, the food market needs to be created, the price of the goods should be set, the price shouldn't be left at the mercy of the markets. Our municipalities need to work on co-op to ensure that both production and production of products reach consumers in the shortest possible way. Our tradesmen and artists must postpone a year, without interest, and grant 36-month-old life-water loans. Members of parliament, our citizens who live in the district of Yenifakılı district of Yozgat, my constituency district, have made great efforts to build the university and its municipality-based dorm building with the help of the people of the district. On behalf of our fellow citizens, we request that the education year be made up of the necessary planning and the admission of students to the university of Yenifakilı district. The X-ray devices found at the hospital in Aydıncık district are in need of renovation. If our countrymen are in the dental hospital, they say they don't have an X-ray device, they want a solution, and they're also waiting for us to turn our district into a natural gas. Our Sarikaya residents are asking for a closed-water project from Yejasaray Pond. Project and CED work are waiting for the Hasbek Dam to be put into investment programme, and Sarikaya Bath site is also needed for publicisation. The mayor of the Interrogation wants to give our county a sports camp center and a swimming pool that inner Anatolia clubs can use at a cheap cost. Their project is ready, and we're expecting support from our Ministry of Youth and Sports. The coroner's county is expecting a veterinary faculty building and a veterinary practice hospital to be built as soon as possible. The Akdağmadeni district, which includes the one-ordered forests of the Central Anatolian Region, has the potential to become the new favorite of our region as both geothermal tourism and economism. We expect good news from our Ministry of Culture and Tourism on behalf of our fellow citizens from Akdağmadeden. When I put an end to my words, in the words of our president, I say the Cumhur Alliance is the nation's mind. The presidential government system will build the future of our country, our citizens are looking for the solution to their problems again in the Republic Alliance, and I say he has complete confidence in this national alliance. I wish the 2022 budget to be a blessing to all our ministries, our country and our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0712par0125	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0711par0126	I wish our budget to be good, and with news I received before giving a speech, I learned that our Vice President Sadir Durmaz Bey, the esteemed father of Mr. Ibrahim Durmaz, had passed away. I ask God's mercy and patience for Mr. Sadir Durmaz and for his family and for his loved ones. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0712par0129	Şırnak MP Mr. Hussein does not run away after demanding a statement on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Never Run.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0713par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we live in a time when fraud has broken the record of all time. Even if falsehood, falsehood, and slander attack truth, it will never win, says Franz Kafka. A few days ago, as we said in the Ministry of Interior's budget talks on December 8th, I was exposed to the Home Secretary's slander, but within a few days, it became clear to us what kind of slander we were facing. Dear MPs, the Home Secretary has been arrested by a raid from here on the morning of December 8th." for a murder in Cizre. However, it turned out that the detention was taken on December 7th, not December 8th, but again in the house of the Regent. As I stated for the person he called Huseyin, neither in my house nor in my family's house, nor in any house, it was discovered that he had not been taken into custody, and it also came out on December 9th, with the statement of Şırnak Governor's statement. And it also turns out that the killer is Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the person he calls a member of YPS is also a work of slander because the person in question is a member of the HDP Youth Assembly. He was a guy who went to the police department and signed off on a one-day-a-week forensic check. If a Home Secretary, even a minister of this country, tells such a clear and clear lie, I leave it to the public conscience. Of course, as we say, the governorship has confirmed what I've said, right here, I'll show you right now, in the press release of Şırnak Governorate, everyone can go in and see it, it's on his page right now. Sure, it's not over. He's clearly slandered here, Minister, as we say, he didn't even say that he didn't have the right to not be tainted or even the innocence of the court, he didn't even say that he was suspicious, but on December 11th, three days after that slander, he came to Cizre and I share his statement: we will find out who did this trick. Of course, it's not over, it's this conspiracy that got into their faces, their eyes, and they didn't just give up. No quick surrender in evil, but they have shown it once again. What happened? This time the people in custody... dozens of our friends have been taken into custody, our party manager friends have been taken into custody, and, again, my brother, who is a party member, has been taken into custody. And for whatever reason, on December 11th, the day the Home Secretary was in Şırnak, my brother was brought to the courthouse in a rush to testify that he had nothing to do with it, not to show any favour, which lawyers know, not in catalog crimes, but for six months, what did the Home Secretary's lie to make this slander acceptable to the public this conspiracy, this manipulation, this perception that they couldn't explain to the public this time? As I said, they put such a plan into action, and only my brother was brought to the courthouse and my brother was arrested while the Minister of Interior was in Şırnak. It wasn't enough that they used the law enforcement force to continue this conspiracy, this conspiracy this time through the prosecutor and the judge. It's just that my brother was actually arrested for the title, and let me be clear, right now my brother is the victim, the hostage, and a lot of other officials know about it. I'm afraid my brother's being arrested just to serve this kind of news to the press while the Şırnak Governor's office has confirmed what I've said. Because right now, thousands of our friends are inside holding the victim as a political hostage. Of course, about the case... as we said, this arrest was served three minutes later, three minutes after the verdict was made. So, what happened before? There's a first report on December 7th at 13.26; a call that doesn't really have an lining, no place, no time, but whatever the wisdom is, a person within eye range is not being taken into custody in any way. Because the original plan was to hand over the photo to HDP MPs on the morning of December 8th -- as the Home Secretary said -- we caught the killer this morning. But Allah doesn't have a stick. They say that this time, by chance, the plan changed after our party manager friends went to my brother's house to study for the convention on December 11th. And after we get out of the house, our party manager friends -- they're probably on the phone later -- are being taken into custody immediately. On the evening of December 7th, detention is being held clearly, but it was called December 8th, to make it more sensational. Of course, it wasn't enough, on the morning of December 8th... let me make it clear that some MPs, the ruling MPs, still contradicting what I said on TV the other night -- against these clear statements -- continue to slander me as if I were hiding a murderer in my house. Let me be clear, dear lawmakers: I told you on the first night, and now I'm telling you, there has been no detention at my family's house or any of my relatives' houses, which is clear. However, I'll tell you this: The person who was taken into custody was our friend, the member of the party youth council, and a man who was declared a murderer here before his testimony was taken. However, let me share this -- I think we can all agree on this -- that if Suleyman Nobles thought that I was hiding a suspect in my house, he wouldn't have let law enforcement do the raid just for that political show, he would have pulled the cameras, and he would have made the raid. You all know that, but he came here that day, undermining the law, undermining the conscience, making such a slander. Of course, when the statements were taken in the file -- as we say -- there's a bogus tip being made -- that I can share with those who want it, that you can clearly see how the plot is being drawn up right now -- and then this report at 13:26, which was created at 13:26, is not going to be held despite a false, bogus tip, because, as I said, it was for the morning of December 8th, the day of the interior ministry's budget, it's going to be more sensational. Again, we caught the murderer, we had a photo of him with HDP MPs. But I think it would be more sensational if we said that we caught him this morning at the home of HDP MP Hüseyin Kozamaz, who staged this scenario. They said, "I think that's the plan, because after the first arrest, after the first detention process, there was another report at 23:12. But there was not a single word of murder in either of the two reports. Only on December 8th, 00.41, just after midnight, a third tip was made, a report that had nothing to do with the other two calls, and this time a direct statement was used directly related to the murder. On that day, I told the Minister, and look, it shouldn't be so easy. You can hate us, you can hate us, you can think of us as enemies, but I used to say, why should people be brave? That's why, Mr. President, that's why, because the Minister came out here just so he wouldn't answer the questions about himself. There, their family, their tribe, may have brought thousands of people to a point where they could hold each other against each other, and so far he hasn't even come out and apologized. Of course, in this case, law enforcement is still being used for this conspiracy, and the prosecutors and judges are trying to fabricate false evidence, and once they've got it on their faces. As we said, the noble has resorted to this conspiracy to avoid answering questions about himself. Of course, was he the only one who threatened us with this? Is this danger only for us? No. Now, for 84 million citizens, this proves that everyone's safety in life and property is actually at stake. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0714par0141	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0713par0142	Of course, as we say, it's not just our business, is it just our threat? He has previously threatened the ruling representatives with an indirect -- almost reminiscent of their name. In the television program, the shoeboxes and the counting machine were not found in my children's home. He threatened power in the form of a money-counting machine, and I will explain the MP who received $10,000. In fact, he threatened power. Therefore, you are aware of it, but you are silent. This silence won't only apply to us, but to you. This slander, this lie, has been revealed, but your silence will take place in history. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0714par0145	Mr. Cavit Bee will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Bee.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0715par0148	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the 5th Article of the Final Account Law Proposal in 2020. As of the end of 2020, the government's internal debt of 1 trillion, 60 billion, 350 million euros, dear friends, in 2020 the state's foreign debt is about 700 billion, 400 million dollars, and the amount of guaranteed debt is 150 billion, 300 million dollars, so as of 2020, the state debt is around $2 trillion. Because of AKP's poor rule of the country, because of its incompetence, our country's debt is increasing day by day, hour by hour, by minute. The debt was raised to 2.3 trillion by October 2021. The government's debt is 3.5 trillion dollars for the increase in currency. People know that the AKP no longer sees or hears the truth or understands it, but understands it, and ignores everything, ignores it, mocks the nation. On September 5, 2021, the government announced a medium-term plan, which was $8.31, when that statement was made. The day the budget came to the Plan and Budget Commission, the dollar was $9.30, and the day the talks began in this Parliament on December 6th was $13.5, which is December 16, which is $15.5. So, as you can see, the dollar's doubled before two months are even up. The total of $446 billion in foreign debt increased by $223 billion today due to the loss of 50 per cent of value in the last month alone. In the last six months, for example, Turkey's external debt for $446 billion and $900 billion increased to 6 trillion 900 billion euros today when the TL (TL) lost its fast value, for example, on June 30th. If you ask, what's the difference? Two budgets, such as the budget for 2021, have only increased due to this currencie in dollars, so you've loaned Turkey twice the size of the budget. Such a difference of courtship has been burdened by you on our nation's backs. Another burden has been imposed on the worker, the officer, the farmer, the student, the industrialist, everyone because of your poor economic management. According to a year ago, prices in our citizens' basic supplies have increased by 100 percent. The milk, which is $3, went up to $3, $18 in the market today, a box of eggs went up to $36 in the market, and the meat at $50 went up to $100 in the amount of meat, which is $55 today, and the diesel at $6 today is over $10 in gas, and the tube at $120 was up to 220. Thanks to you, retired, shopkeepers, farmers are miserable, citizens are confused about how to live, what to do. The citizen was not happy with the minimum wage because the raises continue on one side, the increase in dollars, the increase in currency. It began to melt without the minimum wage announced today. Until 2002, when the AKP came to power, there was a $779 billion budget spent by all governments. With these expenses, countless dams, factories, schools, bridges, thousands of miles, all made by the state budget. During the AKP period, $2.5 trillion was spent, dear friends, but many investments were made today by you. The investments you're trying to brag about are projects of public-private cooperation. For example, the third Bosphorus Bridge, Eurasia Tunnel, Osmangazi Bridge, Istanbul Airport, Zafer Airport, highways; all of these are investments in public-special cooperation. I mean, I'm asking you on behalf of our citizens where you're spending so much money. And you know by the end of 2024, there's a $190 billion budget burden on the government due to these guarantee payments. With the increase in exchange, this burden continues to grow daily, and you sold almost all the factories, and you ran out of factories to sell. Now, dear friends, with these privatisations from 1986 to this side, 70 billion revenues have been made, and almost most of these sales have been made during your time in power. Now that the factories are finished, what do you have left? You've got valuable land left, so it's time to sell it on valuable land. In the period of the plague, life almost stopped in this country, everything stopped, not even the House often worked, but not a single thing stopped; the sales of this treasure, the land sales, you continued these sales at the latest speed. From the declaration of the Republic to this day, many factories built under those difficult conditions have been sold one by one by your power. Now, national real estate and TOKI continue to sell public land parcels. 1,500 acres will be sold by the end of the year. In 2022, there are also official records of preparations for the sale of 5,542 subsidiaries by these institutions. Dear friends, what are you doing? You're not leaving a place we haven't sold in this country. (CHEERING) You're selling all the parcels, are you going to run away, or what's the rush? Whatever the two institutions find by the end of the year -- look, whatever they find is public land -- you sell fields, lawns, raw land. As I said, in 72 cities next year, 5,542 is on a non-movable sales calendar. We said, "Where's $128 billion?" You couldn't answer a word for months, days and days, but I'm guessing today the people who bought those dollars put them on their feet, they're enjoying the increase in dollars as they sip their coffee, because they're winning every minute. Look, one of the most important and strategic of these sales is the ports. Now, in the coming days, you're trying to extend the deadlines for the resale of ports, the operation, and one of them is the Port of Antalya. We still have six years left on the operation of the Port of Antalya. Again, a Qatar firm, the Qatars, took the Port of Antalya last year, bought it for $140 million for seven years of business, we still have six years to go, but you're trying to pass another nineteen years with the law you passed. Dear friends, ports are strategic places. It's not right to rent these places for long periods of time, to transfer businesses. Also, look, if there's a tender at the end of the day -- if there's a tender in the circumstances -- maybe there's a chance it'll go higher, but you're trying to hand it over to the current tenants with offers.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0716par0162	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0715par0163	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Now, Antalya Harbor is a very strategic place in terms of the Antalya trade, but look here, after these Qatars have bought it, it's being used at high prices because it has a very high right to operate here. For example, when Izmir is going to $3.20 in Mersin, Antalya is being paid a high amount of service, like $7.35 in service, which seriously disrupts the Antalya trade because Antalya exporter has to be directed to İzmir (Izmir) or Mersin. Come, I say give up this era of ports and especially the port of Antalya; ports are our strategic places, I say turn back from this decision. Thank you all. With respect and love.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0717par0169	Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0718par0170	Mr. President, thank you. We've just been informed of the speech of Mr. KHP, Mr. Sadir Durmaz's beloved father, Hakk. We ask for God's mercy on our uncle İbrahim Durmaz, we ask for patience for his family, and we offer our condolences to the National Movement Party Group, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0717par0172	We, the Court, ask for patience with his family, and say, "May God have mercy on you."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0719par0173	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll say it on the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0717par0174	Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0720par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. I've only just learned of the death of Mr. Sadir Durmaz's father, deputy leader of the National Movement Party and Ankara MP Sadir Durmaz. I offer my condolences to him, to his grieving family, and to his loved ones, that God may have mercy on him. Thank you, sir. Mr. Toğrul, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0721par0179	Thank you, Mayor. We, too, wish the family condolences and patience for the loss of the vice president's father of the nationalist movement party. And our condolences to the nationalist movement community. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0722par0182	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0723par0183	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Sadir Durmaz, the father of our Ankara MP, who has long been disturbed, has received the mercy of our uncle Hajji İbrahim Durmaz. So we got the news, and we got upset. We wish him God's mercy, and we wish him heaven. We also offer our condolences to our president, his family, and our community. In the meantime, we'd like to thank our groups in the House who have been kind enough to express their condolences. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0724par0187	Thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, the Kayseri MP who requested a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0725par0196	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we have first learned from the statements of our Yozgat MP, who was just speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party. The Vice President of the National Movement Party has received the mercy of our dear friend Sadir Durmaz Bey. I offer my condolences to both the Durmaz family and to the National Movement Party community and to all members of the Assembly of Turkey for the loss of the father of a dear brother of the Grand National Assembly. Dear friends, the reason I'm coming out of this stand is to share with you the activities of the Asgarial Price Tespit Commission, which has occupied the public's agenda for nearly a month-and-a-half of the minimum wage announced by our President at about 3:30 p.m., but I'd also like to respond in some way to the statements of our two congressmen who have just spoken. First of all, our HDP MP, Hüseyin Elmaz, who spoke for him, was a slander about our Home Secretary. He was lying. He said different things -- like -- as he swore -- he meant different things. On the first day or on the second day of these budget talks, he tried to express or say the same in a different way here today, both on the stand and on the QA. Dear lawmakers have made a statement concerning the arrest of a murderer in the home of the concerned MP's brother. They said it was right or wrong. You're slandering the Minister from here. You're lying. I don't think it's fair to insult the Ministry of Criminal Affairs. The speech the MP has made here, the statements of hatred and hatred, the speech he's made in a way that complements a lot of things, the way that Mr. Sulejman Nobleman Nobleman, during his Ministry, brought the PKK terror organization to its knees, [[Laughing from HDP rows]] For God's sake, why are you making noise when you say "PKK"?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0726par0202	We laugh, we laugh.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0725par0203	I'm not telling you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0727par0204	That's because you're all connected to the PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0725par0205	I'm not telling you, why are you being so touchy? Please, don't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0727par0207	If we tell him, he goes into propaganda, and every time you go out, you talk about PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0725par0208	As of December 8th, the PKK's terrorist organization kneeled down to 165 PKK people within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, and again, as a result of its activities by the Ministry of Interior, in the last few days, the failure of 10-15 members of the terrorist organization inside and outside Turkey, it seems that the major achievements of the Minister's anti-terrorism have been unnecessary to anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0728par0210	Mr. Secretary, what are we talking about? It's over.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0727par0211	Your Home Secretary's heroin, marijuana, cocaine, powdered sugar, all of Turkey's achievements are known.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0725par0212	You know, he said a nice thing: I like the enemy to be brave, too.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0727par0213	Tell us about Colombia, tell us about Venezuela, tell us about the port of Mersin...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0725par0214	I have known Solomon nobleman for a long time; we have served together as legislators; we have been in MYK; Solomon is a noble man; he is a clear man; he is a pain in the ass of the PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0729par0216	What we say is that it's a pain in the ass for the Turks, it's a pain in the ass for Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0730par0217	It's a pity, Solomon, that you take care of the noble. It's a shame.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0725par0218	Dear lawmakers, Mr. Cavit Bee has just expressed a matter of ports. Antalya MP, I understand your sensibilities. As the Industrial Commission negotiated that bill...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0731par0219	Tell them about Sezgin Baran Korkmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0732par0220	Congressman...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0731par0221	Tell them how you sent Sezgin Baran Korkmaz out of the country.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0732par0222	Congressman, excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0731par0223	Let the president tell you about Sezgin Baran Korkmaz, and tell no story.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0733par0224	In one article, it was a matter of privatisation of ports, and I'm guessing that our Congressman actually understood the issue, but he tried not to express it here as he understood it. Look...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0731par0225	Tell them that you brought Baran Korkmaz from outside. You interfered when America asked you to, you didn't; tell me about it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0733par0226	Oh, friends, please... please. I'm not telling you anything, I'm telling PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0731par0227	We're not telling you, we're telling the Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0734par0228	You're telling us.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0733par0229	Why are you being so touchy? Why are you being so touchy when you say "PKK"?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0731par0230	And we're not telling you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0733par0231	You're not my target.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0735par0232	You don't call us PKK, you talk to us, you talk to us about our deputy's speech.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0733par0233	Mr. Cavit Bee...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0736par0234	He's the minister of crime, crime!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0737par0235	We're not telling you, we're telling heroin, we're telling drug dealers, we're telling cocaine dealers. We're not telling you, we're telling the people who are leading the heroin trade.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0738par0236	Mr. Coachyugit...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0739par0237	Mr. Cavit Bee, look, about the Port of Antalya, a number determined by international assessment agencies to begin today's value, starting with the end of the tender...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0740par0238	She talks all the time!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0739par0239	It'll be said that the company, the company, is worth this much to us. If you accept this, if you accept the offer we made, and it's not the first port we've passed on, including investments that have been made so far -- now or today -- with the machine equipment and capacity we're now handing over -- will you accept this offer, and if they accept it, will you accept it or not? The contract can be made, but it may not be accepted.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0741par0240	Make the tender. Mr. President, why isn't there a tender?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0739par0241	There is no end of the contract.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0741par0242	No, why don't you bid?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0739par0243	He may or may not accept a contact. It's as if we've put this proposal on the rule of law, that you're making the limans go after this, that you're going after this...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0742par0244	You're rolling.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0741par0245	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0739par0246	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0742par0247	You're going after Qatar.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0739par0248	Dear friends, in that clause -- I don't know if you were in the commission -- with investments made...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0742par0249	We're there.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0743par0250	So bid on it, why don't you bid on it? Why are you measuring international firms?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0742par0251	We know it all, you're going after Qatar. And you're giving away the land for free.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0744par0252	...the last number to be passed on, including the total capacity of the railway, is whatever the value of 19 years from now... it's possible to come from the past to the present value, but there are mathematical accounts to find the value of the future. And right now, the world's most noticeable industry in the pandemic process is the logistics industry. Today, when the logistics sector is faced with a very intense demand for the most important price, the firms have proposed this with an offer from Antalya Harbor, and other ports as well, and they have refused. They're trying to create a parallel to our proposal of the law for his forty-nine years earlier.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0745par0253	There's no trial, there's no trial!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0742par0254	The vault is full, we want money. Say it!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0744par0255	In that sense, hopefully, I'll try to explain this next week when we'll see each other. When it comes to minimum wage, the minimum wage is around $4,250, net. Now, the net wage increase is 50.51 per cent; the gross increase rate is 39.87 per cent. The gross increase rate, I call it, is up to 50.51, from $2.826 to $4.250, but we're getting $447.30 on the employer to meet the central management budget. The minimum wage on normal conditions would be $4,250 net, which would cost the employer $6,327, but now, with the arrangement, it would cost the employer $5,879. We, along with a change in Article 23/3 of income tax law -- I think it should be Article 23/3 -- with a change in the Mark Official Law again, hopefully as we've explained the law proposal at 3:30 p.m., our Minister of Labour and Social Security has been working in the back for three or four hours with the Deputy Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of State and Bureaucracy. I hope, I hope, that tomorrow we will give the Grand National Assembly of Turkey the final point of our work. I believe political party groups will contribute to the meeting of the Plan and Budget Commission on Monday and to the drafting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before 2022 as soon as possible, and I have full faith. With this blessing, I hope that we will enjoy the joy of sharing this good news with our minimum - paying brothers and sisters as we go to 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0742par0257	The minimum wage melted and melted as we talked.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0744par0258	And I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0746par0260	Mr. President, Elistash, I'd like to make it clear to our group...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0744par0261	It would be better if you added your number.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0746par0262	I've been telling the PKK many times, and I'm telling you, why are you being offended? He probably didn't tell the British Workers' Party or a party in Cuba, so it's obvious what he told us. I want to talk about bullying. He also pointed to us and said: "Your great accomplishments are disturbing someone.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0747par0264	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0746par0266	Mr. President, I congratulate him on his performance today. Turkey tried to clear the case of the Roboski massacre that could not be solved. That was not enough, but now Solomon has defended the Minister of the Interior, who is probably his partner. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Süleyman has to answer all questions about Soylu, and indeed our deputy has made a very simple speech, just the legal process. Your Home Secretary, yes, is a minister of crime, the Minister of Interior is a slanderous minister, the Minister of Interior is a lawless minister. He has declared a citizen in custody a murderer and staged a plot to frame our deputy the day he arrived. I-I've read the case file myself- I'll follow it up, and I promise I'll bring it all back to you deputies. I wish you hadn't defended him, but obviously your relationship is deep, and you've done these things together, or you wouldn't be bothered. (HDP applauses) So a Home Secretary is trying to prevent the discussion of crimes against him each year by targeting a deputy from this bench. Now, yes, let me tell you this: Plato has a book that everyone reads, a book called the State. There Plato calls the lie that the government deliberately fabricated for him a lie. Isn't that a coincidence? Plato saw you two thousand and five years ago. And then there's your nobleman, whose life is a lie! What is his relationship to the noble today, I ask you, has Sezgin Baran Korkmaz hosted or not? Did he extend Peker's protection or not? Answer dozens of questions like this as partners.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0748par0270	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Mr. Special, come in. It's better if our group presidents get into the system because we're in trouble.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0749par0273	Mr. President, thank you. We are happy, when we say "caserona staff" and then can't do it on the agenda of Turkey. We are as happy as we were when we were at the point where we were happy, you can't pay 2 salaries to the pension. On November 1st, as those who said, "We're happy today, as we were at the day when the TRT share was lifted. We are as happy as we were at today's law. What we've been saying over the years, a situation that's been in our party's election statements all the time since today, will be resolved in a certain amount -- not as much as we say -- with the contributions of the parties. We care deeply about removing the tax from minimum wage; not removing the stamp tax, the income tax; but excusing them from the minimum amount of everyone's income is both for equality and justice, and that's our approach from the start.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0750par0276	If you'd seen the substance, then you'd know it wasn't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0751par0277	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0749par0278	I'll finish it. I have to make an important contribution here. We are the Legislative Assembly, supposedly separate forces; today, the head of the administration is coming up, and it says: "The tax for the stamp has not been lifted." In this regard, we expect the High Assembly to appreciate our view at the point of removal of these taxes. Instead of using the careful language he will say, it will be written tomorrow, I say, "Look, the instruction of the work." They are supposed to be unable to offer the law. It will be written tonight, it will be given tomorrow, it will be discussed by plan and budget, it will be discussed by the sovereign nation without conditions. The MPs will use this authority in the name of the nation, but the declaration: the Damga tax has been lifted. We will underline the coup that this system is taking on the national will of the constitutional amendment to the regime.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0751par0281	Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, let me rephrase this: minimum wage is good, good luck, and I hope it comes in handy. Regarding the matter, on November 26th, Mr. President stated that the minimum wage should be $4,000, and that day the dollar was $12.1. Now, I'm talking about the dollar, we can't index the dollar, they're going to say the minimum price. But there are different parameters, so let's talk about them. Today, the dollar is close to $15.70, so I don't think this minimum wage is enough, but it has responded to a social expectation, and I thank those who have done the work. Now, also, the government assumes a responsibility for income and stamp tax, and they say they have work on it. We'll see what kind of work they do when they bring the offer to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. When we expressed these things, we also requested a $500 allowance, as well as a minimum fee of $4,000, which was announced today at around $450. So the opposition is a good thing.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0753par0286	If you remain in constant opposition... you're contributing to us.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0287	Opposition is a good thing, sometimes it's a theme with guidance. I want to thank the ruling group for listening to the voice of opposition. Now, there's only so many retirements, you know; there's an SGK pensioner, there's a BUG-KUR pensioner, the Retirement Chest...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0754par0290	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0291	I will, sir, but I've been listening for six or seven hours, and I'm going to ask for some leniency.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0754par0292	Okay. It's about minimum wage; we'll do the general assessment at the end.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0293	I'm taking it in general. Besides the minimum wage...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0754par0294	But we're going to do the general assessment at the end, that's what I'm trying to say, at the end of the material. Minimum wage...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0295	I get it, then I'll pass.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0754par0296	It's about the words of Mr. Elitas.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0297	Thank you so much, so you're saying you're gonna make another promise, so I'm taking it out on that, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0754par0298	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0299	You know, there's all kinds of pensions, pensions under the minimum wage. Again, we expect the government to take steps to ensure that there will be no pension under the minimum wage if it listens to the voice of the opposition. Besides, there's all kinds of teaching, just like retirement; staffed, paid, contractual. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm gonna need another minute of your time.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0754par0302	All right, let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0752par0303	The salaries of paid and contract teachers are now below the current minimum wage. So the government will continue to listen to the voice of the opposition again, we wish and hope. That's all the minimum wage I have to offer for now, but here's the biggest courtship crisis in the history of the Republic. We recommend that minimum wage be assessed not in annual periods, but in three months' periods, if possible, to eliminate the loss of revenue due to inflation due to currency awareness. Thank you for now, and I salute the General Assembly. Again, I thank you for your leniency.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0754par0305	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0755par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Negotiations between social parties, which started on December 1st, resulted in a 50 per cent increase in minimum wage and a net 4.250 TL. This result, Mr. President, was shared with the public at his meeting today. Due to this work, we would like to thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, all of the finance bureaucracies, social parties, especially our President, who has been involved in this matter. In fact, we are not going to crush our employees with this inflation. With this explanation, our society has seen the response to the statement, which is extremely important. It appears to be the highest increase in 50 years. It is also important to announce that as of New Year's Eve, a minimum wage income and stamp tax will be lifted. This has just been expressed, but it's a social decision again. So it's also been explained here that the will of society is acting in this way, that the demand of social parties, especially relevant segments is happening at this point, so there's no way to talk about a personal decision at this point; it's a matter of compromise. Of course, it is the High Assembly that will carry it out. And hopefully, we'll take the same steps as we do in the coming process, and we'll all take them together.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0756par0311	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0755par0312	Sure. As the National Movement Party, we have been sharing for many years, especially with our community, our community, our party's commitments, and it's a right step. It is very important that this step took place today, because it reduces the employer's burden by the employer as much as $450, as Mr. Elitas has explained. It is an important measure that pleases the worker at this point, but is taken at the point of preventing a large burden from being placed on the employer. We wish our nation the best for our country. Again, in the same way, for our pensioners and for our officers, and for other employees, I repeat our belief that the necessary measures will be taken when the time comes, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0757par0315	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0758par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. The minimum wage debate; yes, negotiations have been held since December 1st. In fact, we presented our proposals and proposals for minimum wage in the Plan and Budget Commission, and I'd like to remind you first of that. We've submitted motions to remove income tax and stamp tax from minimum wage during the Commission phase, but the ruling group and its partner rejected these motions in a way we're accustomed to. With a 50 per cent increase to minimum wage, today's statement showed once again that our motions were actually adopted and confirmed by the ruling side. It's important to make arrangements, but it's good news that the ruling group and Mr. Finance Minister thank you very much. So once here, at this General Assembly, opposition parties -- of course, we've said that in intensity, our economic commission has been in the field for months. We gave all our demands, our legal proposal, even on April 2, 2021, but now outside the House, outside the parties, out there, you know, around the palace, they're being served and it's like we didn't ask for them, we don't know, we don't argue. And I would certainly like to say that I do not respect the will of the people and the will of the House. Mr. President, here's the other thing: it's, in fact, a case of good news exploitation, and I'm sorry to say it, so I'm even getting the good news of exploitation. That's not enough for a life of human honor, because what's important is, can these raises be endured?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0759par0320	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0758par0321	So let's see how much they'll spend, how much they'll rent, how much they'll give, how much they'll give, how much they'll pay, how much they'll charge, how much they'll give. I'll give you a number account: 2021, so it's not over yet, but the minimum wage was $2.825, the bread was $1.25; 2,250. At 4,250, the price of bread is $3, 3.5; 1,417 bread can be bought in some places, so the increase is actually melting in the face of raises. Gas is up 56 cents right away. It's spooned and scooped back. With the raises in the markets, unfortunately, it will melt and disappear. Of course, layoffs need to be banned, and the issue is not just to be prepared in the ruling group, outside, in Fivetepe, but the important thing is to reflect the representation of the people's will with the participation of all parties here.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0759par0324	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0758par0325	I'd also like to remind you that the dollar is now $15.67. This raise in exchange for dollars is already melting fast.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0759par0326	Okay. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0760par0328	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Free Private just used a statement, "Why does the President explain?" The minimum wage detection commission is a commission set up by law. It consists of 15 workers, 5 employer and 5 government representatives. They hold four meetings, they vote at the end of the 4th meeting, they decide. In the event of equality of votes, the president, the Minister of Labor and Social Security, or his assistant, is considered an extra vote. Mr. President, Chairman of the Justice and Development Party. President of the Justice and Development Party, Mr. President called me today, demanding that the minimum wage be paid $4,250 lira and work on the removal of minimum wage taxes, both the stamp tax and the removal of income tax. We've already stated from here, from the podium, that the head of the Justice and Development Party, the Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Coral Akşener, who is not a member of the Party, but is able to direct his consultation with the Deputy Chairs of the Group, and Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the leader of the Justice and Development Party, tells the Group to do so. As a matter of fact, we started that study here with our fellow bureaucrats, Mr. Secretary, starting at 3:30, and it just ended, and I want to say that I shared it. I mean, do this to the Parliament of Mr. President, not to the Parliament. In the framework of a system we understand and believe in, my President gave me instructions, and I carried them out. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0761par0332	Yes, and I think it's also a good thing to see that all groups agree on this, because it will meet a social expectation. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Yes, word requests have been met on behalf of the groups. Now, we'll meet your demands on behalf of the individuals. The first statement is from Mr. Yelda Erol Gökcan. Here you go, Mr. Gökcan.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0343	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th amendment of the 2022 budget proposal. I salute the High Council and its fellow citizens. We have prepared our budget for investment, production, employment and exports; we have targeted economic development and prosperity growth, covering all parts of our society. Our country stands firm today, despite all interference from the inside and the outside. Our President, our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have grown and flourished in every area for 20 years. Despite the opposition's delusions, we've won every election we've had for 20 years. We've been budgeting for 20 years, and hopefully we'll keep doing it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0763par0347	You didn't win Istanbul!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0764par0348	What happened to the muffler, Mughla?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0349	In our time of power, as in our entire country, we have brought our citizens into important service and investments. We've invested $23 billion in our brick. We've used $8 billion in funding in the last four years.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0765par0351	Mr. President, you've just warned me about the clean language -- you've warned 66 -- but please warn me to pick on you, they're teasing me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0352	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have started a forest fire at the same time in 8 districts of our village in the summer. From the very first moment, Mr. President, we were in the field with our ministers, our MPs and our citizens. All the resources of our government have been mobilized; 50 helicopters, 15 planes, and 3 drones have intervened in the fire. Opposition failed as usual, fueled the fire.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0766par0354	We brought the helicopter to the fire.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0767par0355	Congressmans, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0356	CHP's Muğla Metropolitan Mayor performed his show in a single helicopter rented by a foundation. They took a picture in front of the helicopter and took it for two days in the sky, and they couldn't finish talking about it. And they glued a logo to the helicopter of Mughla Metropolitan City.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0768par0358	Where were you? You were walking around in your loafers, you don't know, we saw you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0359	We're going to build the burning areas and they're going to lie about intelligent fires. We didn't build the burning areas, we won't open them. (AK PARTY) We're all re-greening our Paradise Mughla. People who did not leave ashes in the barbecue did not show up for the November 11th planting campaign; they did not have mayors or MPs. (AK PARTY) Look, this is Basement Pigeons, with thousands of Muğla people at the tree planting ceremony, we were all there, and we planted the burning areas again.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0768par0360	You know that's what the flood was about, don't you, Deputy? 200 houses are covered in mud in the floods of drinking.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0361	The Metropolitan Municipality has failed again in the cleaning and sewage business. In his speech in parliament, Mr. Mugla MP of CHP claimed that our Minister of Tourism had built the sewer and infrastructure plant in Bodrum. However, the meeting of our President's 30 major city mayors, Mr. Osman Gürün, has demanded from our President, Mr. President, that our Ministry of Tourism has taken over 250m euros and laid the groundwork last year. May the basement be blessed. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Let's get on the road, you're out of class on the way. Look, this is Ula.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0769par0364	The woods are all over the place!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0365	You couldn't finish this five - mile road on the main street in Ula, and we finish the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge, the world's longest suspension bridge, in four and a half years. That's the difference between the CHP and the AK PARTY! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You've already stayed in the water, you've made our countrymen need a drop of water, our villages are dehydrated. As a city city, you also give water that is not there, which is the most expensive in the land. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for transportation, you're doing more expensive passenger transport than the CHP's İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. Your city transports are inadequate, your roads are out of order, our citizens can't even come from our villages to the district centers. And then you gave us a 25 percent raise, you screwed up our fellow citizens and students again. Since you don't do sewers and infrastructure, you're victimizing our citizens every time it rains in the Mugla and districts.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0770par0373	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0762par0374	This is Marmaris Drinking; their homes, businesses, vehicles are flooded and financially damaged. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Kilicdaroglu of the CHP, in Şanlıurfa, give us the mayorate of Şanlıurfa Metropolitan, and we will give the power to all farmers for free. Is there anyone holding your hand in the CHP? If you're sincere, let's see if we can get free electricity for our mugla farmers. It is tragic that the CHP, who cannot even manage muğla, says that it is a suitor to power. We believe and trust in the wisdom of our nation. And in the first election, we're going to put Big City in the white city. [[Applause from the AK PARTY ranks; noise from CHP rows]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I offer our deepest gratitude to our President, our ministers, and I wish our budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0771par0379	Mr. President... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Oh, dear, oh, dear! Don't you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0772par0382	Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0771par0383	Mr. President, there are two demands. One of the demands is that the MP is unable to be elected as a member of parliament because of the duty he has made. The mayor's council, as you have done, does not have a better job than you. The Turkish Metropolitan Assembly has the right to speak to the AK PARTI group spokesman; let the Muğla Metropolitan City City Council appreciate him. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Second thing: We want to use the right to answer according to 69, if you don't mind, to our muğla MPs, to our party, via our municipality. If you'll be so kind, Mr. Süleyman Girgin, our Congresswoman, will have the right to speak on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0773par0386	No, no!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0774par0387	Mr. President, he's just picking on the congressman, you have to promise him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0775par0388	He's telling the truth, the truth, you're picking on me! The truth was hard!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0776par0389	Mr. Girgin, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0777par0391	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, 670,000 hectares have been burned.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0778par0393	Tell the city! No water, water!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0777par0394	The fire came to the bottom of the thermal plant in Kemerköy, and we shouted, "Send a helicopter, send a plane." But the helicopter didn't come, and the plane didn't come, and 670,000 hectares burned.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0779par0396	Who burned it, who?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0397	We were there, there, where were you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0777par0398	Congressman, while we, the Muğla MPs, worked with the citizens in the fires, our deputy flew in the air in a helicopter; we didn't forget that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0400	We were there, where were you, you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0777par0401	I was in the fire, but the deputy watched with the governor in helicopters.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0402	You're wrong, you're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0777par0403	Let's go to the water.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0781par0404	Water, the most expensive water!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0405	We were there, you weren't there! You're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0782par0406	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0783par0407	Dear MPs, the Muğla Metropolitan Municipality is currently ranked 20th in terms of water money in Turkey's municipalities -- the cheapest -- a municipality in the 20th ranking position. If you're going to talk about water...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0408	You're wrong! You're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0782par0409	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0783par0410	The contract has been tendered in Gülluk, which so far has not been in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0411	You're wrong, you're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0783par0412	Talk about the money for water, which is $11,000 in rosettes, Congressman. Eleven thousand liras of water, 11 thousand liras. (Applause from CHP rows) The sample was tendered in Turkey, first respond to this.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0413	You were talking in the shade in your moccasins. You're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0783par0414	Congressman, you've been there, we've been with you in the fires, but you've been watching the fires by helicopter.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0784par0415	Mr. Girgin, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0416	You're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0785par0417	I thought you said there was no helicopter!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0418	I thought you said there was no helicopter!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0786par0419	Look, dear lawmakers, let me tell you something.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0787par0420	Poor Mughla!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0421	You're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0786par0422	If you want to invest in Muğla, you collect 10 lira tax on central power in Muğla, you pay 2 lira on the muğla.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0780par0424	It doesn't suit the teacher, it doesn't suit the teacher! You're wrong!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0786par0425	It's not like he's studying gazelle, except like this.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0788par0426	Thank you, Mr. Girgin.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0786par0427	Other than that, the Jesus line in Bodrum exploded. That's what City Hall did. Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0789par0428	You're wrong! You're wrong; it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0788par0429	Mr. Girgin, thank you. Please, please, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr. Barýþ Karadeniz. Here you are, Mr. Black Sea.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0440	Mr. President, my dear friends of the Court, my dear congressman...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0788par0442	Congressmans, there's a speaker on the stand, please, I beg you very much. We're tired now, so let's cover for each other, please. Here you are, Mr. Black Sea.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0444	Mr. Court, my dear President, my fellow congressmen, if we can be quiet, we'll start talking. Mrs. Yelda has just spoken, she has learned to oppose, I congratulate her. They've already gotten used to it, so give these guys a round of applause, congratulations on getting used to the opposition. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I have made a promise to announce the voice of our fishermen, who have an important place in our country's economy, who have never been worthy, who have been ignored the problems, and who are struggling to live under the economic conditions we're in today, to support their righteous rebellion. The fishing and water products industry, along with its shareholders, has reached the end of tens of thousands of people, even though the bread gate is the pride of our country in production. 40 percent of our fishermen, who can't afford it, are out of contact. What he knows best is that not being able to do what he's most successful at has made his bread unwinnable. If there is no immediate economic action plan for fishing and water products, you will be responsible for the collapse of a huge sector, remember that. If you ask me, how do you know? I am a member of the Black Sea of Sinop, a fishing town. However... Guys, while you're taking pictures, we'll tell you about the fishermen here, and we know you're not interested. Congratulations, we're talking fishermen here!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0791par0451	Look at your own deputies, they took the picture first, why don't you tell them?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0792par0452	Mr. Black Sea, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0453	How do we know? We go in and out of Samandag. We have entered from Hopa, from the port of Zelek, from the port of Yeniay, from the port of Sinop, from the city of Kefken, from the Terezgan, from the city of Pinada, from Gemlik, from the city of Gemlik, and from there you will know what we mean.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0793par0454	If you can talk, talk!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0455	Salih Cora, you went and got your answer to the Port of Trabzon Yeniay, we know that. I know that. They gave me a very good answer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, fishermen are crying blood, you know about the price of diesel, don't you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0793par0458	They told you, what are you doing here?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0794par0459	Dear Cora...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0460	Look, a fisherman sent it to us today, $4.5 lira diesel, and now it's $10.50 a gallon. There's a 56-cent raise tonight.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0793par0462	They chased you from there!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0794par0463	Guys, please...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0464	Look, the net here was 90 lira per kilo, it went up to $175.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0794par0465	Mr. Black Sea, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0466	The steel was $6 a kilo, now it's $21.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0795par0467	What are you doing here?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0468	You'll pay for this, the fishermen will pay for it. You didn't even give the fishermen a job description. With fishermen who don't know what they do for a living.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0795par0469	You're a Sinop Veki, what are you doing here?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0470	I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0796par0471	Mr. Cora tells me about the fishermen, why do you feel uncomfortable?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0472	A tanker diesel was $70,000, now $240,000. How's he gonna go fishing? You're going to eat fish, aren't you? Costs are up, no job descriptions, need a re-organisation of the SGK.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0797par0473	Why is he picking on me? What did I say? Why is the man on the stand picking on the sitter?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0474	Salih Cora, go back to the Port of Yeniay, they'll answer you again, they'll fire you again. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] You've grown boat sizes, he's trusted his government, he's a fisherman, but now he's halfway there; he's waiting, 40 percent of the contact's out. I want to thank our president here, our job in power is to establish the Ministry of Marinery and Fishing. (HPP) At our president's orders, we entered the 28 on the coast, one by one, sitting at a table, creating our report, not with the fishers' problems, but with their solution proposals, if you need it, we'll give it to you. If you want to protect the fishermen... I tell all the friends in the assembly: the fisherman's condition is very difficult; it's not a joke, it's at the fishing point, from Tekirdağ to Edirne, from Enez to Samandağ, from Çanakkale to everywhere... It's not just the fishermen, it's the manufacturers. The muğla MP was just talking, did he go to the manufacturers in Milas? There's a lot of manufacturers down here because they can't pay the electric bill. Friends, take care of the fishermen, let's start with the job description. They're part of a system built on bans and punishments, and it doesn't work. You've taken the fisherman to five factories. You've banned misina hunting, importing the network from outside, selling it, being found in a fisherman's shop, punishment, fisherman's, punishment machine. And the ports are second-guessing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0798par0480	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0481	We're also talking to the co-op presidents, the co-ops are on line.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0799par0482	What did they say to you in the cradle?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0790par0483	I'll tell you what he says when he gets out of here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've reduced the co-ops, you're selling the ports; fishermen's fishing shelters are about to change hands. Why, why are you doing this to a fisherman? We've spent years fishing, but recently -- a friend's advice -- this fisherman is angry with you, offended, uninterested, not interested, angry. If my friends here go one day, they'll know exactly what I mean to the ports. I salute all fishermen from here with respect.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit07spe0800par0488	I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0800par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the discussions of the 2020 Central Management Competitive Accounting Law Proposal. The commission is in place. MADDE 6- (1) It takes effect in the history of the Law publication. Mr. Bedri Yaşar, the Samsun MP who requested a statement on the 6th article on behalf of the Good Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0801par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The minimum wage was announced today at $4,250. We welcome it, and it already had a tax load of about 450 lira on it, and we have wished that this burden be removed from the employer before that. So we express our satisfaction that it should be removed, and so we welcome it. Of course, the power to buy money is also important. At the beginning of 2021, the minimum wage was $2.826, and today, at the end of 2021 years, you don't have to be a priest to say that we're going to the end of a year. Our Minister -- the fact that he's not here right now -- stated here that he had expressed numbers on the minimum wage from Germany, France, European countries, and tried to express that the minimum wage in Turkey was higher than they were. I wish he was here, but I guess our friends will tell us when he gets here. What percentage of all employees who work at a minimum wage in Germany? So today, a person who works for minimum wage in Germany has a chance to buy a car at least at the end of a year, to take a medium-scale vehicle off the ground. Is there any chance in Turkey that a man who works for minimum wage will take the wheels of the car away from him for a year? So, I don't want to do much of this job either, but when you look at it from the point of view of the money's ability to buy, we hope it holds the same values. In parallel with this, of course, there are employees. It's more of a private sector issue, as well as we have government officials, pensioners. It's coming in January, and if you can at least give them that raise, we'll be happy about it. But there's also the value of money as we go on, so today we're all watching horses at the track, and that's the value of the euro, that's the value of the gold, that's the value of the dollar, that's why we're on the scoreboard, trying to watch what's going on. It's like we're living in a country with dollars instead of dollars in currency, and we're tracking one-on-one scoreboards. We're following it naturally, why? Because today, a significant portion of the inputs are in dollars; we automatically monitor inputs on dollars, especially energy inputs. Today, even if the dollar is given $15.6, consider it a trade, it's especially priced for 17-18 liras in the commodity market today, my dear President. So the future sales have gone one way, it says that even though you want the deadline, the free market is 15.6, but the free market is based on 17/18, and if you accept this dry, I can make you a deadline. So while you're saying that you're going to support the production economy with your program, your program today supports total consumption. (PEOPLE Applause) It supports total consumption. So people are trying to buy everything they find today, so call it iron, call it concrete, call it concrete, call it wood, call it MDF, call it food industry, you can call it chemistry. Now, there's not a market in its own way, it's a high price not to sell it. So the balance in the market is so bad that I can't put it back if I sell it anyway. He says, "He's worried that he won't be able to replace it." So he automatically invented his own market, and in dollars, he represents numbers at a high price. Today, the commercial figures are unfortunately already being processed on the free market through the commodity 17-18. Of course, when you look at the general values today, the value of Turkish money is 8,74, when you look at the countries around us today. I'm not counting, so if we count backwards, we'll move more easily. So 50 cents is worth 106 cents today as a coin. So the mine value of 50 cents, I'm afraid it's worth 106 cents as a coin. We all have to protect the value of money, and there's no way to think beyond that. So, you've got to step into the market fast, whoever's doing this stockpile thing... you're in charge today. Especially in the domestic market, the numbers took its toll, cost its toll in every direction. Especially in the construction industry -- he's coming to you, and we've told him from time to time from this platform -- all 99 percent of competitors face bankruptcy today, unless you decide to make a price difference or a liquidation decision. Look, recent tenders -- as you say here -- final tenders: 50 percent each, 60 percent raise. So let it be, in the tenders, that you've prepared, that you've prepared, that you've always expressed the numbers -- you've always expressed the numbers here -- unfortunately, today, the tenders are being processed by 50 percent, 60 percent increase offers, and naturally the tenders are being canceled. Of course, in parallel, I would like to give some examples of Samsun. Samsun, today, in every sense of transportation -- land roads, railroads, airlines, by sea -- is a province that anyone can reach, but in general, even Samsun is going back, unfortunately. Okay, export numbers are over 1 billion this year, but today, the national income in Turkey averaged $8,598, unfortunately, is 5.880. So even a place like Samsun is about 31 percent below average national income. So, I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, Samsun could be a model province in this business. So the whole part of the world, in terms of industry, in terms of agriculture, in terms of production, in logistically everything, but if the national income per person falls in the same place as Samsun every passing year, then we can say, well, when you look at the general part of Turkey, it's like Turkey. For him, trust is the main thing about this matter. From time to time, we also express from this platform - words, actions, we assign trust in work, we are able to manage the country with stability. I mean, the market doesn't buy it. Here's what the Minister said in good faith, you'll sink as much as your fee, we'll employ a thousand people, we'll sink completely. You know, he talks about his enthusiasm for this mission, his tenacity, his determination, and the market becomes so fragile that even that's a negative effect. In such cases, it must be taken steps to reassure the market, to relax the market. We personally supported the announcement of minimum wage in that sense, but we still don't understand the reduction of interest by 100 points -- as a man from the business world. So, what happened today from 15 to 14? Today the dollar is up about 5% dry. So we're going to support the manufacturer with low interest. Now everyone knows that the increase in dollars and cents is 4 billion. We see that it has the opposite effect on him. What are you doing parallel to him? Who is receiving that debt with 14-15 ▪? These loans you brought down don't come out. So 65 per cent of the market today are consumer loans. Have you ever heard of 14 in consumer loans today? Or do you know a bank that lends from private banks by 14? You wouldn't know him. The government already owes them money, they give them money, they return it to the government at 22.7% interest. So if you really want to support the market, you need to support the manufacturer, the farmer, so you can solve it at the source. I think more important than that, you're going to fight now. You're saying, you're going to change the people in charge of certain institutions and organizations.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0802par0018	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0801par0019	I am, Mr. President. The president of the Central Bank, especially TÜİK at the beginning, does not stand in this country, I'm afraid. We're hoping that our Finance Minister will be long-term and at least have a chance to implement the measures he's taking. Now, you have a ball in the Central Bank, you have a rifle, but you don't have ammunition, so you don't have bullets to shoot, you've already finished $128 billion to interfere with the market. First, in order to create some accommodation, I advise you to fight for the future a little bit: at least don't make any statements for a month; I assure you, there will be serious drop-offs on the dollar line. I wish the budget of 2022 to be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0803par0023	Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Özyavuz has requested a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Self-Subject.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0804par0026	Before I begin with my remarks, I would like to offer my condolences and my condolences to the father of Mr. Sadir Durmaz, our vice president and his family. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Nationalist Action Party Group on Article 6 of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute our beloved Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly, watching us on their screens. Mr. President, I'd like to start talking about my town of Şanliurfa, the town of Turkmen, where a thousand years of brotherhood has been uninterrupted. The land of Enbias and the land of the saints is a city of belief and cultural tourism, one of the most important cities in the world and the Middle East, known as zero points in human history, home to various civilizations, different religions, different ethnic peoples who live in tolerance for centuries of Islamic history. I invite you to see the first university of the world, Gobeklitepe, Karahantepe, the first university of the world, the University of Harran, Balıkligöl, the Castle of Urbana, the Citadel of Customs, Hazreti Ayyup, the cave and healing water well, the Harran Gate, the historic Urban stone houses, the Haleplibahçe, the Hamimiye Square, the Akarbaşı and Bakirkers' Tsar, the historic Harran houses, the town of Shuayip, the city of Han el-Baur Kervana, the ancient city of Soğtar, the ancient city of Soğtar, and many other beautiful birds of the world, as well as well as well as well as much as much as much as much as much more beautiful and more beautiful in history. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our young men are our futures. We love our young people, we care about them. Turkish youth is intelligent, hardworking, insightful, with a conscience responsible for his state and nation. There's no way we can compromise youth, listen to them, leave them unattended in the complex conditions of life. As you know, we're growing rapidly in the area of Shanliurfa Industries. There is a need for man-made capacity to run the industry. Hence, the number of vocational education schools in Şanlıurfa will be increased and quality upgraded. In addition, vocational training centres that provide training based on traditional master apprentice relations should also be encouraged to increase numbers and qualities. Strong Şanlıurfa, strong Turkey, strong industry and strong economy should be given the importance of vocational education. After our young people graduate from vocational high schools, they must have jobs with employment institutions and industrial cooperation. Members of parliament, the world economy is on the verge of an unprecedented crisis due to the Covid-19 outbreak, and the process has had significant consequences for the agricultural sector as it has in every field. With recent developments, we see how important agriculture and animalism are to economies. In order for our country to be self-sufficient in food, we need to increase agricultural support and also encourage domestic agriculture. My constituency, Şanlıurfa, is an important part of our country's agriculture. I'm also a farmer who closely follows the expectations, goals, and problems of our farmers. Our farmers have many problems. The resolving of these problems will give our people in the region power to produce more and more production. So it must be ensured that the fuel, fertilizer, and support made should be increased. The state of the Republic of Turkey is able to meet those expectations. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are an integral part of the Republic of Turkey with a tremendous sense of belonging, regardless of our ethnic origins in the southeast. Whatever its ethnic origin, its name is Turkish nation. (Applause from MHP rows) The local people are proud of it. People in the region are very happy with the destruction of the PKK's terrorist organisation, the eradication of terrorism and successful operations. From this struggle, the evil centers of the region, which are uncomfortable with the peaceful and peaceful lives of the people of the region, and its collaborators outside, must now be cut off from the people of the region, pulling their hands off their collars like ticks. (Applause from MHP rows) The era of politics is over by our brothers and sisters living in the southeast. Everyone must know that for a thousand years we have defended these lands together, we have waved the flag together for a thousand years, we are sad together, we are happy together. We have joined hearts, consciences, hopes with brotherhood. We had the goals, the whims, the thrills, the flag. We didn't let a bunch of collaborators destroy our territory, and we're not going to. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] With the support of our nation, we will continue our journey as the Cumhur Alliance to further the region's historical, cultural, tourist and economic progress, that is what our nation expects. With the region cleared of terror, our people will continue to produce more, advance education and increase the level of prosperity. At the point where we are here today, the state of the Republic of Turkey and its great Turkish nation, the Cumhur Alliance, who live on the earth, every day on top of the roof of the roof of Turkey and look at Turkey and say, "Aha, they're coming." To whom are you leaving us and where are you going?" "I have knitted two booties, and I will give them to Turkish soldiers who came to my village first." "The young Pakistani boy who sold his coat to join our army (from the ranks of the Ahska bride (from the ranks of MHP and the AK PARTI) who lived up to the bones of exile and slaughter, will come one day by reaching out his finger to Israeli soldiers." Gazzeli, who cried, sold bracelets on his arm, and sent money to our country by Afghan sisters, Baykal, Caspian, Khazzar, Tuna, Fıratin, Nil, Ötukine, Aras River, Ağeş, Mt., Turkmen, Tiyanşan, Sehend.in, Heyder Baba, Elbrun, and Ercies. Therefore, the Republic of Turkey should seek no other option but to be strong for the Islamic world and for the world's oppressed. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener Bey put it, we're going to be flags, we're going to be banners, we're going to be homelands, we're not going to fall, we're not going to bring Turkey down. We're gonna be one, we're gonna be brothers, we're gonna be a big family. With the heroic stance of the Turkish nation, we will disappoint those who have the hope of desiccating their separate grass and dividing it. (MHP and AK PARTY) We'll be humble, moral, virtuous, uncompromising, manly. With a heart crossed, we will defend and preserve Turkey to the end. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2022 to be good for our country and our nation, and I salute the High Council and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0805par0037	İstanbul MP Dilşat Canbaz Kaya has requested a statement on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0806par0040	Mr. President, our esteemed members, our dear people who have been following us, have shown themselves again during the male state budget talks. As women, we have expressed women's demands. In the General Assembly, as in all places, the government created this budget by ignoring women's demands, women's demands, their rhetoric. This shows us once again that the problem is the system, that it's in the system. We see that multidimensional male government violence expands to an extent that leaves no room for women to live. The budget, which is the product of the male mind, does not contain any concrete arrangement for the woman. We've insisted on the social-sex-sensitive budget. Women's demands are a budget in which women's labor will be visible, women's employment will increase, women's poverty will end. During the budget, women's organisations should be included in NGOs. We said, "Let the resources be used to end violence, let the tax system be made sensitive to the gender." We said, "Let the women create sufficient funds for the prisoners, let a special budget for the education of the girls be set aside." So, what did they do? What did the ministers say, let's see what's in this budget for the woman. If you call it the Ministry of Agriculture, there's not a single line on female farmers, women's farm workers, the Department of Justice is the constant custodian of male state violence, murderers are being cleared, self-defense women are being punished. We're looking at the Ministry of Family and Social Services, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, there's nothing about a working woman; women's labor is invisible; working women are nose-to-face with poverty, house workers women, house-to-house women are not guaranteed, and in the hours we come in today, there is no guarantee, and the AKP Group gives us the good news of the minimum wage. Yeah, that's good news, that's good news, that's good news. Let's all see it together. The minimum wage has been set, $4,250, and the price is already melting. Tax exemption from minimum wage was made in favor of the bosses, and our people should never believe those who sell the price of poverty as a big raise. Because we know all about the minimum wage, whose profits, whose benefits. So the interests of the capital are preferred over the life of the worker, not by workers struggling with hunger, poverty, but by bosses who say, "I can't pay for this in order not to compromise the luxury of life." The Ministry of Commerce is far from the approach that protects the female entrepreneur. The Ministry of Youth... they're providing shelter by detaining the unsustainable young people. Police attacked students in Ankara who wanted to organise a forum on the economic crisis, 30 students were taken into custody in reverse handcuffs. The situation is so dire that they're even afraid to talk about poverty. The criminal ministry is busy arresting, torturing, losing, threatening women who are struggling. Women who fight for their rights and lives receive their share of male-state violence in the worst possible way. In many counties, women are cut off by the police, threatened by going to their workplaces, but we women's anger grows day by day as men's violence grows day by day. We are angry because despite all of Garibe Gezer's applications, no demands were accepted, and the Garibe continued to be held in a solitary cell without law. On May 24th, he was tortured and treated badly by male and female guards and faced sexual assault that day. Garibe shared it with the public, again, again, insisting that he did not want to remain in a solitary cell, petitions were submitted, and the petitions were not filed. So, Garibe Gezer was massacred by the violence of the state. Not enough, they couldn't stand our funeral, they're afraid of our death. Take your funeral, go. We have carved your words, your screams into our ears, our brains. We women are angry. We are angry with those who keep sick women in prison, especially Aysel Tuğluk. We're angry that revolutionary lawyers are being tried to get back at the workers, the oppressed, and their lawyers. We are angry for the lawyers of CHD, for the women of the prisoners who were tortured and naked in prison; for all the women who were slain by the violence of men. Gulistan Doku, we're angry at the lost women. This will increase the struggle of women with our anger, and we women will be responsible for all the women killed by Garibe Gezer, Deniz Poyraz, and the violence of men. Members of the General Assembly, we say that every year from this bench the budgets of power do not meet the basic needs, expectations, and demands of the public. Again, we say that these budgets, which are created every year, are based on a measure of the concerns of the bosses. This has been confirmed many times by real life. Power and accomplices have created hell for our country's workers. The streets are ringing with the cries of the people who cry, "We can't pass." Workers, workers are constantly faced with the pressure and rights extortion of the bosses. The villagers are selling their livestock, their fields, captured by banks, left with debts. Plantable farmland is either barren or cementing. Young people are looking for ways to leave their country at the first opportunity, with economic and security concerns. Women are subjected to the violence of more men and the government that protects them every day. Power and accomplices constantly deepen national and religious inequality. Almost everyone who claims to be Kurd in the street is accused of terrorism by the power. All the search for rights of workers, workers, peasants, women, young people is being targeted by power and the press. Justice, equality and freedom are rising from the streets and squares against all lies, pressure and threats against the public, the AKP and the MHP government, which have taken over all of the state's organs. The student youth's struggle for academic autonomy does not bow to the lies and pressures of power. Women stand fearlessly in the face of armored vehicles and chemical gases. The workers shout their voices louder and bolder in the factories, in the production fields. Public workers continue their search for rights in the squares. So, right here, the AKP's government is fully aware of what they're up against; they see the noise, the screams rising from the street as much as we do; they feel the rage in the street, so they're restless and they're losing sleep; again, so they're so vicious and aggressive, that's why they're so angry. They're so angry with women, workers, students, Kurds, because no matter what they do, they don't lower the voice of the workers, the oppressed. Precious workers watching us at the beginning of their screens, the world and humanity, who are part of it, are driven to great disaster at full speed. Capitalist greed for profit, imperial war and exploitation brought order to the bottom of the cliff. It is said by scientists that our world has only a few degrees to live. Many species of plants and animals are on the verge of extinction. All this inequality and natural destruction caused by capitalism has made more than 1 percent of the world a refugee. The gap between the rich and the poor deepens day by day. The richest percentage of the world has 40 per cent of the total income, while in Turkey, the rich 10 per cent have lost 55 per cent of the income. Dear people, I want to address you because this budget is not your budget. I'd like to address you, condemned to the bread lines, asked for bagels and tea, forced to go to work in the dark in the morning by packed buses, questioning the phones in his pocket, being condemned to poverty: mankind has no time left. You have the power to change this order. If you're organized, you don't give a damn about any exploiters, and you can tell this Talan to stop. I'm saying, let's build together the struggle of revolutionary, democrats, socialists, patriots, laborers, ecologists, a fair, equal and free future based on ecology -- classless, war-free, exploiting, salvation, the struggle for socialism -- and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0807par0050	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Osmaniye MP Baha is famous. Here you go, Mr. Celebrity.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0808par0053	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Republican People's Party on Article 6 of the 2020 Central Management Final Account Law Proposal, and I salute you all, your grand delegation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to start by saying that the budget that we're talking about today has arrived here in a text and has been presented by the appointed, not by the chosen. The budget law is a law that illustrates the detailed estimates of state spending and revenues for the future, allowing both expenses and revenues to be collected. In other words, the budget is a mandate from the Parliament, representing national sovereignty, for public resources to be collected and expenditures to be made. In this context, it is also a contract on the use of resources between society and political power. But today, we're discussing the budget of 2022 in a parliament that's been stripped of its power to budget, although I don't know how right it would be to argue about it. The authority to budget democratic parliamentary regimes -- to determine state revenues and costs -- belongs to parliaments. Today, the right of the nations to determine the tax they will receive and pay in the end of long struggles is violated here. Today, the budget we're meeting here gives the community neither confidence nor hope. (HPP) Many problems with society have not been included, poverty is at the very beginning of problems. Is there a cure for poverty in this budget? There isn't. Is there a way to improve revenue distribution in this budget? There isn't. Is there a cure for unemployment, inflation? There isn't. (Applause from CHP rows) There is no study in this budget to resolve the problems of our citizens, there is no solution to the problems of the EYT people, there are 3600 additional indicators. The increase in foreign currency rates because of the wrong economic policies imposed by the government, we do not have a farmer who is doomed to perish due to a massive increase in prices in fertilizer, diesel, medicine, electricity, seeds, and bait, which are the basis of our farmers in plant production. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In this budget, I don't have farmers who can't get the necessary support, who've been followed by execution, who produce the symbol of our peanuts. There are no teachers in this budget who can't be appointed, there are no non-assigned medics, there is no industry and there is no support for SMEs, there is no youth, there is no children, there is no women. (CHP) There is no hope or trust for our industrialists in this budget. There is no support for industry and entrepreneurs to create an environment that will allow them to invest, create jobs, give science, technology priority to R&D and innovation. Dear lawmakers, the current government no longer reassures the local or foreign investor. Investors have put their investments on hold, industries, businesses have been worried about saving the day. Companies are struggling not to go bankrupt. My fellow lawmakers, as it turns out, there is no hope for the future and no happiness promised to our citizens. In this budget, there are state-of-the-art private-employment projects that work well in dollars. In this budget, this project is funded by its contractors and its supporters. This budget has a waste, adornment, a kingdom, and support for advocacy contractors. Despite what the current government has said today, there is no crisis. There is a heavy economic crisis in our country, as everyone sees and knows. The increase in exchange cannot be stopped, and a dollar is 15 liras again, just as it appeared in the newspaper headline of August 10, 1970, fifty years ago. You've taken the country back 50 years with the wrong policy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's winter. In this winter, power has yet to suggest how our citizens will warm up. Natural gas, electricity, wood and coal prices set a record. Recently, the public has announced that the TRT share and energy fund have been removed from electricity bills. However, these bills will not ensure the expected decline, and will not meet the basic need for warming and enlightenment of a small-income citizen. If the citizen's financial burden is wanted to be reduced immediately, a black winter fund must be established, a discount in VAT, a VAT and VAT must be removed in the natural gas and kitchen tube; in favour of low-income incomes, a gradual electricity tariff must be made. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As we said before, we appreciate any work done, even if we say so, and we support any offer in favor of our citizens and our country. We say yes to all that is good for the nation, but since there is nothing in this budget for the benefit of the nation, we say no. Turkey does not deserve to be ruled like this. In the first election, our power will cover the entire population; we will do the budget to solve the problems, together with our people, as the National Alliance. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD Party rows]] Don't worry, it's on its way; it's on its way. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0809par0070	Mr. Fehmi Cubic is the member of the Bolu MP who requested a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Cube.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0810par0073	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the Central Management Act of 2020. On this occasion, I salute your delegation and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, we have worked day and night to increase the welfare of our nation in twenty years, to make a powerful actor in our country and in the world, and we have raised our economy four times as much, praise be to God. We have kept the national will, the trust of our nation, not our lives, not ours, not ours, not ours, not ours, not ours, to our death, to our death, and we continue to walk with the same determination and determination, I hope. Of course, it's hard to make a budget, to protect our nation's lawfulness, to fight, not to cause it, to rule because it's hard to live in this land, and not every father can afford it. We're going through what happened a hundred years ago. The world is abundant, not fertile, of course, there is a global crisis; there are epidemics, migrations, wars, and raw matter crises. However, one of the two countries that grew up with China in the pandemide is one of the two countries that set records in exports, runs the factories at full capacity, builds the world's factories, bridges, tunnels, plants; builds drones, SIHAs, sells and sells their own cars; there is a powerful Turkey now that can create games, disrupt global games, create games, Alhamdulillah. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There are other things in this country. We have people who believe that our only problem is the increase of interest, the advocate, the happy with interest and courtship operations. And who will win for those who defend this thesis? Small tradesmen, workers, farmers, pensioners and disadvantaged groups, or money barons and interest lobby? We know they're going to push, we're going to have trouble for a while, but with an economic model based on production, maybe this land will be a Turkey that has overcome the problem of the last hundred and fifty years and has won an economic struggle and has strengthened global acting in its region and in the world for the next century. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, we are also aware that those who call for early elections are trying to break the spirit of our sovereign state, starting from the blue country, from Karabağ to Libya, to our thesis in the Aegean, from blocking the terror state they're trying to build in Syria to the globalists. Again, if those of this country who gave travel gas over the dollar had genuine precepts for this country, shouldn't they have held a round of applause for $8 billion from the world-old Suez Canal, which earned $1.5 billion from the Panama Canal? Or would they ignore the $22,400,000 that came to the Treasury from Istanbul Airport last year with our investment costs of 10m euros? Or wouldn't they be proud of the bridges, the vehicles passing through, the people coming to our government with the ability to keep a dime from our government? Dear lawmakers, when you think of the partners who are too afraid to be compared to each other, when you say human rights and justice in this country, where there are about half a million people who have died next to you, about 10 million people who have migrated, collapsed on our borders and on our country, when we have martyrs and martyrs who have drunk the testimony, do you think of human rights and justice? We call it mercy and mercy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we are also aware of centuries of games and dish holders. All the rivals, local, nationals, who want to destroy the crowd and their alliance, bend to the wind, shape according to the wind, without principle, know that the partnerships of this black propaganda will never change your fate, and our nation will note it down, even if it wins a game of deception. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Because our nation is victorious, and I hope it will always be victorious yesterday and today. Dear lawmakers, Ideologies are maps of the political world, but they need compasses. His compass, consciousness, history consciousness, nationality consciousness, personality consciousness. He says Cemil Meric. If they were conscious, they wouldn't do it. There are so many things we can say in this country. May my Lord not make anyone aware, nor let his compass deceive him.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0811par0084	You have a lack of human consciousness and a lack of democracy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0810par0085	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're on our way to the end of the budget. While I greet the grandchildren of our great civilization with this feeling that our budget brings good things, let's make this a good word, as in every budget. Harman said, "Woe, alas, the wind is coming. Let there be wheat, let there be straw, garbage, dust, dust, dust, and we will see how much we are."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0812par0088	Mr. President, I'd like to apologize... The system probably doesn't get it after a certain number of applications, so we can't demand it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0813par0089	No, no.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0812par0090	I have a request, and I haven't tried it in a few years, Mr. President. I mean, you warned me, so ask me to give it to you, but...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0813par0091	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0814par0092	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0815par0093	He's gonna ask you if you want to talk? I mean, he's talking at night.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0813par0095	Mr. Free...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0816par0096	I have a request, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0813par0097	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0816par0098	Mr. President, the speaker has just made a lot of criticism in his speech. Of course, we, as critics, are open to criticism, but those who call an early election aim to weaken our entire state. The state is something else, the government is something else; the state is something else, the party is something else. If you're a bad government manager or you've eliminated the state distinction with the party, you've evolved to a party state or state party, that's if everyone in Turkey has a problem against both the economy and human rights and all the universal gains, then if there's a solution here in the chest...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0813par0100	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0816par0101	...the early elections against the challenge of a poll show that our government is helpless. Their defences produce nothing but an open discussion of their own legitimacy. Such that the early election, the election, or the day of the election, may immediately take back the authority that gives you the authority to vote, which may also change you, if the government did not replace the three parties of that day by the state, just as you did when you received the vote. Otherwise, you'll be opening the door to criticism that you see as the most ancient criticism of democracy as a tool, not a purpose. And I offer this to the grace of the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0813par0104	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it's about that early election call, and when you say that it's a violation of rights, it only comes to Demirtaş and Kavala. For one thing, as HDP, I would say that every right violation in Turkey, every torture, every lawlessness...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0818par0107	Why don't you come to the mothers of Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0108	I don't know why you object to that, but...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0819par0109	Go ahead, Mr. Beştaş, talk to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0110	I'll listen to you. We defend the right of the tree and the right of the bug. Listen a little, maybe you'll learn the law or learn the rights.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0819par0112	Mr. Beştaş, address the General Assembly, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0820par0113	Block it, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0114	Mr. President, really, at this time of night, that's enough! We're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0819par0115	Mr. Beştaş, let's not discuss the forms of bullying. You address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0116	Yeah, no. We're waiting like you at this time of night, and we're waiting because of you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0821par0117	Mr. Beştaş, please state your meaning.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0819par0118	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0119	Mr. President, let Demirtaş trouble them in this country as much as they want...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0819par0121	Let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0122	Even though you've done all the injustices, all the illegalities, the whole world is talking about how the AKP's government has taken Demirtaş hostage. He talks about how a presidential candidate, along with a party leader's party, holds millions of people's representation hostage. And you shall not cause the people to forget it, neither shall you cause the world to forget it, neither shall you make Kavalah to forget it; they have become a symbol. Not only in Turkey; from Latin America to Scandinavia, from Europe to Africa, everyone knows your cruelty, your cruelty.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0822par0123	Come to Mama Diyarbakir!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0817par0124	And these people, Demirtaş, Kavala, and Kavala, will fight against the thousands of people you have unjustly kept in prison. You've been in bed for three months, and you've still been talking about it for five years, and those people have been held hostage for nearly six years.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0823par0125	Yes, thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Mr. Ünal, please...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0824par0127	There's no room for traitors!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0825par0128	You're the traitor!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0826par0129	You're the traitor!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0825par0130	You're the traitor to this country!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0826par0131	You're the traitor, you! You're the traitor! Don't be a bastard!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0827par0132	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0828par0133	Just a moment, Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0829par0134	You're the one who's being a traitor!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0830par0135	You're the traitor, don't talk! You're the traitor! You're the traitor! Take that back! Take that back! Take that back! Don't be rude, take that back! Don't be rude, don't talk!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0831par0136	Watch your language!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0830par0138	Come here! Come here, come here, come here!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0832par0139	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0831par0140	Watch your language!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0832par0141	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0831par0142	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, please...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0833par0143	Come here, come here, come here!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0832par0144	Congressmans, please take your seat! Take your seats, please!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0833par0145	Don't be rude, know your place!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0834par0146	Guys, take your seats! Take your positions!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0835par0147	Where are you going? Where are you going?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0833par0148	You should know your place!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0836par0149	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0833par0150	You're the dirty one and you're the traitor, okay?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0837par0151	Who are you calling a traitor?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0833par0152	Behave yourself! Behave yourself! Level up!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0838par0153	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0839par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0838par0155	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Master, if you'd like to take your place...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0839par0157	Everyone, please take your seats. Mr. Yasar, friends, take a seat.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0840par0159	Don't come here! Don't come over here! Don't come here! Don't come!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0841par0160	Congressmans, if you would please take your seat, I have promised the Deputy Director of the Group. I'd like to invite all lawmakers to their seats, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0842par0162	Guys, take your seats.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0841par0163	Come in, come in. Please, take your seats.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0843par0165	Don't advertise over us; go over your ads, through others!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0844par0166	Don't shout, don't shout!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0845par0167	You're the bastard!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0846par0168	Let's sit down, members of lawmakers. I promised Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0845par0169	Who says "Lan!"?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0846par0170	Mr. Chepni, please...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0847par0171	Mr. President, that's where the curse is, the curse!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0848par0172	No one here is the master of anyone, and we are no one's slaves!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0846par0173	Please, take your seats.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0849par0174	Disrespectful, disrespectful! You're disrespectful!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0850par0175	I'm returning all the insults!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0851par0176	Don't act like a mountain; act like a councilman!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0852par0177	Everyone, take your seats, please. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0179	Mr. President, democracies are long-lasting regimes. The Turkish National Assembly has spent ten days working hard to raise the nation's budget, and of course all political parties will express their opinion on this bench; they will express their political opinions, their criticism. We are here to insult the Deputy Speaker of Parliament... which we have repeatedly asked you not to deal with the Civil Code, not to engage with the individual, not to use the pure language, as well as to avoid statements such as the unsubstantiated, not to deal with the personality of those who are not found here using names.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0852par0181	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0182	But in the end, we're here, despite all the insults and criticism and the efforts of all our lawmakers and lawmakers, who are working hard to raise this nation's budget, we're doing a process here, and it's happening right in front of our nation. It must not be forgotten that there is a large quiet majority following us, inviting us to reason, to reason, and there is a great silent majority in this parliament that does not like fighting, noise, ugly words, representing the vast majority of our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0852par0185	Complete, please, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0186	How can we say we have a democratic personality if we can't tolerate even a little criticism from a hack here?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0854par0187	You've been bullying him for five years!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0855par0188	You'll respect Demirtaş first.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0189	Because democracy is a regime of long - suffering, and a democratic personality requires endurance.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0854par0190	That's not all! That's not it anymore!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0191	Now, I don't want to be a tease, but I'd also like to express...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0856par0192	Please don't.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0193	The state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law and will not take anyone hostage.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0857par0195	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0858par0196	Which law? Which law, your law?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0197	And Turkey's fight against terrorism is not a war...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0859par0198	You've persecuted the man for five years, you've persecuted him for five years!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0858par0199	You mean enemy law.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0200	...to use the right to fight terror in its own constitution as a means of being a state of law.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0860par0201	What law are you talking about, Mayor, what law?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0853par0202	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0861par0204	Well, thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Vocabulary demands have been met on behalf of the groups. The first word on behalf of individuals belongs to Mr. Ahmet Zenbilci, the Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Zenbilci.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0862par0214	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at this hour of the night, I salute you with love. We need love, love, the beginning of everything, the cure, the language of love, the most beautiful language on all languages. Dear Group, we agree with what my Vice President stands for. Let's approach with love. It's obvious that if we all look at it from our own savings, we'll find it guilty. I think we all need a common language and a common denominator, which is the great state of Anatolia, the Republic of Turkey and its founders. That's how I want to present it. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, today I wish that our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our esteemed Minister of Labor, and the long work of his fellow associates, the minimum salary announced would be a blessing to all of our employees. With the global epidemic, we've been going through an extraordinary period for the past two years. It's obvious that the healthy crisis has brought destruction to social life, as well as the macro balances. So, in this system, where we are seriously affected and we live in supply demand imbalances, especially the price of energy, oil and fuel. Increased commodity prices, rising food and food products due to droughts, and disintegration of supply chains are among them. However, as our President has stated, we are trying to deal with the rising prices of energy and oil with all of our employees, especially our government, and it is clear that there is a struggle against increasing inflation. So, I would like to say that we are aware of the price increases that have been growing in our country and in the world over the past few months, and the price increases that have been caused by the pandemic effect, the fluctuations in foreign currency and the pricing of supply chains, and of course we know that our people have been crushed under it, and as the AK PARTI power, God willing, this is the power to overcome it. I want to make it clear that for the past 19 years, there has been an AK PARTY in Anatolia that has been in power by taking the votes and support of all people. It's unfair and unjust to call the President a didictator, because using such a language with a democratic system to be elected President is a language that is not in the language of love. You love it, you don't like it, you don't like it, you can do your criticism on your own scale; but a president who came with the power of this nation; of course, this nation has been burdened with the love of this nation, judged by the love of this nation... for 19 years this nation has been in power again, and I want to express that, by the same love, by the same love of this nation, by the same love of this nation, by the love of this nation, by the love of this nation, by the love of this nation, this nation, this nation, this nation, this nation, this nation, this nation, this nation, is the suffering, this nation, this nation, this nation, will rule again, and I have no doubt, by the permission of God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, there's something very critical about interest. Of course, interest is clearly a mindset that exploits labor by an idea that makes the rich richer, the poor poor poor poorer. Hopefully, the main goal of these interest reductions is to give the employee more support, to create more jobs, to make our lives more powerful about exports and employment; for that, we support this interest work. As interest falls, jobs will increase, production will increase, exports will increase, as our exports increase, this country will continue to prosper, economic peace and economic gain. I appreciate and respect the positive criticism done by our friends in the opposition, but I say, here we say that we will continue to serve this nation with love, as long as our Lord gives us life, by knowing the realities of the world and our geography, by building projects, by planning and investments, by serving this nation where our country deserves to be.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0863par0225	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0862par0226	Let them deal with false perception management or their own dreams. The AK PARTY staff say, "Don't stop, keep going." I salute you all. I wish you the best of our budget, I congratulate everyone who's worked on our budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0863par0228	On behalf of the individuals, the final statement is from İstanbul MP İştin Nuhoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0864par0231	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a vow against the 6th Amendment, and I offer my regards. And since this stuff is relevant, I'm going to do a general evaluation. In his speech, the Vice President's office addressed the labor of both our workers, our employers, our farmers, our tech entrepreneurs, our engineers, young, old, retired, and every part of the community. This expression remains in the air, not in the form of self-preservation, but incompatible with the facts. In addition, the expression "resisting on the fight against inflation" includes the expression "resisting with determination." What kind of perception operation is this? These expressions mean that those who are unaware of the street, market, market, and kitchen make fun of people. If that's how they're determined to fight inflation, then woe to these people. If they're not intentional, they're incompetent, incompetent, and they're probably five or six paychecks. You have to be among them to see what's going on in society. Society is about to unravel, families are shaking. Everyone's moody and unhappy and desperate. Poverty and despair upset people. Is there peace in the homes of your mother who can't boil her pot, your embarrassed father who can't give his children tuition, young people who can't look forward with hope? Precious MPs, according to a postal distributor in Istanbul, divorce notifications from family courts during the 1st time of the most recent distribution of documents are carried out in the second place, and traffic tickets in the third place. We've studied the situation in our two major provinces, and we've seen similar results: execution in the first place, divorce in the second place, notices in the third place, traffic tickets in the third row. I address the ruling lawmakers: Before you address the President and the ministers with thanks and compliments, enter among the people, see the real situation, and tell them what you have seen. If you can't do that, at least shut up. We're also fighting for economic salvation." he says. I'd like to ask: who do you fight the war of salvation against? If you oppose those who have brought this country into this state, then your job is easy. Think about it, people. Get rid of it. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, in the budget of the one-year framework of the Turkish economy, of course, I look at how much our nation's expectations have been met. So I looked at the pens on investments. When the Vice President's speech presented, he said, "We care about investments in the budget of 2022." I called to see where there was an investment, but it was a waste of time. I couldn't find any other investments in ongoing public-private co-operation projects, other than those that have been assigned to subcontractors. The interest and guarantee payments show no money left for investments. The ruling MPs, unfortunately, can't stand criticism at all; I'd like to remind them that if you don't see the real situation of the Turkish people today, of course you won't admit that you have a problem, and if there's no problem, there's no solution. In essence, those who set up their understanding of government to avoid accountability do not want people to ask for accountability or tolerate criticism. You should actually be thanking all the lawmakers here who speak against and criticize. On the contrary, you're accusing us of opposing investments; no, we're against investments, we're against Ranta; we're against stealing, we're against stealing, we're against chasing. You're angry, but don't be angry. In society, unfortunately, it is believed that the state has been robbed and its supporters have been enriched; if you do not believe, go to coffeehouses, to the streets, to the people, and you will see this.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0865par0239	We've been in the field for 19 years, 19 years.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0866par0240	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0864par0241	Dear MPs, we repeat from this bench at every opportunity: Turkey is a great country, it has no problems that cannot be solved, as long as we give the job to its people, and we work with the dutiful, talented, honest staff. So we can solve all our country's problems, solve everyone's expectations. What we need to do is be sincere, transparent, and get rid of personal interests and work only for the future of the Turkish nation. In the first election, I express my faith that the power will change, that the state of the Republic of Turkey will return to its founding values, that the improved, reinforced parliamentary system will prevail, and that our nation of 2022 will bring peace to the Turkish world and humanity.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0866par0244	I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Subsequent 6 has been accepted. MADDE 7- (1) The President governs these laws. On behalf of the 7th article, Mr. Aylin, the Isparta MP, will speak bravely on behalf of the PTA Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0250	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, esteemed MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'm going to make one of the final speeches of the budget talks. We're actually doing the budget so that our people can live a happy, peaceful, healthy life, and that's actually why the republic was built, in fact, for the good of our nation. As the great Ataturk republic was forming, the goal was to continue the development of the Republic of Turkey in peace, and whatever there is in civilized countries should come to our people who live on this land; children should read, people should have jobs, and people should be happy. How far back have you been from where you've been and from where you've been today? That's what we've been telling you since day one. I don't know how much of this is understood, but some of the problems that have been going on forever, it doesn't matter whether it's from inside or outside, and we've been able to get stronger and come to these days. It's a huge success, we owe it to democracy. That's something to remember, I think that's the most important thing. Who will run democracy? Democracy must run, it will run in public. And it's the word of Demirel. It's the right of people and communities to live as well as the strength of struggle. Turkey was one of the world's most important economies, with its entrepreneurs all over the world, and its products everywhere, and its institutions and its legal state. It's about the climate of trust, which is possible with a functioning democracy, and domestic peace is very important at this point. Peace, peace and security are possible with the rule of law. I've made a presentation all the way up here, holding our heads up, so we need to be able to respond. Can you say everything's fine, dear friends? You've been clapping your hands since day one. Look, there are two important things in the administration, and these are brothers and sisters, always brothers and sisters, no matter what form of government. Now, I'm going to tell you a story: Mad Petro visits Paris and hugs the statue of Cardinal Rishliyo, saying: "If you were alive, I would split Russia in half and give you half so that you can tell us how to handle the other half." So it's hard to manage, dear friends. Come, let us accomplish this challenge, and let us change our constitution; and let us reassemble the system from top to bottom. In order to get straight, we have to switch to the parliamentary system; let's go back to the parliamentary system. It doesn't help anyone to be stubborn, we all see what happens. And you see, our democracy is in the hospital today with its non-run institutions and, unfortunately, the highest non-functioning institution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And you have to get better, but you have to start with health. I'm going to give you a little bit of my presentation of what's left of the Ministry of Health budget. Now, our health workers who are struggling in the heart of the pandemic, their problem is that they should be in charge of everything. Life hasn't become normal for them, they're still in tiny masks, they're stuck in those clothes, they're working for us. I mean, it's like they're forgotten, and I want to get your attention. And his first ER, Turkey, is today, the low rate of inoculation. Look, Omicron surrounds the entire world, and the 5th wave is at our door, so I'd like to draw the attention of your high-committee that this is very, very important. And research says that BioNTech protects 35 percent against Omicron, and with the third dose of reminder, it only reaches 75 percent. Sinovac's activity is already scarce, and now we know. In my last speech, Mr. Secretary, I told you when the world was here, the world is making its third dose of BioNTech, not to wait six months. I thank him in front of you, they have explained our voice as of yesterday, and I find it very positive and correct.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0868par0256	Yeah, they did it on your recommendation!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0257	Now, but we're still 17 percent inoculation, and that's not really the right number, because that includes the Sinovacs in 17 percent. We need to increase the rate of 2 doses of BioNtech rapidly, dear friends, this should be our first emergency for Turkey, for tomorrow. Recently, daily inoculation has dropped to 50,000, and I'm very sorry to inform you that Germany, England, is still at a million a day, so I have to tell you this so you can see the scissors in between. We've got 30 million people who haven't had two doses of vaccine. We don't know how many people, how many doses of BioNTech, how long has it been, we need to know how many of these things, so that we can convince people to be vaccinated, to be convinced, to be worried.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0868par0258	The second dose is 65 million.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0259	Now, countries limit immunizations, you can't limit inoculation in this economy, it's obvious now, but we need to increase measures. Are we going to speed up the immunization, what measures, how to compress them, how to ask for vaccin cards, etcetera? I'm warning the government, and I'm bringing it to your attention.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0868par0260	Ms. Aylin, you got the numbers wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0261	I think you should shut up and listen to me, because you don't know, so you might as well find out. Now, Omicron, dear friends who are going to shoot us very badly, I warn the government and present it to your high council.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0868par0262	As a biochemist, you're right, you're saying good things.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0263	Now, one more warning: your government has not been particularly good to our health workers in time, additional payments were a joke, you didn't just leave with a dry clap, some of you have accused the pandemic of being the source of the pandemic, civil society organizations have been threatened to shut down, 524 health workers have been martyrs of duty -- but Covid has not been considered a professional disease and has been asked to commit illness. The people are tired of being humiliated, the people are tired of your ties, the people want to get out on the street, and they're getting violent in health. So there's no mechanism to deter things from happening, and there's thirty-six hours in two days, most of our healthcare workers are still unassigned in 39 majors, and that's how much we employ the missing health workers, which is a separate handicap. And first you announced 40,000 appointments. We heard later that 10,000 of them were regular workers, three days ago we learned that the appointments had been held by March 2022, they had been waiting for 2021, they had to be appointed as soon as possible. The method? For example, with the money paid to city hospitals this year, you could get 250,000 health workers on a salary of 7,000 lira a month, and our health army would increase by 25 percent. Can you imagine what a tremendous figure it is, but it needs a vision. Now, why should health workers work in a job that is violent and difficult and underpaid, and why, even if you think about it, is why they're running, and they're running, and that's why Turkey is facing a very deep public health issue. And there's a shortage of doctors, so heed our warning. Look, everything we've said here, you'll soon experience a shortage of doctors. And, doctor, we're under the OECD countries of the number of nurses, and we're the last. Our trained health workers are fleeing abroad, preferring language courses rather than preparing for TUS. 8,000 physicians have resigned in the last 18 months, dear friends, take this seriously. And while that's the case, I'd like to talk to you about the school score on the TUS exam, which you declared to be the Müjde. You put dynamite, dynamite, you miss more paramedics because it was the only test that was already equal. And if you interfere with that, so that they can be equal to those who have graduated from schools with high scores, then... don't infect inadequacy, and keep your health in good health, because the human health you hold in your hands is your life and the lives of your loved ones, and the lives of this nation. And why should those who receive 4,000 euros abroad stop here when they receive 400 euros in Turkey? Now, you've put in a fee of hypocrisy, we'll organize the wages. You said, you've cut out the spinning capital and tried to put it in the other pocket, which, of course, didn't eat, people. So we said, "Would you do that to 1.5 million health workers? Would that be discrimination?" Now, you will come with an arrangement. Oh, don't cut it out of health, don't cut it out of the paramedics, do it for the entire 1.5 million, do it right. Don't take it out of your pocket just because it's called money or something like that and put it in the other pocket. The paramedics can't afford it. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] And you promised the nurses 3,600 additional indicators, not too much. Remember one more thing: don't forget the TSK medical staff, and don't forget them. And we're going to have to increase the staff budget, we're going to do it, and we're going to have to make the appointments, the salaries, the labor, that's what we're going to do. And look, the problem is in the system. How much work is a lot of money... this performance system needs to be removed, and we're going to remove it because it's a system that affects the duration of the examination, all of this, and it's not ethical. A physical in five minutes, dear friends?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0869par0268	Have you ever examined him? Have you ever examined a patient?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0269	He has to fit it in five minutes, so the patient, unresolved, hospital is traveling around the hospital, and the public is losing the system because each one is being billed to the public, so we're going to remove this system. And another, the negligence of the first digit. Our family physicians are heavily burdened by limited personnel and equipment during the pandemic period. We need to take that burden off their backs, to relax their working conditions, and hopefully we'll do that. (Applause from party lines) And they were forced to work as a business firm in the building, in the apartments, and we're going to fix that because the secret of high medicine is to correct the first step. And our dating system is in trouble. For weeks, months, people can't make appointments, they can't operate. We need to fix all of this, because the shipping system's blocked, and hopefully we'll open it. And there's a shortage of specialist doctors in the counties. If you're going to revolutionize health, that's what you're going to do, dear friends. You can't sell it like that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0870par0273	The revolution was made, it was made. There was a revolution with the family doctor, a revolution in health.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0274	And the width of the hospital corridor is of course important, let our patients find a wide corridor, but if you can't get the patient to the hospital, what if the hospital has five stars? So you have to fix all this. There are problems in our medical equipment sector, they're very impressed by the lot-related increase, the surgical material, the medication, and when local medical equipment manufacturers can't afford it from the government.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0870par0277	There will be a revolution. It says, "It's a revolution."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0871par0278	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0279	Last year, pharmaceutical companies owed $2.3 billion, making it one third of the budget, what happened to that money? We don't know that, but there are serious problems in our pharmacies, we know that. And finally, it's not RD and local sector-focused; it's what increases debt the most. We need to invest the system in RD, and we need to make permanent investments, hopefully, and we'll do that. Because it's a public health crisis that you're putting Turkey into, and we're gonna get it out of this crisis. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The biggest humpback city hospitals. I told you about the city hospitals in detail, and I don't have time to go in any further. You've turned every village upside down, midwife, health clinic, hospital and specialist in the county and gathered them at the center. The attendings, unfortunately, have gone from the counties to the centers, and if you hadn't given the poor orphan's rights to someone in health at least, but you've given the city hospitals the rights of an unfinished orphan, and you've done the nation's justice. We're against Ranta, we're not against the hospital, and don't take this the wrong way.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0872par0286	You're against the hospital, to the hospital! You're against the hospital!
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0287	Last time I spoke, I swore we wouldn't crush our sacred profession, like medicine, under the law of you or international capital. Again, we'll stick to that oath, and in the power of the good party...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0873par0288	Mr. Brave, I'll turn on the microphone to greet you, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0867par0289	Thank you. Last time I spoke, I told you we wouldn't feed our sacred profession, like medicine, to you or to international capital. Again, we're going to stick to our vows, and the Department of Health in the PDA is going to be the Ministry of 1.5 million health workers, and we're not going to feed our physicians and our medical staff to you. I salute you all. I wish you well in the budget. Next year, we'll make this budget for the medics and for our nation, hopefully, with a visionary, modern budget.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0874par0294	You didn't tell me who to do it with. Who are you, who are you?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0875par0295	İstanbul MP Memet Bkent Karataş on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Karastone.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0876par0298	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 7th Amendment. I wish that our Veteran Parliament's 2022 year budget, which will come to life with its appreciation, will be blessed and fortunate for our country and our nation. I salute your grand delegation and our Veteran Assembly. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, as you all know, a historic coup on the Armenian invasion of Karabakh last year, which lasted nearly thirty years, has been restored to Azerbaijan territory. The victory of Karabakh, which chokes the national hearts, has been one of the most glorious, epic achievements the Turkish nation has achieved in recent years. In this case, the chains of captivity were removed, and the land of Azerbaijan was declared to be the permanent home of Karabağ. In this war, Azerbaijan liberated a significant portion of his occupied territory with Turkey's support and heroic struggle, giving Armenia a clear defeat. This war has shown that Armenia is unsustainable for the invasion of Azerbaijan territory. Azerbaijan has used his right to self-defense to end the invasion of his own territory, which has been a subject to decisions that have not been implemented by the Security Council for years. Azerbaijan was unable to give up on the challenges he faced; he claimed his homeland, his rights, his law, his own lands. On November 8, 2020, the rescue of Shusha, located in Karabak's village of Karabağ, shattered the dreams of the terrorist state of Armenia. It is not only a victory over Armenia, but it is also the best answer to those who have tolerated injustice and unlawfulness for many years, and to those who remain silent. Fortunately, the right has found its owner, and the Turkish people have won a great victory. He must have paid for the blood he spilled from Armenia. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear MPs, just after this historic victory, we, the Commission for Human Rights of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, have made a series of visits and reviews in Baku, the capital of our brother country, Azerbaijan. During these visits, we also visited the cities of Gence, Berde, and Terter, who suffered the attacks of Armenia and suffered the loss of civilian lives, and lived together with the suffering of persecution, and the happiness of the expected victory, because we are the branches of a great tree that feeds from the same root, and we are the children of a great nation. We are the children of Mete, Attila, Ash Tigin, Alparslan, Nizami Gencevi, Nesimi, Fuzuli, and Dede Korkut. The whole world must know that the brotherhood of Azerbaijan and Turkey comes from time to time and lies in the midwife. It has to be known that two countries, whose religion, language, nationality are one, who are bound by historical brotherhood, will be together forever, as they were yesterday, as they were today, and so will tomorrow. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] The sad and exemplary events of Turkish and Islamic homes leave deep marks on national consciences. What happened in Kerkuk, a Turkmenite, is one of them. Those who make plans to put Kerkuk (Kerkuk) into the hand of the hepmerge must never forget that everything happens in the world, but Kerkuk cannot be Turkish without Turkish; Kerkuk is Turkish, the Turkmen's life. (MHP and AK PARTY) Those who try to reduce Turkmen's honour in Kerkouk to minorities do not yet realize what a fiery fire they are playing with. Our call is that those who plot against Kerkuk's status and historical fabric must learn from history and be mindful as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the Cyprus issue has been on the agenda of the country and the world for nearly 60 years. Cyprus is our indispensable national issue. The public goal of Turkish Cypriots based on equality and sovereignty is constantly blocked by the Greek Cypriots. With this attitude free of good intentions, the creation of a fair and just solution in Cyprus is being sabotaged. It should be well known that the Greeks were the only ones who feared the solution to the Cyprus issue, who fled peace and reconciliation. The Greek Cypriots interrupted the negotiation process with their uncompromising stance. It is unacceptable for the Greeks to treat Turks as minorities on the island. Thus, the establishment of a joint state in Cyprus has become impossible in today's environment. Turkish Cypriots are ready to cut off their own umbilical cord and are determined to do so. All the efforts of the Greeks, disbanding the negotiating tables, refusing to compromise, dynamiteing the hope of a solution, are futile. In this scope, it has been understood that the talks traffic based on the federation is meaningless, and that there is no other option but a two-state solution. The presence of two separate states in Cyprus must now be accepted by all. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a brief assessment of the Ahiska Turks, which I often take part in my General Assembly talks. As it is known, the Soviet Union, led by Stalin, banished tens of thousands of Ahıska Turks living in the Ahiska region of Georgia on November 14, 1944, for threatening border security, for nearly a month, more than 17,000 Ahıska Turks died of hunger and cold during exile. Sadly, the exile did not end with this, but our Christian brothers and sisters, who were affected by the conflict in the places they passed away, had to change places from time to time. The removal of 100,000 Ahiska Turks from their homeland has been one of the greatest pains of the 20th century. Despite all these sufferings, our country, which stands by every step on the path of a safer, peaceful, prosperous, righteous world, has also extended a helping hand to the Turks of Ahýska. As a result of joint attempts by our Foreign Ministry with Georgia, 1,700 Sasquatch Turks returned to their homeland. About 100,000 people living in Turkey have been granted citizenship and a long-term residence permit. They were placed in Bitlis Ahlat, one of the Turks' first homes in Anatolia, and Erzincan Grapes. Dear MPs, I would like to share with you the years of the exile of Kamile Azarova, who was seven years old during exile, and the words of his happiness when it came to Turkey. Auntie Kamile expressed her feelings in these words: "I remember everything, as I remember today. They put us all in cars. I'll never forget the screams and the cries of the people in the wagons, and no one would ever forget them; those voices, those voices, they reached the sky. The trip was so hard, it was so cold. My youngest brother was only a few months old, and one morning I woke up and I thought he was freezing to death. How we suffered along the way, when people cried and prayed. It lasted a month, and then they left us in Uzbekistan. We've wanted to come to Turkey all our lives. Our father used to tell us that Turkey was your homeland. There was no other country but Turkey. I finally got Turkey in the eyes of the world before I died. Despite all these challenges, I would like to thank our Foreign Minister, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeoglu and the members of the Ministry for their selfless work for the Ahiska Turks who preserve their own self and never forget their Turkishness.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0877par0312	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0876par0313	I salute the Turkish Union, which will one day be sure to happen. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly as I end my words. I pray that our 2022 budget will be good for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0877par0316	Mardin MP Ebrü Günay on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günay.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0878par0319	Mr. President, I salute our people from here, if there are any worthy MPs and, of course, those who are awake at this hour of the night. We've been through a very busy discussion for 11 days, and we're still trying to talk about the budget. Everyone's tired at this time of night, but it's important to talk and express our views on the budget. We all know this budget is not a public budget. This budget was organised not as a budget of the people, but as a budget of the palace, both in the commission process and in this two-week process of the General Assembly. We have tried to use your voice as a HDP to decipher and explain all corruption, irregularities, injustices to defend our rights. That's what I'm saying, for our people. We, the HDP, have defended the public's budget against the palace's budget during budget talks. Budget talks may be ending, but we will continue to tell the oppressed, the workers, the women, the young, the children, the enemy's policies against nature; the separatist policies that make identities, cultures, languages single. Our dear people have never been so recklessly involved in the purchases of public institutions, such practices as torpedoes, favours, personal ads. The inequality of occupations during this period of power has been seen to be set up according to the people who were wanted. While education should be provided on the basis of the principle of equality, equipped with linguistic, cognitive and technological competencies, this government has tried to turn universities into city buildings with ideological obsessions and unqualified curriculums. Although nearly 7,000 academics from universities were expelled in a arbitrary and unlawful manner, and were acquitted of the extradition of peace academics in cases where they were tried, and the Constitutional Court decided to issue a decision on freedom of expression, the government tried to convert private ads and universities into companies. You're looking at city acquisitions, AKP referenced individuals, you're looking at universities, special ads have been placed on the wife, brother, nephew. There are five people in this country who have given the university and their spouse special staff and set the conditions according to their spouse, and five who have scored, who have managed to cancel their application. It happened in your power, all these irregularities. The torpedo is run by a system based on corruption, nepotism, lack of integrity, power. Unfortunately, you speak proudly when it comes to this painting you should be ashamed of. The academics demanding peace, demanding job guarantees, research workers, administrative and technical staff with their labor and rights, students who refused to accept mortgages intended for their will and future were pushed out of universities during this period. The Undeclared State of Emergency Commission has concluded its application for peace academics after five years of decision-making. These decisions, which were clearly illegal, political and arbitrary, were not only the result of political accounts of power, but were also transformed into the instrument of a reckoning and punishment against opposition, free thought and demand for peace. In Turkey, education institutions and universities in particular, especially NGOs, are essential to a radical transformation. And we will continue to fight until they become places of freedom of university, academic freedom, democracy, freedom of thought and expression; job guarantees in universities, integrity prevails. Dear lawmakers, capitalism has led to an increasingly deepening civilization and ecological crisis today through the economic crisis created by labor across the world through the exploitation of nature and women. Companies and governments continue to wreak havoc on nature in a non-returning barbarity. Natural and cultural beings, construction, mining and energy companies in Turkey, where we live under the AK PARTI rule, are being looted at an unimaginable rate. As our cities become uninhabitable because of the nature-based policies, agricultural fields, energy and mining projects are being launched and destroyed. With these ill-advised policies at court, all of our public assets are being transferred to subsidiary companies. For years we've been calling for the end of ecological destruction and massacres in this chair; we say: "Stop this plunder of nature." We say: "You are putting our future in greater danger every day because you are pursuing nature." And we say: "Who do we call an ecology-based budget in this Parliament?" Unfortunately, this power, if there's one last tree left in the world, it can go and find it and destroy ecologically enough to cut it down. Precious lawmakers, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Mardin-Artuklu, have launched 14 properties, probably trying to enrich someone from there, and again, Gül and Tepebaş neighborhood in Yeşeli district of Mardin was declared a risky area by the Council of Ministers' decision in 2016. Following this decision, the AKP's Green City Municipality and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization's Public Housing Administration have identified each two neighborhoods as urban transformation sites. In January 2021, the destruction of buildings set out as part of the project in the district began, but the project was not accepted as a violation of the county's historical and architectural fabric, and most of the houses established in the district were destroyed before the reboot process was completed. Citizens who do not wish to evacuate their homes have been asked to evacuate their homes; electricity and water have been cut; citizens have been removed from their homes, beaten and taken into custody by police. In response to my proposal to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the project, which will be implemented in the region, is not ready. The project continues to plan on the project, but it has been explained in its words, although the evacuation of homes is reflected in images of forced evacuation, it has been alleged that evacuation procedures have been carried out with the public with the awareness of solidarity, as well as for the five parts that are not understood. As a matter of fact, as it turns out, the project hasn't been done yet, and there's no planning. However, the city and the ministry are concerned with deceiving the public, but we will not allow you to victimize the public in public. We, despite the public, will not allow you to continue this plundering order, and I would like to say from here, again, that the struggle of the peoples who resist this occupational order, these destruction policies, will win. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, we, the People's Democratic Party Women's Assembly, have visited women whose labor has been exploited and destroyed in Mardin, as has been in many counties as part of our Women's Poverty Campaign. Among the women we visited were Suryan women. Stiff women continue to pay heavy prices for both their beliefs and female identities. Human crimes, which were exposed to Suryan women yesterday, continue to be outcast and sexist, as they continue today. Many women have been forced to leave their living spaces due to exclusion and security problems and to go abroad. The year is nearly 2022, but still unsecured in schools, the Suryan children are exposed to pressures that are not going to heaven by teachers and students, but to religion. Young Suryanan women who have had to leave school due to discrimination and harassment are blocked from education, while policies are not developed to prevent this attack. Enemy policies against women continue in every direction, everywhere. So, what do the Süryan women want with us? When the kids go to school, something happens to them all the time, they don't want to worry about it. They want to live their faith in safety. They don't want to abandon their homes, their habitats, because of pressure and fear. Young women want to continue their education fearlessly. They want their exclusion, their anti-otherisation policy to end. We, the HDP, want a world equal, fair and exploited for women, and we will do whatever we can to make it happen. And that's a woman's word from here. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0879par0330	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Osman Mesten. Here you go, Mr. Meten.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0880par0333	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our great House, our nation. We've come to the end of the budget marathon; from time to time, we've had tensions, fights that wouldn't suit our Parliament, we're nervous, we're upset. Now, I would like to reduce our tensions a little bit and share with you some of the poems of the great poet Sezai Karakoc, whom we submitted to Rahmetirahman a month ago by presenting out of context from the musk, as the ancients call it. I don't carry love like a flower on my chest I carry love like a bullet in my chest I've stood by the iron door of love I live like I don't live. I carry love like a bullet in my chest. Without making any concessions from faith and principles, he lives as if he were not really living and completes the world exile and quietly leaves us with masterpieces in our world of art and ideas. In this regard, the life, poetry, and ideas of the deceased are indistinguishable. And alone, alone as the ashes of cigarettes. It's a good thing the crowds don't know, Although he found comfort in the rain from behind the glass, he never stopped, wrote, spoke, and began political action, as poets and inventors, from fulfilling his responsibility to mankind, against history. They think if we shut up, we'll be fine. But history won't shut up if we shut up. If history were silent, the truth would not be silent. He did not hold back from shouting the truth and the way out until his last breath. This is our assignment to the community, to say what we believe is right. If we came down from the banks of the great rivers into the middle of the great cities like a typhoon, that's why. I've come and the heavens have not opened What if the clouds expect something from me? Life is death, love is a cliff The heavens have not opened up since I have come. Even though the heavens have not opened, most of them have deaf ears, blind eyes, and their tongues have been cut off, yet they have cast the resurrection like David into the heavens. And in five hundred years, even after him, there will be those who will listen to him, and those who will enjoy themselves. He is a trapped and compressed genius, as his fellow poet Cemal Tarayya said. He is a poet and a vehement poet. ▪ Don't look at me lying around in the past tense I'm one of the future's black-eyed tyrants. You haven't left a single corner for me I own every corner that exists and will ever be I'm one of the future's black-eyed tyrants. How many corners are you? The flowerpots staring at their corners like they're a piece of cake She'll kiss the carpets and embroider them like embroidered feet You tell me, what does a man do when he's not happy to die? The flowerpots staring at the corners like they're a piece of cake You were weird. You had a brand-new voice. That's me. That's me. That's me. That was a quiet snow that wets my hair. And you laughed, and it rained in colors. Hot as a wounded gazelle's eyes You had a deep voice like a wounded gazelle's heart Here, the great poet, who made our hearts tremble with his deep voice, wrote naat to the client's Mona Roza. With his metaphysical tension, with the pains of existence and lack, he has sought the glory of the one that exists. I was banished from your heart at first All my exiles are, in a way, a continuation of this exile. All your ceremonies, your feasts, your rituals... I've come to you I've come to fall at your feet I've come to ask for forgiveness even though I'm not worthy of forgiveness I'm gonna rip your love from this most uncompromising of all Oh, don't prolong my exile to the world Time is the horse's last dream. The house is not a legacy. It's the ghost of the legacy. If I said Suna, you said Leyla, it's you. I took advantage of Salome's footage to hide you from Belkis. You're so obvious that I'm not trying to hide it. Birds fly to imitate your heart The sea gets the news of eternity from your eyes O the softest of hearts, the deepest of them all Don't prolong my exile to the world [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] What about the birds in your country? There's a spring rising from the graves What's wrong with the hangman of love if he's a lover? There's more than nothing and there's more to it than nothing. It's not always my fault. There's always an evil eye burning me. There are lines to sing that song Don't say fate. There's a destiny above destiny. Whatever they do, there's a decision coming from the empty skies. If the sun goes down, there's an architect who can fix the night. If I'm burned, there's a fort made of ashes. There's a growing victory over defeat. You have the key to unlocking secrets. There's a vein in his chest that calls back his exile. There's a tree in your heart called mercy that I don't give up on you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish our budget of 2022 was good for our nation, and I wish that the minimum wage set today would be good for our nation, and I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0881par0431	Yes, thank you for the poem. At this hour of the night, these poems stroked our souls. Now, I promise Mr. Free Private, but we also expect a poetic speech.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0882par0433	No hard feelings, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0883par0434	Let Mr. Osman take a look at Mesten.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0884par0435	First they tell stories, now they read poems.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0885par0436	Yes, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I'd like to invite Mr. Free Private. Ten minutes in the name of the group, five minutes in the name of the person, 15 minutes in total. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0886par0440	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, after this beautiful speech by Mr. Mesten, I've even thought about pulling the speech, but there's also a budget that needs to be discussed. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is the last day of budget negotiations. We're having our final talks before closing tomorrow. 21 days in the Plan and Budget Commission and 11 days in the General Assembly, we followed a budget that was under constant discussion. We're doing one of the most memorable budgets in the history of the Republic and Parliament. The fact that it will not be forgotten is not because of the resources, sizes, hopes, and expectations it creates, but because of what happened in the country and the economy when the budget was discussed. For the first time in a budget, the Minister of the Plans and Budget Commission is not in the General Assembly, and he is no longer the Minister. He was dismissed in front of all of us because the Minister before this Minister, who had resisted a lot of orders and ambitions that he knew were of no use to Turkey for no reason, no reason. In fact, at a group meeting, he was deposed when he had his hands together and everyone else was clapping their hands. You've been replaced by another Minister. We know the new Minister from the House. We have nothing to say to his personality, to his personality, but a minister of no economic training has been appointed head of the economy. From the day he was appointed to this day, the only true word he spoke about the economy was the work of the Jews. The markets wanted confidence, that's true, but the fact that he was assigned to this mission was enough to undermine that trust. No education in economics, 3 semesters as a member of parliament. He was not chosen for the Ministry of Economics at a time when MPs could be ministers. The Justice and Development Party elected five presidents of the Plan and Budget Commission during its mandate. He was not brought to the head of the Commission, where those who had strong economic training were appointed. That commission was 40 people, 25 AK PARTI MPs were preferred; he was not preferred to that Commission. Not one, but four times during his term as a member of parliament who understood the economy, but he wasn't on the Plan and Budget Commission. He was assigned to the Industrial Commission, he served on the Commission. Today, in the greatest economic crisis in the history of the Republic, at the head of the economy, at the helm of the ship, there is no captain's license, captain, but no captain's training, captain, but no captain's experience. On a ship with 84 million in it, and on this budget, the AK PARTI MPs have read a number of sures and meanings; you're right, you're right to read all the chapters and all the prayers you know, because the ship's captain doesn't have a captain's license. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We're dealing with the most tragic budget in the history of the Republic. After budgets are made, additional budgets can sometimes be demanded due to unpredictable crises. It's been a long time, it's been done in October or November, it was once in June in the 2001 crisis, but before this budget was agreed, someone from the Reuters news agency leaked to the Reuters news agency that there was an additional budget preparation. A more clumsy step, a worse economy management, a more insecurities, a creative sharing, and a confession that the situation is worse than the 2001 crisis, a clear confession that the budget can't afford next year. The opposition has urged the withdrawal of this budget, and several lawmakers have insisted on the issue. Because when this budget was being budgeted, there was no foreseen size. For example, when this budget was being made, you predicted that the dollar was $8.30 for 2021, 9.27 for 2022, and as of today, there's a dollar dry that goes under $16. You said last month, 21.3; exit resistance persists. Scientists say that the actual inflation is at 50, and there's no doubt that TÜİK would no longer be able to hide the spear in the sack and that these numbers would move towards 50. You're trying to manipulate the market with short-term lies, perception operations, lies to save the day at a point where your presumption, inflation didn't hold up, unemployment didn't hold up. We are in such a process that all economists in the world say interest is the result of bad governance, but an economist, an economist, a hypothesymist, says that the cause of interest is the result of inflation. But it is being preached with the power of its influence, its unlimited authority in the Constitution. The resistance is pardoned from the mission, and those who agree and repeat it are treated as Minister of Economics regardless of their education, experience. The country has become a dystopic novel. To guide the psychology of society, not to the markets, but to guide psychology, a demon is first introduced called the Chinese model, and then it's evolved to say that it's a local model. Nasrettin Hodja falls off the donkey, and when the children start to laugh, he says that he didn't actually fall down or fall down. In 2019-2020, they burned $128 billion to keep the rising interest from various levels but at the latest 6.80. Our grandfathers, our grandmothers, our mothers, our father's sweat, our eyes shined, our $128 billion reserve, guaranteed for all of our futures, was sold by Colonel Colonel Recep Tayyip Erdogan's son-in-law. Right now, our reserve is minus 50 billion dollars, our net reserve. The gross reserve is 122 billion dollars, including our world's obligations, debt and all, but with a perception management, it's lying to the public as if 128 billion were missing, and the same drug is being continued. Last year, today, the dollar was 7,83, which is now 15.6, which is just twice that much, and it was on the 16th border yesterday. And under the circumstances, what you're making up is not possible to fight the fictitious enemy external forces, nor is it possible to intervene in markets because our actor in the markets is our Central Bank, he's our boxer. If you leave her alone, she'll struggle and struggle, she'll try to survive, but if you put a belt on her waist, pull her when it suits you, push her when it suits you, don't expect a performance from that boxer in that ring. The boxer has two hands; one of these hands is a currency reserve, you turn it around back, the other hand is an instrument of interest, and we see it with today's explanation that you are unable to use it, and under the circumstances, the boxer is helpless in the ring, and we are all being beaten. The minister in charge of the economy, since we don't have a dollar reserve to sell, if you sell $100 million to the business people, it'll be fine. In fact, it says that we don't have a reserve of our own. That's the extent of the intervention with the money of the hand. Let's step into the market with your dollar. In fact, when our driver's licenseless captain says he's going to calm down his beating, he's saying in such a simple way that he's desperate and naive about it, that he's coming out of a very positive meeting, that people can't say anything to his face after the meeting, that everyone's attacking the foreign currency, which is the business world, which understands economics, which doesn't happen with this understanding, not with this minister, not with this dry stubbornness. Nasrettin Hodja, if I didn't fall, I'd get off. He laughs when he says, but when the economy does that, he'll make us all crawl because you don't have little kids. Everyone who follows the markets with their education, with their savings, with their experience, our friend, our enemy, everyone knows that they are not true and that we are led to disaster. Believe me, Mr. Secretary, even the children who laughed at Nasrettin Hoxha are going to stand up to you after these words, Uncle Bakan, Uncle Minister, if the dollar was planned to rise, why is the Central Bank trying to sell dollars to lower the dollar? Or Uncle Minister, if the dollar is going to increase, why do we all know that the export income will increase, and that the business will fall open, and that the money they bring in would shut down the deficit and reduce inflation, and some change would fall to the businessmen a little bit. And why would you ask the business managers, and why would you ask them to ask them, "Why would they have no exchanges?" Some of us will definitely not intervene outside the rules at the meeting. We have heard that you said you were trying to secure the markets from here, but three work days later, we carefully monitor the accounts that turned Turkish lira into foreign currency. There is no sense in your trust that you gave to the importer that day when you sent the threat letter to the banks. It's a story of China... a story that we've accomplished for days from certain accounts, from certain pens: the same way we've done it. One minute you're looking at China, the last 25 years of China, the last 25 years of China has not passed 3 percent of inflation except one year in China. In China, currency was never played, it was kept steady, and in China, real interest was never negative. When China was bringing its national income from $1,000 to $10,500, we were able to get from 3,000 to 8,000 dollars at that time, to do the exact opposite of what you said. No, if what you're saying is China is China of the 1978s, then I understand why Recep Tayyip Erdogan read the Bakara Surah, and why he said, "We will try you with a little fear and hunger, by reducing goods, lives, and products, be patient." Because what you're saying is that China is the Chinese of peasants working in the countryside with a plate of rice porridge, working in labor dorms near the factory, working for 18 hours for food and one child constraint. If you're talking about that Chinese, it's a place to read the baccarat. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the last three months, you've been downsizing four points of interest, but at interest, you're overindulging five points to where you're getting paid. Because there's no trust, the insecurities, the debt costs are taking us up, and it increases the debt burden of 80 per cent of the public's debt by 2 trillion dollars, because it's sensitive to interest and currency. Today's courtship attacks, increasing inflation, increasing poverty, increasing despair, panic inside, loneliness outside, there's only one person responsible, and there's only one person responsible. You've directed thank-you a moment ago, but it's the only man responsible for coming in today with a promise to equalise $1.4 euros to $1.4 euros today, to hear those who agree on all the powers that have taken place after the Constitution change, to hear the truth, to listen to all the warnings, to forgive your brother the authority, to fight the currency, to fight the inflation, to forgive those who can't bear it, to forgive those who can't bear it, and to forgive those who like it, instead of the three and a half years ago. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0887par0455	President, give me ten minutes, ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0888par0456	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0886par0457	We will be servants of the nation. We will save our workers from their ideas, their plans, their plans, their plans, the fate of this country, the cheapest sweat of the world, the future of our workers, from this evil plan of yours, which is unknown to whom it served before you, such as fate. I salute you all with the hope that the sweats of the workers of this country will be sold to the world at the price of ten-quarters of the sweat of other workers around the world as a social democratic party, in the hope that we will make the budgets of workers, workers, tradesmen, tomorrows.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0888par0459	Promise demands have been met on behalf of the groups...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0889par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0888par0461	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0889par0462	Mr. President, I'm just saying in terms of a correction: the fact that a text expressed on Gaza and Afghanistan at the Parliamentary Union Conference of the Member States of our President's Association of Islamic Co-operation does not reflect the fact that it is expressed here as if it had been read for Turkey. I hereby declare this correction for the record.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0890par0464	So the rest of it's true. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-16sit08spe0891par0470	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0891par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 38th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the discussions of the 2020 Central Management Competitive Accounting Law Proposal. The commission is in place. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The last word for the individuals is from Mr. Tamer Osmanakaoğlu of İzmir MP. Here you are, Mr. Osmanakaoğlu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0892par0012	I bid everyone good night this time of night. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 7th Amendment of the 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. I salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation. The year 2020 is the most intense year of fighting the Covid-19 epidemic, which has had its effects in our country as it has in the world. The effects of the global pandemic, which, no doubt, caused deep wounds by social, economic, and political effects, continued in 2021. On the other hand, it is very important that our country maintains its position in the field right next to its neighbours, fighting political and economic depressions. This post was a source of hope and inspiration not only for the Turkish nation, but also for the oppressed nations in the grips of global political barons, especially the Turkish world. It's a hope that the bolted doors can see that the days are near when they will be re-stealed with unstuck hopes. It's an inspiration that yesterday's imprisoned hearts can feel that goals beyond tomorrow are much closer than expected, that the composition of our brand-new goals can be rebuilt. This source of hope should not be underestimated, nor should this fountain of inspiration be wasted. In the future, new investment areas, new projects, in line with the dynamics of the world economy and the needs of our country, must continue to be implemented. Despite those who constantly seek to complain about the solution in spite of those seeking their political interests in the face of the Turkish state and its nation, our entrepreneurs are aware of that, despite those who are the fundamental dynamics of our economy. Turkey has already caught a new wind with its entrepreneurial spirit, unsettled from its stagnation. There is a Turkey that demonstrates its presence and power more effectively on the international level with its own brands, firms. Mr. President, dear MPs, I would like to express on behalf of our lzmir, a few important things about our beautiful Izmir, and to thank those who have done the work. Our beautiful Izmir, with cultural springs in every corner, walks through the 100th year of our republic with a wave of growing culture. He will embrace his past with his modern face in the heart of our lzmir, and the Ataturk County Public Library project has been approved in the past weeks. I hope to give you the good news that this work, which will be given to us in the upcoming budget talks, will come into service. On the other hand, it has been a full year since 117 of our citizens died, hundreds of our citizens were injured, and millions of hearts were struck with the word "Izmir. " As promised to our citizens in less than a year, I would like to thank all the authorities on behalf of our citizens of Izmir for the handover of new people, whose damaged dwellings and workplaces have been replaced by our government's superior effort. On the other hand, there is no doubt in our Beydağ district that our new state hospital, which ends in rough construction, will be completed in 2022 and presented to the services of our citizens. It is a pleasure to have the Courthouse tendered to the Aliya. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our leader, State Gardener, are the definition of a high virtue that is willing to give up everything when it comes to it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0893par0022	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0892par0023	Our country is the rise of the Turkish nation, where the Turkish nation deserves to be brought to its rightful place in the fight against the nations. Our belief is that at the beginning of the last century, the Turkish nation, who showed the world the epics that it had written about what Turkish meant, would still remind the world of what Turk would have written in this century, and the Turkish Union would surely one day be formed. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that our budget for 2022 would bring blessings to our government, our nation, and I salute you all, I bid you good night.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0894par0028	Congressmans, I'm going to make a promise to the Deputy Directors of the Group, and then we'll continue our negotiations. Mr. Dervisoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0895par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Nureddin Nebati, our Treasury and Finance Minister for his tolerance. In 2022, we have completed discussion of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal, and the Articles of the Central Management Law of 2020. As I've said before, the republic's largest courtship crisis has exhausted 40 per cent of the budget before it's voted in parliament, so the budget that we're actually meeting doesn't exist now. Due to recent courtship fluctuations, our debt supply has increased by 4.8 trillion liras. And never will they be reminded. Slippery and lack of integrity are still at its final pace. The day before it was announced by the Central Bank, it is grave that the decision of interest should be known and shared with the public by the Minister's brother. When the explanation was made, the dollar was under $15, and now it's around 15.67. There's a concept called "Insider transding" in Turkish, which means sharing information that may affect the value of the company market tools with third parties to benefit the public. This is a direct crime. From yesterday to today, it is a question of who has profited and whether the prosecutors will be aware of the situation and act on it. Honourable lawmakers, due to the government's wrong economy management, the Central Bank has gradually reduced policy interest since March. On March 19, 2021, the policy interest was at 19 per cent; on September 24, you lowered policy interest to 18 per cent; on October 22, the dollar rose to 8.82 per cent; on October 22, you reduced it to 16 per cent; on November 19, 2021, you raised policy interest to 15 per cent; on November 19, 2021, you increased policy interest to 15 per cent, and the dollar to 11.03 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0896par0036	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0895par0037	On December 16, 2021, the day we left behind, you reduced policy interest to 14 percent, and the dollar went up to 15.67. You still don't see the truth. And you continue to sell foreign currency from the Central Bank in order to reduce your preferentially raised dollar bill. Inflation, inflation, the theory, did not work that way. The reduction of policy interest by political pressure has increased inflation along with the exchange rate. On March 19, 2021, the five-year interest on state bonds reached 23.58 per cent today at 14.75 per cent. I urge you to learn from them. And there are some numbers that Mr. Secretary has shared with our House, which I'd like to mention to you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0896par0040	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0895par0041	According to our Treasury and Finance Minister, Mr. Nebati, at the minimum wage today, it is stated that the beef can be bought at 46 kilograms. At the current minimum wage, 33 kilograms of meat can be bought. Again, according to the minister, 22 tubes can be bought -- with the current minimum wage -- but 13 can be bought at the current rate. Again, according to Mr. Nebati, 368 litres of gas can be bought at the minimum wage available. However, with the current minimum wage, it is possible to buy 271 litres of gas. Again, according to our minister, the current minimum wage can buy 361 kilograms of bread. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's my last word, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0896par0044	Mr. Dervisoglu, this is the last time I'll open it.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0895par0045	Thank you. However, according to our research, 282 kilograms of bread can be bought at the minimum wage available. Also, at minimum wage in 2003, 13 quarters of gold were purchased, while at the minimum wage in 2021, unfortunately, only 2.5 and a quarter of gold can be bought. I'd like Mr. Secretary to give us the address of the butcher he was shopping for, the bakery he was shopping for, the tube gas dealership he was shopping for. Let's get gas and engine from the same station. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] I wish that the budget, in spite of everything, would lead to charity, and pay my respects to the General Assembly. And thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0897par0049	I thank you. Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0898par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've completed our budgetary negotiations tonight, along with the provisions of the budget law, and hopefully we'll be able to close the budget tomorrow. I'd like to thank all of our congressman friends, contributors, executive representatives, especially our Minister, and our members of Parliament. God willing, I pray that the 2022 budget brings blessings. And in the spirit of unity, I repeat our belief that we will never, ever, despair, overcome the challenges, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0899par0057	Thank you. Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0900par0059	I'm not going to talk, Mr. President, I'm going to talk tomorrow.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0899par0060	Well, thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0901par0062	Mr. President, I've just done my evaluations. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0899par0064	I thank you. Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0902par0066	Mr. President, with a very brief assessment, I won't keep my promises for long. Of course, we've been talking for days, but when we look at the bigger picture here, I've made some notes, and I think it's important for the record. In 2002, interest spending was 43 percent reduced to 13 per cent, so 43 per cent of the budget was earmarked for interest costs, and 13 per cent today. So, what's the result of this? The funding for education in 2002 increased from 11 billion to 273 billion today.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0899par0069	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0902par0070	The source of healthcare was 13 billion, and today it went up to 304 billion. The source of social aid increased to 1.6 billion in 2002 to 104 billion today. Even these few examples -- with the interest spending in the budget falling to 13 percent -- are actually important to explain where this money went, how it became an investment, and how it represents the value of the budget we're talking about today. At this time of night, I won't say too much. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0903par0073	Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, I'm going to give our 10 congressmen a minute of their place. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0904par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Isn't it a contradiction in your government that public-private cooperation projects such as highways, bridges, tunnels and city hospitals are being paid in exchange when citizens are banned from their trade contracts in the decision to maintain Turkish currency on September 12, 2018? Aren't you in violation of the presidential decree by making money worth dollars and making Turkish lira worthless? Why don't you convert public-private cooperation payments to Turkish lira in an environment where the dollar is $16 and the euro is $18? Also, Mr. Secretary, is your membership in the Turkish Telecom Management Board still under way? This is the third time I've asked you this question, and I hope you'll answer it this time. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0905par0083	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0906par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, in this period, the Treasury and Finance Minister's change, the loss of the TL's value and continued, uncontrollable price hikes, unemployment, interest, minimum wage, accepted New Economy Programme, which was discussed in the National Security Council, we have continued budget talks here in these discussions. We've seen the responsibilities of concerned ministers, the problems of our citizens in their fields that are facing solutions, the instructions they receive instead of funding transfers, solutions, and future commitments. Now, the expectation of you, Mr. Secretary, is that you will be here, free of all that reality, all that envy, to fund all of our citizens' problems that are being addressed and expressed here by the opposition. I wish you well on your budget. I hope there will be a budget for our country and for the problems of our citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0907par0088	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0908par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Kayseri has a story about a speeding train that never ends. The promised Kayseri Yerköy Speed Train Project, which has been announced since 2010, was again announced by the Minister of Transport today. No one's promised me a fast train back to the snake story. Every bureaucrat, minister, MP, prime minister who came to Kayseri promised, left; the president promised, and left. You see, the fast train couldn't come to Kayseri, couldn't come. Every year since 2014, every election was held this year, the fast train contract will be held. You said, but that's enough! The Kaisers don't believe you, they don't trust you. And I wish to give you good news from this (state): O my people of Kayshir! this power will not give you good news, for they are gone. We are coming, and we are going to bring the train, and he says to Kayseri. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0909par0093	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0910par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish our budget of 2022 to be blessed and prosperous for our country, for our nation. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, has given my thanks and thanks to our sainted nation, who has given us the authority to budget for the 20th time by relying on the EC PARTY staff under strong leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. As we have not failed this trust in the past, by the leave of God, we will never fail it again. We will continue to deliver from education to health, security to security, to build the great and powerful Turkey, under the strong leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, from industry to economics. In addition, I wish our President's minimum wage today would be good for our fellow workers, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0911par0099	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0912par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. On the first day of the budget talks, Republican People's Party President Mr. Kilicdaroglu's hand gesture on the parliamentary platform was met with a reaction both in this General Assembly and in public, and I'm afraid there was no apology from CHP for this ugly move. Unfortunately, the other day at the cafe opening of Izmit City, the city's press adviser made the same move, so the move turned into pandemic; his vaccine, as Haci Bektas Veli said, is that the politician has his hand, his waist, his tongue, and his lack of a bad example. And when the time comes, these mighty people will ask him and his chosen ones for their disrespectful actions. I wish you good evening, for the budget and for the minimum wage announced yesterday, for our nation, for our country.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0913par0104	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0914par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. The Treasury and Finance Ministry's Action Report for 2020 also assumes the duties of the General Manager to conduct business and operations related to the commitment of the Ministry for public-private co-operation projects. When the government praised these projects, it said, "There will be no money left in our pockets." What, then, is the commitment to the ministry's action report? How much did he owe in 2021? How much is the total burden of this project on the economy? Why hasn't the ministry explained the income-guider balance of 81 projects since 2018, and the stock of debt due to projects? How much resources have already been earmarked by the government for public-special cooperation projects? Why is an investigation into irregularities that have been uncovered in the city hospitals, which lead to these projects, and reflected in the Court's reports?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0915par0108	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0916par0109	You'd put a $44 billion revenue bid in the budget from the Akaryat UV. Since the simultaneous mobile system is reset, the budget does not amount to a dime; in this case, there is a concern for a large increase in fuel. We're waiting for an explanation. Because of the increase in dollars, the budget didn't hold up. How large an additional budget are you thinking? As a result of the wrong policies and drought of the EC PARTY, at the end of this year, about 14 million tonnes of wheat are expected. This development, which means more imports, will increase the price of wheat. How do you plan to prevent the increase in bread prices? Will the citizens continue to wait in the breadlines? Again, how do you plan to prevent increased food prices? Photo of members of the ASELSAN Governing Body has been released at Turkey's Doha Embassy. How do you explain this, Mr. Secretary, when there are questions about the sale of ASELSAN? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0917par0114	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0918par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. The number of families in Adana who are in need of social and cash is increasing day by day. It has been reflected in public opinion that the difficulties in the operations carried out by the governor's office and the governor's office have been victimised. How many social and cash benefits have been applied for in the last two years? How many of the applications have been rejected? What's the grounds for rejection? What's the amount of help? Is the rise in government officials' salaries, which do not have a title, planned? Because of rising fertilizer and flour feed prices, the daily price of bread that a citizen has to consume continues to increase. This has been said over and over again because the farmer was unable to sow. Is there a direct cash contribution for our farmers in the additional budget study that is said to have been prepared? Is there an increase in farmers' support?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0919par0120	Mr. Kemalbay...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0920par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey is not a state of law, we live in a country of bans. Those lost in custody, known as Saturday's Mothers, have been unlawfully banned for a hundred and seventy-three weeks in the Galatasaray Square of Galatasaray. For eight hundred and seventy-three weeks, the government has not been able to pay their losses or apologize or face casualties in custody. Why is the search for the truth that Mothers of Saturday continue for generations to be prevented? Erdogan didn't keep his promise to find the bones of his son he gave to the mother. Now the Galatasaray Square, where their mothers have been searching for their children for years, is banned. You want to criminalize missing persons you've taken into custody for the 7th week.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0919par0123	Mr. Nightingale... no. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0921par0125	The AKP women's deputies rehearsed opposition this evening. And I'm going to sum up what we're going to do for women in the first month when we're in power, as a representative of a ruling candidate party. Our President Kemal Kilicdaroglu has announced it. 1) The Istanbul Convention will be put into effect again and we will fight violently against the woman. Women won't have to call justice on social media. 2) We'll legalize family support insurance. We're going to include domesticity in your legal job description. 3) We will implement 35 per cent quotas in public administration levels and take steps to increase her employment. 4) Create a new start-up fund, strengthen women. 5) We will rearrange maternity leave and provide preventive health care with a strong women's health project.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0922par0132	Let's make a promise to Mr. Erdem, and then we'll make a promise to the Minister. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0923par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Cat, I'd like to ask you a specific question about 18 percent VAT in dog food. The VAT rate in bird and fish feed is 1 per cent, while the cat is 18 per cent of the VAT reflected in dog food. This is a high cost especially for those who feed street animals. In our country, VAT is particularly 1 per cent to 8 per cent in basic needs, while the cat is 18 per cent in dog food sales while 18 per cent in private needs. Is there an arrangement to be made? Our silent friends await good news on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0924par0137	And take the cattle's oath down, please.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0925par0138	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0139	Mr. President, thank you very much. This really suits our Air Council. Hopefully, we'll continue to be united and united in all Turkey's delightful conversations. Thank you very much, Mr. Free Special. Even though he's a pharmacist, and he's never been in the Plan and Budget, I congratulate him on his wonderful economic achievements. I hate to disappoint you, but I also have a captain's license, and I'll show it to you next week. Now, I'm a very valuable Mr. Free Special, graduate of Public Administration at İstanbul University Faculty of Political Information. I got it from a very valuable teacher, who I have a great respect for finances and finances lessons, who gives me every time I see them, from the Republican People's Party Assemblyman Burhan Senatalar. I've learned from him, I'm also acting with what he taught, and I know that the important clues to the model we're proposing today, which you don't like, are Burhan Hodja, who, by opening his hand, manages the country that understands public finances well. He used to say, "I'm trying to be worthy of it."
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0927par0143	Well, clap your hands, now that the CHP's involved, you don't even applaud the Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0928par0144	You guys clap, we already know that.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0145	So I took political science from Ersin Kalajcıoğlu; I took it from İlter Turan Hoxha; I took it from him, from Özgür Bey, from Bakır Çağlar Bey; God bless him; Ali Ülkü Bey taught me the law of governance; I learned the law of punishment from Gelzer Hodja. I had great teachers -- here -- they raised me. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] What we call the Turkish model is what Mr. President has been saying for 19 years, but we're just in time to say something. Look, South Korea started at 93.8 dollars, now at $31,000, China started at $75,000, $10,500 in non-billion income per person; Ghana started at $190, in the same years, at $2,300, it didn't work; Japan started at $568, it came at $40,000. Turkey and the world: the world began with $468, it came to $11,000; Turkey is now $8,500-9, up 40 stories. It's worth $ 000. One thing we're saying is that we're not China, we're not South Korea; we're going from 6,000 kilometers to 28,000 kilometers apart; we're increasing the highway length from 1.714 kilometers to 3,532 kilometers from the distance of the tunnel to the distance of the tunnel from 30 km to the distance of the bridge to 631 kilometers, the number of bridge via the length of the bridge is 311 km to 710 kilometers, the number of fast train networks from zero to 1.213 km to the distance of the airports is from 26.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0929par0149	You don't understand the economy.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0930par0150	Yes, let's wrap it up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0151	Mr. President, 15 minutes, right?
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0930par0152	No, that's not 15 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0153	You gave me five minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0930par0154	Not 15 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0155	Well, what we're saying is very different.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0931par0156	Minister, count what you've done.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0157	We're running with a great staff that's finished its infrastructure, looking forward to the future, building a strong presidential system, mobilising with the country all the resources built on this presidential system, and providing all the efforts it can to create a prosperous society without distinction.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0932par0158	I see where you brought the country, Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0159	And that way, we'll all see that there'll be a quick recovery of our next steps. I'll say my last sentence then, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0933par0161	Mr. Secretary, get to the questions.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0162	We couldn't get to the questions.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0934par0163	He'll answer in writing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0164	I'd like to thank you for your kind entrance to the humble Dervisoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0934par0166	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0926par0167	I can't tell you until the lady has given me permission to be the best Urban who ever lived in a bakery, butcher shop, etcetera, etcetera. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-12-16sit09spe0934par0170	[[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today was the eleventh day, we will have the final talks at tomorrow's merger, and the budget will have a vote. And I, the entire political party that has been contributing to budget talks so far, celebrate all of our members of the Group, our MPs, our ministers, our bureaucrats, our members of the Presidential Court, all of our staff who have worked so hard to run our House, thank you to all of them. [[Applause]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. Members of parliament, therefore, the Articles of the 2020 Centre Management Final Account Law Proposal have been accepted. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. The open vote will be held after the final speeches in tomorrow's merger. According to the programme, the final talks on the entire budget and the 2022-Year Centre Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020-Year Central Management Final Account Law Proposal were held on Friday (December 17th 2021) at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
