tbmm-2021-04-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, Mr. Mevlüt Çavoğlu, who made an official visit to our country at the invitation of Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavoğlu, Mr. Volcano Bozır, the President of the United Nations' 75th General Assembly, wanted to address the General Assembly on Tuesday (April 6th 2021). I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Volcano Bozır and his delegation, Mr. Mustafa Sentop, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have now arrived at our Parliament. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] I would like to call to the stand the President of the 75th General Assembly of the United Nations, Mr. Volcano Bozır. Here you go, Mr. Bozır. [[Applause]] Mr. President, I am honored and proud to be able to address the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today, the President of the United Nations, the President of the United Nations. (Applause) I'm very pleased to be making my first visit to my country as well. The United Nations General Assembly is the only democratic platform and decision-making body in which all countries are represented equally, regardless of the smaller and larger country. I am also very happy to be the first Turkish citizen to take over this mission, especially in the 75th year of the establishment of the United Nations. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] From the moment I began my mission, our Turkish flag is in my office with the flag of the United Nations, and I refer to the special importance of the two flags in all my meetings. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] When I started in New York, the United Nations was on vacation from March because of the Covid epidemic, and the meetings were being held with more video conferences, and when I started out, I used this Parliament as an example; the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where I came from, they meet until morning, they make decisions, they argue, they talk; the United Nations General Assembly doesn't have the luxury of working from home; we will meet for it in the General Assembly, and we will send this message to the world, just as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is sending a message to the world. We've brought it so far. Currently, the only platform collected physically within the 68 UN official platform is the General Assembly. There is no physical meeting at this time, including the Security Council. And for that, I also care and I'm proud. So far, we've had 106 General Assembly meetings, 269 decisions accepted, we've had all the mandatory meetings, and in the coming term, hopefully, we'll make it to the point of this mission. Due to travel restrictions, UN personnel, Secretary General or other unit heads do not travel. I wanted to make the first one, as a Turkish citizen in office, as the president of the United Nations General Assembly, to send a message to the whole world, the president of the United Nations travels, goes to countries, represents the United Nations, and there is no president of the General Assembly who is shut down due to the epidemic and cannot leave New York. And I really started with my country, and we're going from here to Qatar tomorrow, and then we're going to Azerbaijan. From there in Hatay, hopefully, we will be able to deliver a message of extreme distress both in Syria and in the situation of our Syrian brothers and sisters, who we have hosted, humanitarian aid, border doors, and the message of how much trouble they have to carry out and why there should be more border doors -- with messages I'll send for both our country and the United Nations.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit01spe0002par0017	Why did you put Qatar first, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit01spe0003par0018	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit01spe0004par0019	There's no disrespect like that.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit01spe0005par0020	We're in a ranking for the invited countries, and the invitation has arrived, and Qatar is one of the most important contributors to the U.N. budget, so we've put it on the first round. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share with you a little bit of the U.N. perspective on exactly what kind of work we're in there. When I took over, we set four priorities, and you know it. The first priority is that the United Nations and global activities are bound to walk within the principle of multilateralism. If we eliminate this, then the unilateral resolution of the United Nations, the effort to address world problems through one country. Multilateralism is one of the most important elements to him, and we've done it so far. In fact, the fact that the Covid epidemic, in a sense, was essential and that the world could not face this huge pandemic problem with unilateral decisions and that the pandemic could not be solved was a positive side that the pandemic brought to us. The second element: countries in need in the world; their problems are to be addressed in the General Assembly, to be trusted with the General Assembly. Since it's important for the General Assembly to have the voice of these underdeveloped, unseasoned island states, middle-income countries, countries we call our oppressed countries, I've made that one of my priorities. And so far, we've actually organized and established the activities of the United Nations General Assembly for these countries. Another issue: improving women's living standards, becoming more equal in all areas of life, strengthening them is also one of our priorities. I'd like to share with you while we're doing this horizon tour: In 2021, the United Nations data tells us that 235 million people will need humanitarian assistance, and it would require $35 billion to meet the human needs of the most vulnerable 160 million. About 690 million people are in danger of malnourished food, and the origin of the hunger that 72 million people are fighting in 22 countries is conflict and conflict. There is a serious danger of famine, and especially Yemen is one of the countries that most sense the threat of famine, and all these needs are needed at $4 billion. It is estimated that 16 million people will face hunger in the first half of this year. In Myanmar, the largest refugee camp in the world has been the Cox (Cox) Bazar, where 860,000 Rohingian Muslims who fled from violence took refuge in Bangladesh. In the fire that occurred in the region two weeks ago, these brothers -- 45,000 others -- were already living in difficult conditions -- led to a situation without camps, without a place to settle down. Hopefully, I'll make my next visit to Bangladesh to review the status and status of our brothers and sisters from Rohing. I am also concerned that the military coup in Myanmar will only make the situation worse, given the outbreak of Covid. The military coup in Myanmar is required by me and by the strong messages of the Secretary General of the United Nations and the Security Council, and I have assembled the General Assembly of the United Nations regarding this, and we have called for the condemnation of the military coup and the swift termination of the elected prime minister and leader there. As the United Nations, I can assure you that no military coup in any country during my presidency will find support. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] On the other hand, today's biggest human crisis has been happening in Syria near Turkey for ten years. It's hard to describe the real suffering, and I'm constantly trying to keep it on the agenda of the General Assembly. In the last few months, we've gathered three times about Syria. We had various meetings about humanitarian aid in Syria, human rights violations, the situation of Syria, the transition of humanitarian aid. In a sense, when I go to Hatay, we will be able to keep these problems on the agenda of the world once again, and once again to highlight the help our country has done to these refugees, and how important a success has been achieved against all the problems faced by these many people, the people in the conflict, and how much sacrifices have come to this point. We're talking about the world's greatest humanitarian crisis since World War II, especially after Covid's outbreak, and Syria is one of the leading ones. 2.8 million people in Syria are in desperate need of human assistance, and it is important that these doors be brought back to four doors and not only to be satisfied with humanitarian aid in the Cilve-eye, or we may encounter paintings in the northwest Syria where the world will suffer from hunger and shame. Another human issue I stand on with sensitivity is the United Nations Palestinian refugees. It is vital that UNRWA be supported by the aid agency. The resources of this are increasing, and UNRWA is doing important work on the food, health, education of more than 5.5 million Palestinian refugees living in Jordan, Syria, Lebanon and occupied Palestinian territory, but there is a source problem, and if the funding problem continues like this, they will not be able to continue. The United States is one of the most important funding countries in the United States. In our meeting with the US Secretary of State, I reiterated that the United States should provide this source in the old rates of the United States, so that these 5.5 million Palestinian refugees living in these countries don't become more troubled, and then we don't face paintings that we'll be ashamed of. The Palestinian issue is one of the key elements of our United Nations General Assembly today. Here, because of the multidimensional effects of the Covid epidemic, indeed, our world faces the deepest global economic recession since the Great Depression; the biggest loss of income since 1870; we will face a very important post-Civid painting. So not only do we need to get rid of the plague, but we need to plan ahead what to do in the period after the outbreak, and we need to decide which countries to prioritize. Thus, over 115 million people are in danger of being driven into extreme poverty and hunger. Here, for example, one of the most important issues is hygiene. There's trouble in our country we haven't seen. In the fight against Covid, we say: "We have to wash our hands, we have to observe the hygiene conditions. " 4.2 billion people in the world have no water, let alone no drinking water, so we have to think about water. Digital may have allowed us to have a lot of meetings in this environment, but when we call it digital, we need to remember that 800 million people in the world don't have electricity; the one without electricity may not have digital access. There are 40 million people in America who have no Internet connection, think in Africa, and we can't talk about education if we can't really fix it, we can't talk about fighting the Covid epidemic, and we can't talk about protecting the current status in this world. So we try to be prepared for the second problem, the third problem, the 4th problem, by having separate meetings about all of this in post-pandemic terms. I mentioned that among the paintings we're trying to draw upstairs, one of the most important things is that there are less developed countries, one of which is her role in social life. We've established consultation boards that will work directly with me on both of them. Among the slow functioning mechanisms of the United Nations system, these two consulting groups, which are my responsibility, are doing very important work, drawing conclusions and sharing them with member states, which were agreed to continue during the coming term of the General Assembly Presidents. We're dealing with a very troubling picture of the vaccine. The world was caught unprepared for this, although a very important step was taken, in fact, 20 percent of the world's population now has 70 per cent of the vaccine, while the remaining population may not have had a vaccine at all. That's why we have to keep talking about this vaccine. No matter what other countries after me do after the countries think only of themselves and secure themselves, it is unacceptable for them to enter into their psychology. We keep this on the agenda of the United Nations all the time, and we send strong messages for the fair distribution of this vaccine to the world, and for the distribution of its rights to the world. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as a member of parliament and the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission for years at this time, I am the best example, the best person to know how important the national parliaments and MPs can play a role in international relations. I've often expressed this issue in the United Nations during my term as Chairman of the General Assembly. It is important for parliaments to reflect global goals on the daily lives of citizens in every country from sustainable development to environment, from health to youth, children, women. So today, in addition to being one of you, I would like to express my gratitude for your support and contributions to the United Nations work, multilateralism and parliamentary diplomacy as a United Nations General Assembly. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] With these thoughts and feelings, I offer you and yours personally my deepest respect to the entire Turkish nation. [[Applause]] Hopefully, on September 15th, after the address of my mission to the United Nations, in the first few days, I'd like to share with you the joy and happiness I'll be able to enjoy again. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit01spe0006par0042	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. Members of parliament, Mr. Volcano Bozır and the delegation with him are leaving the General Assembly, accompanied by Mr. Mustafa Sentop, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Applause]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0006par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement belongs to Army MP Metin Gündoğdu, who wants to mention the 100th anniversary of the province of the army. Here you go, Mr. Gündüz.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0007par0006	Mr. President, I have taken a vow outside the agenda of the 100th year of the province of the Army. I salute the General Assembly. Before I speak, it is an assassination of a democracy, inspired by its old habits in the middle of the night by 104 single admirals to issue a statement. For whatever reason, I condemn this initiative as a congressman. The mentality that uses the government's rank on his shoulder to read a statement to the nation's power cannot be a member of the Turkish nation's honorable army. I also find it ironic that the admirals who signed the declaration were members of opposition parties. This initiative is an attempt to question the will of the nation; it is a threat to national will. We never salute the tanks that turn their barrels on their people, nor do we salute those who read the declaration. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Precious lawmakers were the Army's exclusive province, in the name of Fatsa and Ünye accidents, in accordance with Law 69, published on April 4, 1921, a hundred years ago. The army's accident became central province with the declaration. In 1921, the Army was the first-class district centre with an accident centre in the province of Tripoli, a six-end village, a village of 312, and a population of more than 180,000. On November 30, 1920, seven months after the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the ruling on the 6th Amendment of Assembly Agenda 106 was brought up and approved. Dear lawmakers, the province of the Army is a province that has been marked by its local journalism. The first local newspaper was released in 1919. In 1927, the Beautiful Army Journal, which was released from the village of Bilal, was named after the first village newspaper in our country. The journalist Bilal was also dated by his friend in 1929 by the printing press they made from wood and cot irons. He published the first newspaper with a wooden printing press. The wooden printing press was donated to the Press Museum in 1950. Congressmans, I would like to remind you in a few sentences where the Army of 1920 arrived in 2021: The Army, which was not a formal high school until 1949, became a province today with dozens of high schools and a whole university. He's got a decent road, a concrete bridge, double roads, modern freeways, dozens of tunnels, and viaducts from an isolated town that doesn't even have a concrete bridge. Until the 1970s, the Army produced its electricity with a few diesel generators, while today, from our Topcham Dam, it became a big city, providing both energy and drinking water. Up until yesterday, the winters could not breathe in the dry and dirty air, trying to warm themselves with nutshells, coal, wood, while the gas stoves were boiling pots in the tube, while the environmentally friendly was now at ease with the cleaning and comfort of natural gas. In 1928, the army, where the beautiful Army Tayyaresi landed on the plains of Ömer Aga, became a city where planes landed every day with Turkey's first marine airport. Today, I want to thank you on behalf of my fellow citizens of the Army, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who passed the age and gave us the services we could not even imagine and could not count. Congressmans, with his theatre, with his sport, with his culture, with his honey, with his kiwi, with his nuts, with his fish, you can see many more changes and improvements in our military town today. Çambaşı Kayak Center, Aybastı Yaylası, Akkuş Argan Yaylaı and Mesudiye Keyfalan Yayla, Gölköy Ulugöl, Yoroz Kent Forest, Boztepesi, Yasonlu, dock, Fidangü, Fatsa (,) and Fatsa (,) are a great city army in 19 districts. With his song that he poured up his stream, the pearl of the Black Sea, our city of the Army is waiting to welcome you with its precious ten miles of uninterrupted shorewalking. On this occasion, the 100th year of the province of the Army celebrates with the deepest of heart, wishing for many centuries to come. I honor and honor all those who have worked for the province of the army. To defeat the enemy forces that invaded Anatolia, I give thanks and thanks to all our elders, who were veterans and martyrs for the sake of this land, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pasha and his comrades. May their place be in heaven and their souls rest in peace. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0008par0019	The second off-the-book statement belongs to Army MP Mustafa Adıllü, who wants to talk about the environmental issues of the Black Sea region. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0009par0022	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I congratulate you on the 100th year of the province of the Army. I also wish for immediate healing to our Army Mayor Hilmi Guler, who we now know is being treated in Istanbul. Today, we're going to parade you through the unique geography of our military province. There are three rivers: the Melet River, the Bolaman River, and the Cevizlidere River. First we're in the basin of the Melet River. There's a Council Castle here two thousand and three hundred years ago, standing at the top of an archeological site at a height of 570 meters. Now, I want to show you this: look, it's standing on this rock, there's an archaeological site here, the ancient city of the board. Two thousand, three hundred years old, and down here, 300 steps down to the Melet River, which runs through its bottom. What do you think should be done here? Now, I'm going to open this up, so the last thing to do here is probably that quarry. There's no precedent anywhere else in the world. They carve the gold of such an ancient city with a quarry. Here, necropolis and rock graves have been destroyed. This city, the city of King Mitridat, has fought the Roman civilization for many years, and has finally been betrayed by his son -- the name of his last war is betrayal -- and others have betrayed it. Now, this seems to be the continuation of that day's war of betrayal. Now, this quarry here is not the only betrayal. There's another betrayal. I'd like to point out that there's a scale in this quarry. There's a blue water tanker in front of the truck weighed in the back. This blue water tanker is a regular here, this water tanker never leaves here, my dear friends, while the truck in the back is weighed, this water tanker is always here to increase its weight. I mean, I don't think King Mitridat would have thought of such a pinwheel. From here, the stones sold from this quarry to the capital are shown at 1.5 times the price of higher tonage and given in smaller tonages, and unfortunately, the Metropolitan is aware of it, but is silent. So this shows that this quarry does not just carve the bottom of history, it also carves the bottom of the Military Metropolitan Municipality. Now, I'd like to come from the Melet basin to the Bolaman basin. There's been a gold mine here for years since 2013. From the beginning, I would like to say that we are not against mining, we are not against the proper places and the proper techniques of national mining, but we are against mining, which is not done in the field of human life, which is not in accordance with the technique of life, which harms nature. My dear friends, you're misleading the nation. Look, Mr. Erdogan expressed the annual amount of gold produced in Turkey by cyanide and gold businesses on January 12, 2021, and the equivalent of $2.4 billion. Now, when you turn it into Turkish money and a gram, it comes to $470 a gram of gold, so it's like the international gold cartels are giving all the gold they've earned to Turkey. So, what's the truth? The truth is, it's only $50 million. This is less than $2 million from the gold mine in Fatsa, which he said the gold mine gave to Turkey, because he mentioned $9.7 million in five years, under $2 million a year. But in the same geography, Fatsa and Ünye, they only produce $300 million worth of nuts. So when we have 150 times the amount we can get from agricultural products, we let a lot less work be done there. Thus, these expressions are only used to deceive the public, to pave the way for gold enterprises with cyanide. What is the truth, and what is the truth of the gold business in Fatsa? Look, the company started operating in 2013, committed to ending this activity in 2016 and rehabilitating it in 2018 and shutting it down completely. It's 2021, three years past this commitment, folks, and now the report on the CED in 2013 is valid.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0010par0031	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0009par0032	According to this CED report, the capacity appears to be 3 million 477,000 tons. In November 2018, he applied not to expand this capacity but to expand the lyclic area. He's clearly here saying that I need to buy a new CED, and I'm not increasing the capacity. In 2019, we learn that it filled 3 million 477,000 tons of ore capacity and applied for a new CED. So what do we mean? Although there is no CED here, the gold mine in Fatsa is now an illegal business. This is an illegal business, but it's allowed, and the Forest Management Department is doing a forest cut in the area here, where there's no CED, and they're still doing it, even though we've repeatedly warned them. My dear friends, there is no more time now, and I will speak of Cevezdere next time. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0011par0036	The third non-responsored statement belongs to İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem (Islamic Party) who wants to talk about food consumption and prevention of food waste. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0012par0039	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge to prevent food consumption and food waste. I salute our beloved Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly, watching us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, about 800 million people around the world are affected by hunger, while 1.2 billion people are suffering from dehydration. When we analyze the future, the possible scenarios predict that food and water wars will remain inadequate for available resources. Like the world, one of the biggest problems of our country is a waste of food. Wasted water is actually our future, not food and energy. I'm sure that every member of parliament sitting here, my friend's greatest sensitivity is the sad look of innocent children in what we call the Third World countries that are struggling with hunger. It's the look of those kids with their teeth that open that bottle of soda for the first time with help. However, 1.3 billion tonnes of food produced around the world are wasted every year. It is possible to feed people who are underfed by just one third of these wasted foods and to make them smile. Dear lawmakers, food loss and waste are among the top global challenges, along with hunger and poor diet. Come, let us examine the waste map of our country: 18 million tonnes of fruit and vegetables are thrown away, according to 2018 data by Turkey's Statistical Agency, and 1.7 billion bread is thrown away every year. These data are increasing day by day, and unfortunately, it's getting worse. 42% of food waste is done in households, and it is possible to conclude that we should start from home to prevent food waste. We eat fast and live fast, and now there's no time to buy fruits and vegetables from the grocery store, meat from the butcher, bread from the oven. We do mass shopping from supermarkets and online where all the needs can be found together, so we think we can get the most quality product at the cheapest, but as a result of the mass purchases, all of the items that were bought that week were left behind in the refrigerators, a significant portion of the purchases are going to the trash, and consumers are doing more damage. Our labor, our money, and therefore our national wealth are being squandered in wasted foods. Of course, not just waste of food, but waste of energy and water has become one of the main problems of the world, as is our country. I'd like to give you a striking example of waste: 6.8 percent of smartphone owners change their smartphone every year, 16.9 percent every two years, 28.1 percent every three years. A little more than half of individuals, 51.8, have changed cell phones within three years. This rate is very high, and when you do a need and consumption analysis, it turns out that consumption is highly arbitrary, that there is no need-based consumption. So what should be done? In general, when problems are examined, it is common to expect them to be eliminated by the state's hands. But both our fingers point to what we're dealing with, and all three of our fingers point to us. In fact, we should not only expect our government to solve problems but also put our hands on them. So what we can do in individual dimensions is a lot, but if we want to give a few dramatic examples, I would like to stress in particular: we order more food online than we can on the Internet during the battle with Coronavirus, from the grocery store, from the market, from the market, from the market, from the present day that shopping is reduced. We need to make it a habit to get as much food as we can. In homes, the necessary measures for energy savings must be taken, which also saves 50 per cent. The most striking example for waste of water is the water from the tap that we left open for a minute while brushing our teeth. We all need to know that a person's brushing his teeth for a minute, two times a day, without turning off his tap water, causes 8 tons of dehydration a year. Again, when each of us takes a shower and we shorten the time by a minute, we save 18 tons of water annually. Lighting the kitchen by daylight saves 15 percent energy. These examples can be increased, but I'd like to give you a final example: businesses say that an office employee dumps an average of 81 kilograms of paper a year.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0013par0048	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0012par0049	Paper use should be recycled. But when a ton of used newspaper paper is recovered, it prevents the cutting of eight pine trees. Dear lawmakers, the reason for the waste is that it is not known how to use rational and efficient resources to satisfy needs and desires, how to use them, how to increase their quality and quantity. Therefore, consumption and consumer behavior must be developed in a positive and positive way. I would like to end my words by wishing that both our children and our grandchildren and our descendants, the founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, should remain in our country. (Turks!) Take Turkish goods, use Turkish goods; keep Turkish money in Turkish soil. We must increase awareness in the days when we enter the spiritual climate of Ramadan, and first start with our own household to prevent waste. I salute each and every one of you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0014par0054	Congressmans, I will now promise the first 20 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0015par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. The original Ozculars were a working woman who worked as a jeweler in İzmir, who was not in Kurdistan, who had been dealing with a rheumatistic disease for years. He died on April 2nd, waiting in line for 25 days to be hospitalized. I have been waiting for him to be hospitalized for almost ten days, and there is no bed, but let's do your convention, what's the point of my pain and suffering anyway? Asli wrote, and left us in plain sight. It is not the illness that is responsible for the death of the original; it is the court regime that has made pandemic an opportunity for capital; it is your capitalist system that is commercializing health. We bow before his memory.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0014par0058	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0016par0059	Mr. President, inflation cannot be stopped in Turkey. According to data released by the Turkish Statistical Agency, the consumer price index increased by 1.08 per cent in March to 16.19 per cent year-on-year, compared to a month ago. They continue to make our people poor and condemn them to hunger and misery, the power that leads to the growth of the beast of inflation, trying to deflect the truth by playing perception. The economic crisis extinguishes the furnaces, sets fire to the hearts. Inflation, hunger, poverty, unemployment, poverty and persecution. Those who take advantage of this persecution enjoy the palaces, but this cannot go on, it must not go on. Just yesterday, a young brother who had a hard time making a living in Adana took his life. We call on power to put out this fire; let go of perception, solve hunger, poverty, and despair, which is the country's real agenda. If you're not doing it, we're going to do it with our projects, change this order, and we're going to change it. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0014par0061	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0017par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, 43 people were hired by the Eti Mineral Bigadic Borboring Directorate with oral examinations on the permanent labour staff. The examination and employment conditions were not transparent and objectively held, while one person's oral interview lasted two minutes and the other lasted 20 minutes. In addition, the names and scores of the people hired were hidden for eight months. Even those from nearby villages who were called victims of the tar and victims were not hired to open new minefields by the Eti Mine. Most of the recruits are children and relatives of the ruling party. Buying workers from other counties while there are many unemployed in our town is a major injustice to Bigadic, which is an injustice to the AK PARTI. The people of Bigadic demand that this injustice be dealt with immediately, and that the hiring be restored to transparency and integrity. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0018par0065	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0019par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. The presidential government system, based on one man's pleasure management, has not solved the problems of tens of millions of unemployed, tens of millions of farmers, investors, farmers, pensioners, college graduates; moreover, we are experiencing serious backgrounds in almost every area, including law, justice, education, democracy, freedom of the press, basic rights and freedoms, living conditions are becoming more difficult every day. According to TÜİK, consumer inflation has been the highest in the last 20 months and producer inflation has been the highest in the last two years. According to the Inflation Research Group's account, the last seven months of real inflation have exceeded 28 per cent. As this painting shows, the government system of the presidency means poverty and unemployment, high interest means high inflation, the loss of Turkish lira means high foreign currency dry; the government system of the presidency means personal, arbitrary decisions mean instability, insecurity. Investment, trust and job loss are high...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0018par0069	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0020par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our Republic, I chose Gazi Osman Pasha as a guide to myself, and I will follow his path for the rest of my life. The Turkish nation has found itself again in Plevne. In our struggle in the nation's path, our symbol will always be the national spirit born in Plevne. I'm proud to be the heir to Gazi Osman Paşa's national position, like any Tokatlı, his grandson. Again, once again, I ask God's mercy to the great captain, and I salute the Coven of Veterans.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0018par0072	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0021par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Atilla Altuntaş, 45, director of Istanbul's Chainlikuyu ISOV Professional and Technical Anadolu High School, lost her life in the past few weeks, and today her Turkish teacher Caner Erdogan, 40, from Nevşehir. While many teachers are clawing with Covid's disease, while they're in intensive care, we have a large number of new teachers. This is a sign that the school's face-to-face education should no longer be interrupted, so let's not lose any more lives. A 33-year-old cafe-bar employee killed himself because Ramadan Ünal didn't get along. Turkey's real problem is pandemia, economic support, social support that is not enough for pandemics. These social benefits must be given to the victim of the tradesman immediately. Once again, I honor and cherish the murders of our journalists who were killed on the Day of the Journalists.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0022par0077	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0023par0078	Mr. President, the founder of our April 4th National Movement Party is the anniversary of the death of Alparslan Türkesh. Alparslan Türkesh is an archipelago who has devoted his life to the trial of Turkish nationalism. As a Turkish nationalist in 1944, he was thrown into coffins for saying the wrongs of the current administration. Today, millions of Turkish nationalists don't always die in one mouth. With all due respect and gratitude, may his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. April 5, 1925 was the date when the Turkish National Assembly awarded the Instance Medal to our advent of the invading French soldier from Maras, who fired him on February 12, 1920. When asked to give names to the heroes who wrote the epics to give them the Istliklal Medal, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, Maras, for the participation of the entire Marasian in the province's struggle...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0022par0081	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0024par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to address the President, the ministers, and the AK PARTY MPs. The issue of treasured land continues in Hatay. Look, for decades, our citizens who have built their homes on treasure land are victims, they can't pay their tuition anymore. All Turkey has only the embargo on Hatay. Why, why friends? If the treasure is the property of the nation, why don't you give the people their property? That's enough! End this injustice, end this embargo. Truly, Allah is Witness, and if you do not desist, you will surely be guilty. I demand this on behalf of the people of Hatay. Solve the treasure land problem, the citizen can no longer pay his tuition. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0025par0085	Mr. Yilmakaya...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0026par0086	Mr. President, a desperate and pessimistic Turkey where the economy is bad, closed-down tradesmen are in debt, unemployment rates are going up every day, many companies are going down, unemployed young people are looking to the future with anxiety, retired citizens can't get along. With the economic crisis in our country, we've become a country where the psychology of a citizen who's been through a difficult time has been corrupted, where there have been recent mass suicides. Many fathers who can't support their family try to commit suicide with all the family members so that their daughter, son, and wife don't be left behind, they don't struggle with debts and actions, they don't fail. We didn't forget our families who committed mass suicide with cyanide, committed suicide, divorced, and disappeared. Unfortunately, it's a low-rent scheme of human life. As a medical MP, I am deeply concerned about the increased suicides in our province of Gaziantep and Turkey. We expect the government to listen to the citizen's righteous rebellion to solve problems with more realistic economic policies, or let them, after the election, we say we fix them. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0025par0088	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0027par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. The AK PARTI government, which is number one in change in perception, creating artificial agendas, raising supporters, is concerned about the country's hunger, poverty, unemployment and epidemic, while the Channel is at its peak. We know very well whose mill they're carrying water to. And you should know very well that those who sell their kidney for a bowl of soup, who wait for hours on cheap bread lines, who bring home fruits, vegetables from garbage, market scraps, who are left to die because they can't find a hospital bed, mothers who can't buy milk and food for their baby, children who are deprived of education because they don't have a tablet or computer, are your shame. This shame of yours will hit you in the chest.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0025par0091	Mr. Sower...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0028par0092	On 5 April 2021, with the arrival of our National Education Minister, Mr. Ziya Selçuk, our Sultan city, we opened 17 education investments and 1 fairy house, which cost 130 million TL. Our Sivas vocational and Technical Anadolu High School, which includes 24 classrooms, 5 workshop buildings, 200 pensions, is very important at the point of ensuring a school-industrial cooperation, with its presence within the organised industrial zone. The Sivas Story House, a unique project that was inaugurated, is designed in accordance with the concept of Anatolian fairytales with its historical fabric, and is designed to serve in two fairy rooms, one drama activity area, and all ages, and has library and reading spaces for studies such as book tests and writing workshops. From the public education centre to the teacher's home, from the gym to the robotic coding workshops, from kindergarten to vocational workshops, to the province of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who has brought these $130m investments to a different level of excitement throughout our 16 counties.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0025par0094	Mr. Arkaz...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0029par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Our late Prime Minister is an exemplary litigator who dedicated his life to his country, his nation, and his state for 80 years. The Turkish nationalism case has risen with great sacrifice under the leadership of our late Prime Minister; its unbreakable legacy has come to this day with the Nationalist Movement Party. His country and his ideas have always been a light to us. On the anniversary of the death of Turkish Islamists, the country-nationalist movement, and the leader of the entire Turkish world, our Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh, I remember him with respect and mercy; his soul rests in peace. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0030par0099	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0031par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the first week of April, the farmers are working in their fields, and all the farmers are complaining about the price of fertilizer right now. Are you aware of the price of fertilizer in power? It's not much, it's now $2,520 in urethra four months ago, now $3,650 in fertilizer, and four months ago, ammonium sulfate is now $2,160. According to you, according to TİK data, four months of inflation is five percent, but the fertilizers have increased by 50 to 60 percent. The world is breaking out of pandemics, food prices are rising, you don't support the farmer, you don't give the fertilizers cheaply. At this rate, many farmers will not be able to use the upper fertilizer because of lack of money and the high price of fertilizer. The solution is that half the price of fertilizer, as it was in the previous years, will be met by the government, or production will fall, production will fall.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0030par0102	Mr. Ozsoy...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0032par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we have recently seen you add another one to the puffy record of the People's Democratic Party (CHP) municipality of Maltepe. The CHP's mayor was alleged to have had a drunken accident and fled the scene. It is also alleged that he was offered money to silence and cover up the incident and was threatened in a cover-up. I'd like to express from here that I condemn this helpless mentality that has become a problem for our country and our nation. We're going to follow how the CHP administration, who claims to be against violence at every turn but remains silent about the harassment and rapes of their parties, will take a stand against this mayor, who is told to hit and escape a female driver in the middle of the night as well as drunk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Celebrity...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0033par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Anesthesiologists with the equipment and expertise to operate in post-educated O.R., intensive care units and emergency rooms have not been appointed to their technicians for years. Anesthesiologists, whose numbers are about 80,000, received high marks on the KPSS test, but were victimised by the lack of public staff. Techniques who can't get jobs in the state or in the private sector have to work under heavy working conditions for low wages. In this pandemic process, where we need more health workers, in order to serve our citizens with more quality and speed, thousands of anesthesiologists should be immediately appointed by our young people. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0034par0111	Mr. Kenanoglu...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0035par0112	Mr. President, it has been a hundred and twelve years since Hasan Fehmi Bey, who was shot and killed on 6 April 1909 because of his criticism of the administration of Ittihat and Terakki in his newspaper Freeli, was killed on the Galata Bridge. Hundreds of journalists have been killed in Turkey since then. I honor and praise all journalists who lost their lives in the day of the killing of Musa Anter, Uğur Mumcu, Ferhat Tepe, Metin Gökpe, Taner Baratallı and Hrant Dinks, working night and day, keeping democracy in line, working, working, working, working, being neutral and reliable, and taking a stand for democracy.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0034par0114	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0036par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Citizens are victims of OGS and HGS systems on bridges, tunnels and highways guaranteed passage by the EC PARTI government. In cases such as system failure, no license plate reading, lack of balance, drivers charged with illegal transit are being borrowed. Businessmen don't realize their debt because they don't make the announcement in a healthy way. After that, the pursuit of execution begins, the debt folds and folds. Even those who pay the fine later face a different payment under a different name. It's like they're moving for more pay. There's no limit to the complaints. I would like to address the Minister of Transport who considers the citizen a client: Get the OGS and HGS complaints on your agenda; investigate, see what comes out of it. We won't let this go, don't victimize the citizen.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0037par0118	Mr. Özkan... Your Excessive...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0038par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly condemn this coup statement, which they issued in the middle of the night, which aims at the national will and its legitimate representative, as an excuse for the debates of 104 admirals from the Navy, Canal Istanbul and Montrö. The contents of the midnight announcement, published in an environment where the July 15 coup and occupation attempt still remains warm, are the product of the custody head, which we know clearly, both language and soul. It is not the right of anyone to try to stir Turkey by publishing a statement in the middle of the night while the government of the Republic of Turkey, led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is in charge. Let the evil centers know that the old Turkey is no more. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, says that there is a great and powerful Turkey, which was built on July 15th by our beloved nation, by destroying all the responsibilities of custody. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0039par0124	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0040par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Sadly, this year the potato remained in storage and began to rot; over 300,000 tons of potatoes were left to rot. Neither the ministry nor the government has come up with a solution. The land crop office could've solved the problem by taking the potato. Unfortunately, it didn't go that way. It's unthinkable that even the most consumed potato after grain can be disproved. The potato that cost a dollar wasn't sold for 25 cents. Now the potato is in its final phase. Some of them can be saved by emergency response. Other than that, the radish potato will be out in 15 days. The damage the farmers face from the potatoes must be met with absolute certainty. That's what we're calling the authorities on. The land crop office has helped the farmer by buying potatoes in the past. This term has not been done, at least the farmer's damage must be paid.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0039par0127	Mr. Azanal...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0041par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. In the world and in our country, growing rapidly every day, autism represents an innate developmental difference from the structure and functioning of the brain and nervous system. Autism-based individuals must receive quality health care in an early period, including medical diagnosis, and each level must receive a life-long and qualified special education service, starting with early childhood. We have to make them feel special every moment of life because they're snowflakes that don't look like each other. I hereby congratulate our autistic citizens and our families on World Autism Awareness Day, we are aware of the autism, we are united in the solution. He says, "I salute the General Assembly."
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0042par0131	Mr. Kemalbay...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0043par0132	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to point out that on the 131st day of hunger strikes in prisons against imprisonment, executions and rights extortions, I got a fax from Antalya Kepez type E Prison. Murat Demirci says that in the outbreak of coronavirus, we prisoners, especially those in the closed prison, have been forgotten. I just want to give you an example from the C-9 room at the Antalya Type E Prison where I'm standing. There's 59 of us, 30 bunks, three-bed bunks copied; bathroom, bathroom, mess hall. People are laying mouth-to-mouth and we're quarantined. There are 59 of us in one room. How do we avoid the plague? We ask that you, our esteemed lawmakers, raise an agenda in the House and ask for a plea pardon, a reduced sentence for those in a closed prison, and...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0044par0136	Now, Mr. Group, I'm going to meet the VP's demands. On behalf of the Good Party Group, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0045par0139	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers realized the 24th anniversary of the death of Basbug Alparslan Türkesh, a great man of trial and opinion who branded Turkish politics two days ago. For the sake of the Turan case of Turk, I remember once again our late Basbug, who fought hard and paid heavy prices when his place came to pass, with mercy and gratitude; his place is heaven, his soul. Yesterday was Lawyer's Day. I'm celebrating the Lawyers' Day of all the lawyers who believe in the law, believe in justice, defend the rights and freedoms of individuals, protect the rights and the rule of law that we need the most these days. I wish to achieve better days of justice, not of the strong, but of right. Thirty-one years have passed since China's massacre in the eastern Turkish town of Barın. In the massacre of the bar, I cherish the anniversary of our Eastern Turkic relatives who did not submit to the Chinese captivity. Remembering the massacres, we deliver this torch to our children, take care of our cause, and bring it to the attention: We will not forget, we will not forget, we will not forget, we will not remain silent, we will not ignore, despite their persecution. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers are required to follow a set of rules by diplomatic missions, foreign ambassadors, in every country with self-respecting powers. The rules are to show maximum respect for the political parties and leaders of their country.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0046par0144	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0045par0145	The Chinese Embassy in Ankara has violated this principle, which is a duty beyond a rule, in a reference to our President. This is an act that took courage from the difficult tolerance of power to explain to China. We condemn this outrage against the political institution. We expect the Foreign Ministry to condemn this threatening message used by the Chinese Embassy in Ankara. This is the Chinese Embassy's statement on East Turkistan regarding the Uygur Turks still being persecuted. That's a shame.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0046par0147	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0045par0148	The Chinese Embassy has done what they say is rude. We are not going to stop expressing this mesalam that happened in every place in East Turkistan. However, Mr. Volcano Bozır, a member of the Justice and Development Party of the United Nations, has not said a word in his speech to the Uygur Turks, which should be among the main issues of the United Nations. We will not give up yesterday, today and tomorrow, defending the rights of our Muslim brothers and our Turkish consciousness, identified with the Turkish nation, which has a geography that extends to many parts of the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0047par0152	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0045par0153	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers have announced the numbers of inflation in March: The consumer Price Index has increased 1.8 per cent per month; it has increased 16.19 per cent year-on-year; the price of 287 articles found in the index has increased. Thus, the increase in the so-called inflation rate given to the officer, to the worker, to the pensioner has already melted over basic foods in March alone. Annual inflation, which last saw single digits in October 2019, has been watching in the double house ever since. Buying power is dropping day by day, every citizen we touch on the street suffers from economics, despair. The Turkish economy continues to drift further and worse on the government's course, irreparably. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0048par0157	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0045par0158	Finally, I want to talk about Kastamon. Kastamonu is a city 300 miles [114 km] from Karabuk, and 290 km from Samsun. The need for the railway has now become inevitable. Connecting Kastamon to the railway network in Karabuk and Samsun's provinces will bring down migration and young unemployment from Kastamonu, and will also save heavy-tonned trucks from further disrupting forest roads and roads. The SECA paper factory, founded in 1984, was privatized in 2003. At the moment, 75 personnel are working at the factory and the factory is in a state of emergency, and the self-producing and shipping business is negatively affected.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0048par0161	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0045par0162	The SECA paper factory will be taken out of the private sector and operated by the state, or there, after privatisation, and the increased production of the company that buys the factory will also allow young people in the district to have jobs and to add to the county. Sadly, after the condition of Kastamon Covid-19, which had previously been the center of the Western Black Sea, which had not been a problem with health personnel, the patients are now being referred to other cities. Hence, our citizens in Kastamon (Kastamon) are seriously victimized. We bring these matters to the attention of the government. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0049par0166	We thank you. Mr. Erkan Akçay, deputy chairman of the National Movement Party Group, is now taking the stand. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0050par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, April 4, 2021 is the 24th anniversary of the death of the party's founding President, Basbug Alparslan Türkesh. Our Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkesh, has systematically developed the idea of Turkish nationalism into political action, moved nationalism from idea field to political scene, turned nationalism into a program with the Nationalist Movement Party. He led millions of young people to be raised by a state-loving statesman, who gave us a great legacy, such as Turkish nationalism, nationalism and the Nationalist Movement Party. He became a leader not only for Turkey, but also for the entire Turkish world, and he made it his intention to live honorably with the state of the Turkish nation, with the state of Turkey, to the end of the apocalypse. At a young age, our country's development in every field began its heart and mind shift to gain power, offering nine Light Doctrini and a thinking system and a model of development to our nation. Alparslan Turkesh, who discussed nationalism with democracy on the national axis of will, is a man of ideas and movement. The worst democracy is better than the best revolution. Turkesh, who said, "The worst democracy is the flesh and bone of courage, freedom, self-restraint, strength, Turkish pride and consciousness, Islam's morality and virtue." The memory of our late High Priest is in our minds and hearts with the same freshness.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0051par0173	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0050par0174	His struggle continues with the same excitement, his ideas shed light on our future today as they did yesterday. With these thoughts and feelings, I remember Basbug Alparslan Türkesh, and all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. Mr. President, a statement was issued by 104 retired admirals on April 4, 2021, around 2:00 a.m. This statement, written in the form of a priest, is an illegal, ulterior motive, an act of communism, a desire for custody, a wish for Halaskar Zabitan, which serves, in its own way, chaos and chaos. In this statement, the spirit of custody and junta, which we buried in the dark pages of history, was tried to resurrect the finger in a threatening language to the chosen will of our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0052par0178	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0050par0179	The impact scenarios of external and internal focal points that are familiar with the recent and distant past are being re-exploded in different parts of the world. On January 30, 2020, the pensioners' declaration, which was launched by former ambassadors, was repeated on April 1, 2021, and was announced on April 4, 2021. These suspicious and deliberate notifications are clearly organized and synchronized from a center. This statement targets national will at a time when, under the leadership of the Presidential Alliance, we began to make up for the years lost under the active and problem-resolving administration of the presidential government system. This statement is an attempt to condemn Turkey's success in the fight against terrorism, its achievements in foreign policy, its position in the world and country's agenda to the agenda of imperial focus.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0052par0181	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0050par0182	Those who signed the declaration assassinated the reputation of our heroic army and the Navy, as if they were eager to revive the spirit of Patrona Halil. Those who signed this declaration aimed at national-state integration were not ashamed of the descendants of Barbaros, who served in the Mediterranean for exactly six months; one hundred and eighty-two days, four, three hundred and sixty-eight hours, 37,081 kilometers, without interruption in any port visits? It's a betrayal to try to put our heroic army, which has fought successfully on many fronts, to put it to trial by demoralizing it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0052par0185	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0050par0186	Today, we see those who underestimated July 15th trying to make it look like they're underestimating this statement. Organised and plannedly, it is extremely wrong to view this declaration as a legitimate demand for democracy and freedom of expression as the apostle of democracy for those who sign the declaration. In Article 12 of our Constitution, fundamental rights and freedoms have been guaranteed in Article 25, freedom of thought and conviction, the right to elect, election, and political activities in Article 67. For every Turkish citizen, the political path is open, he can form a party or act as a member of one of the existing parties or conduct a civil society activity. The way to express an opinion is not to sign a statement in the middle of the night, but to exercise its rights in the way the Constitution stipulates.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0053par0190	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0050par0191	However, some retired admirals who signed the declaration express their views openly and freely on various platforms -- televisions, newspapers, Internet media. I will sign under this statement. Those who say, "For more than a hundred and fifty years of democracy and political life, "all attempts of coup and custody have targeted politics, democratic order, the will of the nation." We have an old proverb, like the ancient calf butcher's knife. It is self-denial, inconsistencies, ignorance that some politicians can't stand in the face of this declaration, relentless, but without clarity. Politicians should stop taking this matter lightly with thin declarations and keep it pure in the presence of democracy and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0053par0193	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0050par0194	They want to cloud our nation's minds by producing black propaganda and dirty perceptions over the Montrö Treaty of the Bosphorus. The 1936 Montrö Convention on the Straits is a complementary ring of the Lausanne Agreement, an integral part. Montrö is our red line. The Black Sea is a guarantee of peace and stability. The coup d'états that revenant their dark subconscious in the middle of the night, and those who hold them in a bowl should know that the page of coups has been closed in Turkey, and let it not be forgotten that the state and nation never sleeps and retires. On this occasion, on April 4, 1953, I remember with mercy and gratitude our 81 heroic marines and all our martyrs who died in the crash of our Dumlupınar submarine. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0054par0198	We thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Hakkı Saruhan Oluç will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0055par0201	Thank you. Mr. President, it was yesterday (April 5th) that day of the World Lawyers. First of all, we honor and thank all the lawyers who were murdered while doing their job, especially the Tahir Elçi. We send greetings to the lawyers who were arrested and convicted for doing their job in prison, and I'm glad they're here. Being a lawyer in Turkey is also a struggle against severe pressures, unlawfulness. Being a lawyer in Turkey means facing major irregularities when you have to defend universal principles of law, and our lawyers, on the one hand, are also facing heavy pressures in fighting, defending universal principles of law and justice and trying to protect their professional honor. Once again, I celebrate the World Lawyer's Day of Lawyers of all lawyers, and I stress in particular that we are with them in this struggle. A person who teaches mathematics at a high school in Mardin province of Mardin province, can I be transferred from his social media account now? God, I can't stand people speaking Kurdish anymore. He shared. I mean, sure, we're thinking about what to say. So the teacher educates the children, tells the children that I have no patience for the Kurdish language of the children, different cultures in Turkey, different native languages, and one teacher who needs to teach them to endure each other, that everyone should be equal. Of course, it's strange that such a person should become an educator. How can such a person raise a child?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0056par0207	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0055par0208	Clearly, it's a hate crime against the existence of a human being, culture, identity, native language. Now, that's part of it. He says that without knowledge from the social media account of a teacher who is working in our district, there have been statements that do not belong to him. He says that the teacher is wrong and an investigation into this will be carried out, a hate crime. He is trying to justify it. Of course, when the responses come, the Nusaybin subsidiary also eliminates that sharing and explanation to erase its partnership with this crime, but we want to say: Look, there are different cultures, different identities and major languages in this country, we all know that, and all of these are equal, all of them are an important wealth. Everyone should be able to speak his native language freely, never underestimate any native language -- no matter what mother tongue -- not to be tolerated, not to be forbidden.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0056par0210	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0055par0211	This is an extremely important issue, and politics needs to be mature and responsible, and such statements need to be very open to such hate speech. We condemn this most severely and remind you once again that these attacks against the Kurdish mother tongue should not be made by educational workers. Now, between January 1st and March 26th 2021, another 1,928,390 new files were added to the offices of bankruptcy, so the number of files found in the executive offices increased by more than 1,500,000 years ago to 22 million. What does that mean? It means that the citizens' debt to banks and debt to each other is increasing. The debt of citizens who have reached $850 billion, the citizen is in debt, unable to pay his debts.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0056par0214	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0055par0215	The government has made it this way with the wrong economic policies, but with the wrong economic policies in the pandemic, it raises debtors, a debtor, a country, a country of bankruptcy. We want to emphasize this once again, and those who are most affected by these wrong economic policies -- trades, small businesses, farmers, workers, workers, pensioners, pensioners -- are very seriously victims, and as of March 31st, this power lifted the grant for short labor. See, inflation data has been released again, TÜİK said: 1.8 per cent of the increase on a monthly basis, the Inflation Research Group, which includes experts and academics, said: not 1.8; 3.36 per month; so it's almost 3 times as many as 3.36.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0056par0218	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0055par0219	TÜİK says: "Inflation Inflation Research Group," 16.19 per cent said: "No, no, the inflation rate is 28 per cent from September 2020 to March 2020, in the face of the lying figures of the TÜKİK., the Inflation Research Group, which includes experts, academics, economists and economists, continues to explain the facts. Now, I'd like to make one last point: today is April 6th, the day of the murdered Journalists. Unfortunately, Turkey faces a government that continues to ban and detain and arrest free journalists, where journalism is still considered a crime. We continue to say that journalism is not a crime. We know that journalism, writing the facts, researching the facts in this country is extremely difficult, and yet there are many people in this country who are trying to write the truth and try to write the truth. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0057par0223	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0055par0224	Once again, we salute them with respect. But look, according to data released by the presidency's Communication Chairman, there have been 10,486 applications in the process of renovating press cards, although 1,371 journalists have applied for press cards, the number of press cards that have not been renewed has been cancelled in the past two years has been 1,238. Why is this important data? Why am I saying this today? Because this government is very determined not to let journalists do their job. Why are there so many press cards canceled? It's obvious. Why are applications left in drag? It's obvious. Because the government doesn't want to hire press workers who say they don't want to work, and the presidency's communications presidency stands before us as the institution that basically runs this business. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0057par0227	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0055par0228	Journalists are not members of the presidency's Communication Presidency and Fahrettin Altun (Fahrettin). Communication President must give up the love of creating favourable journalists programmed to protect the interests of power, to praise power, because free press workers, free press workers, will continue their own work, their struggles, and will continue to pursue facts, even without yellow press cards. Once again, we salute them with respect. The institutions of power are not the place to decide who is a journalist and who isn't. Press cards should be issued by independent institutions, including journalistic trade organisations. I'm going to stress that one more time. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0058par0231	We thank you. Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Altay. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute your grace and the High General Assembly, sir. Mr. President, yesterday was April 5th, and I congratulate you on our Lawyer's Day, the day of all the lawyers. It is not possible to have complete confidence in the judiciary in the days when the judiciary is corrupt, the trust in the judiciary is at its lowest, unless the defense is on the same plane as the prosecution. Nevertheless, despite all negative circumstances, we congratulate our beloved lawyers, who have been humiliated, replaced, sometimes treated as terrorists, and we want them to know that the Republican People's Party will serve on the same plane as the People's Party. Mr. President, Police Week starts this week. Since our 10 April Police Day will be on Saturday, I have already congratulated the heroic Turkish police force on the anniversary of the 176th anniversary of the week's start, while calling myself the Minister of Interior and the Grand General: I want to make it known that the Turkish police are not afraid to become martyrs, but I think I said that this is the 7th Home Minister of Interior since I said this; Abdulkadir Aksu - let the ears be ringing - when he was the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Supreme General Kurula were not afraid to become a martyr. This problem needs to be resolved.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0060par0239	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0240	As a matter of fact, I demand that Mr. Erdogan not keep his promise to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey two years ago, and that Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan keep his promise to the Turkish police -- not to the Turkish police, but to our teacher, our nurses, and our religious officials. I hereby congratulate you on our police's week and day. Mr. Ozoy, who just addressed the General Assembly, brought up a financially damaged traffic accident last week in Maltepe. Here's my suggestion: do not run, don't hide, don't hide, don't cover, maybe we should go back a little bit at this point.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0060par0243	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0244	So my suggestion to Mr. Ozsoy is, Mr. President, that there was a traffic accident on 11 May 1998 in Istanbul in Şişli, where the public knew very well that Sevim Tanurek died four days after the accident, so I suggest to our congressman who brought up a financially damaged traffic accident last week, and my proposal is: let's take a look at the traffic accident that caused Sevim Tanürek's death. Are you in? It's a shame. It's a shame. So I'd like to point out that I think it's odd to bring to the agenda that some of our mayors ran into a car with rumors and social media gossip, but the accident that killed Sevim Tanürek is very clear.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0060par0246	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0247	The president of the Forensic Medicine Office, which was responsible for reporting defects, was soon, for some reason, the CEO of Turkey's Maritime Enterprises Corporation. Gentlemen, we'll discuss this if you'd like, but my advice is not to go any further. Mr. President, Turkey has a lot of agendas. We don't find it right to pursue the artificial agenda as the Republican People's Party, but one thing that makes us happy is that when Recep Tayyip Erdogan was Prime Minister, write letters to generals and warn the political power. Now, I would like to point out that I consider it a positive development in democracy for the retired generals to interpret the press statement as an invitation to the Darbe. Mr. President, the main job of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is to worry about people's problems, to solve their problems.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0061par0251	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0252	For weeks, our MPs have been screaming that the farmer's tractor, the yak in the barn, is in foreclosure. Our MPs have been in the barn for weeks, the farmer's crops have remained in the barn, the farmer's crops are in the field, the farmer's farmers are miserable. The Republican People's Party MPs have been crying for weeks to rebuild the farm loan co-op. Now, there's a table in front of us; it's like a joke, it's like: loan interest is raised from 11 per cent to 18 per cent, the interest in configuration is increased from 5 to 12 per cent, the configuration interest is raised to 18 per cent, and 30 per cent of it is asked to be deposited in advance. I wonder if the political power thinks the Turkish farmer's brain is gone?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0061par0254	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0255	So it's better not to do it at all than to do such a thing in terms of farming. We also condemn and deny the understanding of creating a Turkish farmer in a loan shark's grip, which will make the farmer more difficult than the situation they've put him in. I speak to the Turkish farmer, the Turkish peasant here: in the rule of the Republican People's Party, in the rule of the National Alliance, we pledge honor and honor that we will erase all interest of the farmers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On the other hand, it was called tax peace, a restructuring in both terms of SGO bonuses and tax debt. We said well, we said well, we said well, but in February, we predicted that the pandemic would be finished, and we said that the first installments of the tax debt were made in February... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0062par0261	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0262	...the process began with payback, but the pandemic didn't end, the number of cases increased, the isolation and closure were more widespread through the state. In short, when taxpayers can't open their shop, the taxpayers are asked to be paid their taxes in February, March, April. It means that no one -- I mean, on paper, on paper, on paper -- can pay off a tradesman's interest in February and March. If your intention is sincere, then it's the start of these installments in July, at least if the small tradesman really thinks about restructuring the tax debt, the COBI owners, our first call -- the inclusion continues -- if not enough -- is to begin in July.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0062par0264	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0059par0265	February, the construction of the tradesman who couldn't pay his mortgage in March will be over, so peace will be over. Then why was it done? No tradesman entering the configuration will be able to pay for it, pay for it, pay for it, because they could not open their shop in February and March. I urge you to run it: the first installment of the tax-peace configuration is to be paid in July. It is necessary to make a revision in July. Otherwise, if it continues like this, it will be done to the Turkish tradesman, and it will be mocked at the mind and state of the nation. The Republican People's Party will permanently remove the interest rates of the tradesman, who was victimised during the Covid period -- just like farmer's interest.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0062par0267	Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, Deputy President of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Elitaş, good luck with your new assignment, sir. Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0063par0270	Thank you for your kindness, Mr. President. Mr. Alparslan Turkesh, the founder of the National Movement Party, is blessed in the 24th year of his death, and his place is in heaven. I'm celebrating the Day of Lawyers on April 5th. Just a moment ago, our friend, the vice president of the party group, brought up an issue. The People's Republic of China has shared a social media broadcast about the Ankara Ambassador, Mr. Coral Akşenir, and the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor. This is a form of conduct that violates diplomatic rules, completely disregards diplomatic courtesy; it's unacceptable. We're expressing that we don't approve of such sharing. The Turkish People's Republic of China's Ankara Ambassador will be called to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our responses to this matter will be voiced. (EC PARTY and PYD) We make it clear and clear that in Turkey, political parties do not fall to another country's great envoy when to speak, to what extent to speak, and to the right to appoint it. This is a violation of our democratic code of conduct, and I want to say that we strongly reject it. Dear friends, at the beginning of this week, we've had a very important incident. At 11:15 p.m., we were confronted with a threatening declaration by 104 admirals saying otherwise and pointing fingers about Montrö, which they shared on social media at 11:15 p.m. We're a country in the history of the Republic that's been photographed with coups. First, the coup on May 27, 1960 -- which today was a very important message on the General Assembly of Mr. Gardens -- about the formation of all the coups, the development of all the coups -- had nine officers prior to May 27th.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0064par0277	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0063par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. We see that those who neglect this, who fail to evaluate the results in time, face a junta in 1960. Again, on March 9, 1972, the coup attempt to legitimize the coup d'état, the coup d'état, and the overthrow of power, which occurred on March 12, 1980, two and a half years before 12 September 1980, by turning 4,500 teenagers into right-wingers and left-wingers, to legitimize the coup d'état of September 12th. On February 28th, when the tanks were being run, a rerun was performed because they couldn't shoot a newspaper or a media group, as if we're going to rewind the film lane and experience the impact on a political power, we know.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0064par0281	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0063par0282	2007, April 27th e-mail was released at the exact time of the signing declaration of 104 admirals. At 11:15 p.m., the Chief of Staff of the period said that if you don't do this with an e-magnance, you'll have to endure it. But for the first time in the history of the Republic, a government has shown everyone its place. He will serve as a state official, and he will carry out the commission of the national will. He said, "From that day on, everything has changed." The closure case, like December 17th-25th and Gezi, was the government of the EC PARTI and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who responded to the 27-April e-magnition, which revealed that the people were going out on the streets, as the beginning of the action.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0064par0284	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0063par0285	On July 15, 2016, those who attempted the traitorous coup took the stand of the government, representing the national will on April 27th, to shield the tanks from their chests and to make a heroic epic. Today, the work of 103 admirals is to change the day, to dilute the agenda, to cover up the issues of our history. Clearly, as Mr. Coral Akşener put it, it's not a foolishness, it's a disgrace, it's an incentive for a coup, it's an attempt. (EC PARTY Applause) The judgment on this will meet its requirements and will bring them to their knees. I salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with these thoughts.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0065par0288	Mr. President, I'd like your word.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0066par0289	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0065par0290	Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. Mustafa Elitas, the Vice President of the Justice and Development Party for the sensitivity of the Chinese Ambassador to this outrageous attitude. The ruling has clearly violated the last sentence of Article 41 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations on April 18, 1961, as a result of this text by the Ambassador to Ankara of the People's Republic of China. The statement is a public intervention in the internal affairs of our government. The Turkish state -- Mr. President just mentioned -- is preparing to respond by calling the ambassador, and we're pleased to see him. However, we expect this ambassador, who ventures to give the relevant message in accordance with the first joke of Article 9 of this mentioned contract, to immediately declare "persona non grata" - the unwanted man. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0067par0293	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0068par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. I have just found it appropriate to make a brief statement, Mr. President, as I understand that during the speech of our friend, Mr. Engin Altay, the Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, during the speech of our friend, Mr. Engin Altay, in 2004, the president of our party, our leader, Mr. State Garden, has written a letter to members of the state protocols.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0067par0297	Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0068par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, in 2004, it was a letter sent to 4,000 people, including the President, the Prime Minister, all MPs, media organs, representatives of the higher bureaucracy, who were signed by our president, Mr. State Garden, as president of the political party, and not just to the generals at the time, which was already shared with the media and the nation. It is a letter expressing the views of the National Movement Party on that day's conjunctive, but it was given in the press yesterday with a style and a title that gave only the impression that it had been sent to generals; it is certainly not such a situation; it is a 17-page letter to be shared with the nation, without secrets.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0067par0301	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0068par0302	That's all there is to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0067par0304	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0069par0306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We repeat as the Republican People's Party: I would like to stress that the latest coup in Turkey, the July 15 coup, will not be held by a criticism or insult of the Republican People's Party by reminding the Council of Turkey that members of the EC PARTİ, before members of the Turkish Parliament, have come running. As Mr. Akçay said, it's an open letter to the public. It's the 104 admirals' press release, and it's open to the public, and ultimately their timing, and I wish they'd thought it would bring that kind of association. But Mr. Elitaşta, our friends from the EC PARTI, Mr. Erdogan, must be sure that even discussing the coup in Turkey now is absurd.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0067par0309	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0069par0310	So I had this idea about Mr. Erdogan: Mr. Erdogan, just because he was paranoid about a coup, there's no need for that, I've said several times to make sure he didn't worry. But I see that the paranoia of the coup has replaced the coup d'état. So the more people say I'm hungry. The more I say I'm unemployed, the more people say I'm cold, the more I can't open my combo. The more people cry out, the more they don't talk about it, the more the tradesman, the more the farmer's state is not on the agenda. Again, this nation has absorbed and embraced democracy, and it has embraced the democracy that you have destroyed. We'll fix it, but in Turkey, the era of coups is really over. In one country, if the AK PARTI is talking about it, it will take care of itself, look at its impacts on democracy, on the parliamentary system.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0067par0312	Complete.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0069par0313	I'm finishing. Mr. Elitaş said something nice -- I don't know where he is -- he said: "The state officials will serve as officers." As opposition, we don't want to respond to the opposition, to the abuses, to the insults, to the defamation of a villain, to the law of 657, called Fahrettin Altun, called Fehrettin Altun. (AS/TK) We're dealing with Mustafa Elias, not Fahrettin Altun. He'll know his place, he'll know he's an officer, he won't trust his day, he'll know they'll be questioned tomorrow. Moreover, the Chinese ambassador will know his place. Shame on the Chinese Ambassador, Mr. Coral Akşener, and Ankara Metropolitan Mayor and the government of the Republic of Turkey, if they can't take the ambassador by the ear and deport him.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit02spe0070par0317	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0070par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Good Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Tuesday 6/4/2021 (today), I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. The proposal has been suggested by Kayseri MP Dursun Atash and 19 MPs that due to the rise in the state's external debt due to the rise in the bill of the President of the Central Bank's decision on the night after his dismissal, the meeting of the State's foreign debt should be met on Tuesday (May 6/4/2021) in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the harms of citizens operating in various sectors. To explain the motive of the proposal, Mr. Dursun Atash is a member of the Kayseri Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0071par0015	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to conduct a parliamentary inquiry on how the increase in the foreign debt of the state has been affected by the increase in foreign currency after the midnight discharge of the president of the Central Bank, which I have given my 19 fellow lawmakers from the ICJ party. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, chairman of the EC PARTI, appointed Mr. Naci Agbal as President of the Central Bank four and a half months ago between March 19 and March 20 Marta, replaced him with former AKP MP Mr. Şaap Kavioğlu, who then lost about 15 per cent of Turkish lira. Within hours, the dollar rose from 7.20 levels to 8.30 levels. Depending on that, both our country's foreign debt has increased and the industry that first reached raw materials with dollars has experienced anxiety, and all our citizens have experienced a deep sense of the negative effects. The joyful decision of one person created by the party's presidential system brings a new burden to our country and to our citizens every day. The public's debt has increased by $225 billion, and the private sector's debt has increased by 250 billion. The joy of one man and the party president's system cost the Turkish economy 500 billion Turkish liras that night. It's not in the pockets of those who enjoy palaces, it's in the pockets of those who are already struggling to make a living. The president's irresponsibility will not be paid for by contractors, but by all our citizens, from his employee to his officer, from his pension to his farmer, from his tradesman to his industrialist. Isn't that a shame for people? Members of parliament, the independence of central banks -- the symbol of the sovereignty of the countries -- responsible for printing money and running the monetary policy -- is very important. What makes the Central Bank reliable is independence and stability, which enhances the efficiency and success of monetary policies, and achieves the goal of price stability. For that reason, the President of the United States Central Bank is in office for four years; the President of the United States cannot remove the President of the Central Bank unless there is an extraordinary situation. In view of the situation in Europe, the European Central Bank shows that the period was eight years. Destabilisation all over our country is also seen in the Central Bank, a vital institution. The mandates of the Central Bank presidents who took office in our country after 2016 are getting shorter and shorter. In April 2016, Mr Murat Çetinkaya served less than a year and a half following him while staying in office for nearly three and a half years. Mr. Naci Agbal's term of duty did not take up to five months. In the United States, four presidents have changed in 34 years, while four presidents have changed in four years. As a result, Turkish lira has turned into stamps, interest rates have increased, foreign currency has increased, unemployment has increased, inflation has increased. The AKP's statement has replaced instability and reduction in the economy. Congressmans, can the economy be managed by changing the president of the Central Bank every six months? Can there be any mention of stability in a country where the president of the Central Bank has been relieved of duty by the nightly decree? Does an investor come to a country that only one man manages by making decisions that suit his taste? Can you trust the money of a country that's in overdrive? Members of parliament, it is clear that these developments have had great damage to the Turkish economy. Because of the increase in dollars, the state's foreign debt increases, while the industrialist, who buys raw material with dollars, will be unable to produce all the inputs from its seed into its fertilizer, a dollar-indicted farmer. Electricity from gasoline and natural gas, the rise in everything and future increases will deeply affect all citizens. In one night, I asked for it. The decision made with logic must be looked into the cost of our state and nation, taken care of, and solutions to this situation. Therefore, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, hoping that you will support our research proposal, which aims to make our nation breathe.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0072par0023	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Necdet İpekım, Batman MP. Here you are, Mr. Silkface.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0073par0026	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In Turkey, the agenda is changing at full speed, one changing agenda can immediately forget the other. The president of the Central Bank was relieved of duty one evening. Does anyone know why he was relieved of duty? Only one person knows why he was suspended. No one knows, and no one feels the need to explain. And then there's a serious exchange crisis, there's a wolf rising, millions of people getting poor overnight, very few getting rich. When we ask him to account for this, when we speak, is there any explanation? No. Who's playing with this money? No explanations again. Well, he's got a lot of public-private currency debts, highways, bridges, airports, city hospitals. When we ask about him again, there is no explanation, it's called the secret. When the country is really run like a company, you can destroy autonomous independent institutions whenever you want. So, what does it cost? We're becoming a country that's becoming poor, unemployed, and increasingly in debt, so to speak, borrows money from a loan shark. In the last 20 years, when we looked at the world, 4 or 5 Central Bank presidents had changed, Turkey would launch a revolution with the new system, the presidency system, 4 Central Bank presidents in 20 months. WHEN we look at it, it changes again. Because why? When they don't come to their account, they know how to change and spend people. What are Central Banks? The Central Bank is very important; what will it do for agriculture, whether it will allocate the capital's money, whether it will make its preferences from the worker or from the officer, or from the large majority; there should be a partnership with the Finance Ministry, but we know that the preferences here are very different. What happened, the economic reform package was announced not four days later, the president of the Central Bank changed; what followed? Friends, a change of a penny is $4.310 billion, and when it's 10 cents, it's 43 billion, and when it's $1, it's $430 billion. So, what do you do with 430 billion? You're putting an end to short work grant, give it to them. Support for the tradesman? Give it to me. Does society need a vaccine? Do it. Tomorrow, the Plan and Budget Commission comes with a bag of legislation called configuration. With 12 percent, you'd have a configuration of 18? That's loan sharking, interest-making. Come on, let's erase the farmer's debts, add to the pensioners, give minimum wage to the unemployed if people can't really make a living except for short work grants. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0074par0032	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0073par0033	There's no approach to any of this. Why not? Because that's the way they choose to maintain their own power in a single, authoritarian government. As long as you're destroying universities, banks, all the institutions that need to be autonomous, you're accelerating your own departure. For peace and human rights and the development of the economy, a country needs to determine not only the President of the Central Bank's change, but its preferences and economics. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0074par0036	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Selin Sayek Böke. Here you go, Mr. Böke.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0075par0039	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been relieved of duty as President of the Central Bank, who has only been on duty for a hundred and thirty-two days on a midnight decision on March 20th. Instead, he was appointed the 4th president of the single man's regime in two and a half years, the president of the 4th Central Bank in two and a half years, with the full satisfaction of the nature of the one man's regime. I asked for it, I got it. I was told so. Just as you re-opened last week's law proposal against the law and the Civil Code, which was voted and rejected by the Assembly of Parliament, as you attempted to get one person to come out in the middle of the night with the arbitrary signature of a member of the Istanbul Convention, which has been unanimous in this Grand National Assembly of will. Every chance you get, you trample the national will willingly and then you're terrorists all over the place! You're traitors! You're coupters, as you attacked. So, the only man who has ignored this pleasure of yours, the national will, pays the cost of your regime by millions, the public pays it, we pay it all together. And it came to pass in the middle of the night, when he had laid off the president of the central bank, that night, that the dollar was seven and twenty hundred and twenty; and in the following days, we awoke, and the dollar came up to the dry eight and twenty. That night -- before this decision -- the interest on ten years of government bonds was 14 per cent, now over 18 per cent. Our money is losing value because of the order you set up and insisted on. The interest is increasing because of the order you set up, deliberately and willingly. And what happened? The interest has increased and the exchange rate has increased, a development to be said, a great success. Turkey has $450 billion in external debt, saved up in your time. And that debt -- that's because of your arbitrary decision -- has increased $425 billion in the last two weeks alone. Public-private co-operation projects, foreign currency guaranteed projects, enriching companies and knowing that they're being given, the guarantees we know at this stage are at 150 billion dollars. The burden of these guarantees alone increased by more than 141 billion dollars in these two weeks because of your arbitrary decision, so each of our citizens averaged $6,280 poorer because of the increase in these two costs alone, and in two weeks, the citizens became poorer than $6,280. Why? It's because of this arbitrary arrangement that you've built and insisted on. That's not the price the public pays. All our production depends on imported entries. So what happens when the currency loses its dry value - Turkish lira? Costs are going up. Here are the inflation numbers that were announced yesterday...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0076par0043	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0075par0044	The manufacturer's inflation has reached 31 per cent, at the top of the last two years. The effects of this play in the wolf from the pleasure management haven't been reflected yet. Because of your arbitrary and illegal regime, the citizen pays more every time he gets on a bus, every time he goes on a Sunday and buys tomatoes, every time he pays an electric bill, he pays a higher bill because of your arbitrary arrangement. You also didn't leave a vehicle in the Central Bank to make money policy, you destroyed the $128 billion reserve. Really, tell me, where is this 128 billion dollars? Again, where's your people's 128 billion dollars? It's not about Ahmet, it's about Ayþe instead, it's about confidence in the ability of institutions to solve problems and independence. We will certainly establish a system that creates income by production, an equal, fair, and free order. We're going to establish a democracy-run order with the public, not the pleasure of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0077par0049	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Abdullah Nejat Koçer of Gaziantep. Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0078par0052	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group's recommendation. I salute the High Council. Congressmans, the world is changing at a stunning rate. To adapt to this change and to the new world order, we need to take new steps every day. The price requires a climate of trust and stability to be balanced in stability and employment, to maintain the balance of foreign trade, to maintain economic growth. The effort to ensure the trust and stability that the world and our country need continues nonstop by our Central Bank. However, many developments in both the world and the region and our country can affect exchanges and stock markets. The most important thing for the economy is that production and employment continue to protect itself. With the plague, the world is going through a difficult time. Despite new negative processes in export markets during this difficult period, Turkey broke the export record for all time in March, signing a new success with a 42% increase in March. Turkey, which protects its employment and production power, has begun to set historical records in exports. In March, our foreign trade deficit dropped from $5.5 billion to $4.7 billion, with a significant decline of about 14.2 per cent compared to 2020. The economy's stability and trust process, of course, is not easy, it can be ups and downs; it's our grown human resources and our production power that we have. There's a Turkey now producing and producing record exports in the world markets. There is a Turkey that has achieved great success in the defence industry, creating brands, offering its innovative products to the world markets, which is driven by high-tech products. Despite a global challenge such as the pandemic, our country continues to shine its star in the direction of its precious export goals of permanent growth and addition. Every decision has been made to ensure that our country's better tomorrows and a better stabilisation process. As our country grows stronger, our economy will be less affected. Turkey has managed the epidemic in the best possible way, despite all negative developments. With these feelings and thoughts, I would like to say that we did not agree with the PTA group proposal, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0079par0057	Mr. Altay... Y O L A M A
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0080par0060	We have a roll call before the good-party group proposal is voted.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit03spe0079par0061	There's a request for a roll call before the motion is voted. Mr. Altay, Mr. Ünsal, Mr. Zeysal, Mr. Aytekin, Mr. Kaycıoğlu, Mr. Hancioğlu, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Islam, Mr. Emecan, Mr. Adıglül, Mr. Gökçel, Mr. Çivçier, Mr. Keven. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0079par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Y O L A M A Prior to the vote of the well-party group proposal, the roll call on request was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the P.A.P.P.P.P.P.P.P., those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has one proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 6/4/2021 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. On March 30, 2021, Istanbul MP Musa Piroglu and his friends suggested that the talks be held Tuesday (May 6/4/2021) in a merger of 6/4/2021 of Parliamental Research Proclamation, which was given 12304 groups to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate the problems of young unemployed and various professional groups of university graduates waiting to be elected. İstanbul MP Musa Piroğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Piroglu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0081par0022	Mr. President, Merve Çavdar, 25, Aydın; Kevser Abdulkadiroğlu, 21, Kastamou; İbrahim Can Long, 27 years old; Nazilli; Ersin Turhan, 32 years old, Istanbul. You don't know the names I'm calling these, the candidates for teachers who committed suicide because they couldn't be appointed, and only four of the 50 suicides in the last two years. There are 2.5 million people who have graduated from universities across Turkey, who are looking for jobs, who are unemployed; 1.5 million of them have even stopped looking for jobs. That's the bottom line of suicides, and these suicides and these job seekers have something in common. These aren't in two groups. First of all, they're not rich kids, they're workers and poor kids, so they're looking for jobs because rich kids don't have a problem finding jobs, so they don't even think about suicide or anything. Second, they are not part of another group, they are not made up of the relatives and children of the AK PARTY, which is called the "EC children" on social media. So they're not like Hamza Indiankaya, the three bank manager with a fake diploma, so they're not like Kurdistan Ayvatoglu, who was caught with powdered sugar. So he licks the finger that holds the honey. They're not the kind of people who come to power and collect wealth and drive around in luxury cars and have all kinds of pleasures. They have to work for a living, they graduated from college, but they can't get a job. Why? One, the staff won't open. Two: they get into KPSS, they win, but this time they can't pass the interview. If you don't have torpedoes, you can't get a job if you don't have high torpedoes. There are 207 universities in Turkey, we boast with this number of universities; there are 7 million,940,000 students who study here. There are a number of reasons why universities are opening up so much and so many students are studying; one: the political preferences of power. Almost every city, every town, he opened university or university or university, so he created a source of income there. People go there, students go there, they stay in dorms, they go to cafes, they eat, they rent houses, and so the town lives off those students. Second: Nine million students have fallen from unemployment numbers, so they can make unemployment look pretty low. And this has something to do with capital. The capital increases the number of universities in all labour-force-cost areas, so it graduates thousands of students in order to balance supply demand, gives diplomas to thousands of students, and walks from here by reducing unemployment, lowering the cost of students, reducing labour market costs. People want jobs, teachers, non-assigned teachers, numbers of 500,000; dieticians, engineers, nurses, health school graduates, architects, sociologists, psychologists, paramedics, paramedics, odiothetists, all of them are trained labor sources, but they can't find jobs in public, they're forced to work in private sectors, they can't find jobs, most of them can't find jobs, and they won't have a chance of finding jobs as long as power keeps these policies going on, because the system established by power is this: a good college, even if you're in a very good college, even if you're a good university student, you're not able to get a job, you can't get a good job, but you can't get a good job in private sector. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP and CHP) The problems of non-assigned teachers, non-assigned students need to be investigated, and we know that they will not be accepted here, and we know that these suicides will not be cared for here, and we know that millions of people will not have problems.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0079par0025	Here you go, Mr. Piroglu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0081par0026	So I'm going to say one thing to all of these people who keep their eyes and ears on this place, to almost everyone, to every member of this House, looking for a job, asking for a staff: these ruling policies are responsible for your unemployment, for your inability to be appointed. As long as power survives, you have no chance of finding work and living humanly. Either you're going to take action to bring them down, or you're going to keep waiting at the door. I say, "Come, let's make a move together."
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0079par0028	Mr. Fahrettin Yoshüssük is a Koniya MP in the name of the Good Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Uphill.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0082par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Chinese Ambassador, our President, Coral Akşener, and Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Mansur Süçek Bey, says we condemn him for his rudeness, and I hope that the Turkish Republic of Turkey's State will be sensitive to what is necessary to do so. Dear lawmakers, with the third wave in the pandemic, as the cases continue to increase every day, the short work grant has been removed, unfortunately, no more since April. What's going to happen instead? There will be layoffs; unemployment allowance will continue until May 17th, and as a result, our number of unemployed will increase. As of yesterday, our city of Conium Ereğli has unfortunately taken 300 employees on free leave. If this began in the beginning of this Ramazan month in municipalities, think about the private sector outside other public institutions; where will Turkey go? As of January, in our country, the official number of unemployed is up to 4 million -- TİK says this -- and broadly defined unemployment is over 9 million. According to unemployment and employment reports, broadly defined unemployment is up to 30 per cent; young unemployment has already exceeded 25 per cent; the worst is the majority of our university-educated unemployed. Today, unfortunately, we have 5 million, 938 thousand college graduates, 2 million, 200,000 of our young, who are now unemployed. Dear lawmakers, this is 2,200,000 college graduates, who, when they can't find a job, are paying off their KYK debts with interest, not enough, they're struggling with foreclosures. Gee, don't you have any conscience, no conscience in power? How do you repossess a college student who can't work, who doesn't have a job? But your opinion of college students is clear: ▪ We don't have to find jobs for every college graduate. You say, "Well, then, who are you going to get a job for?" Why are you in power? There's no answer to that question. Now, because of your lack of discretion, our young people are miserable, unemployed and victimized, but in this country, over 1.5 million immigrants work off the books because of you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0083par0036	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0082par0037	It's causing our young people to become unemployed, and it's causing our country to lose resources, but you don't have a solution to immigrants because you don't have an understanding of anything. You turned the country into an immigrant country. Think about why young minds have fled this country. We don't have to live with these immigrants because of your misdeeds. But you say: "You will live. We will not live, we will not live! (CELL PHONE RINGING) To him, dear friends... And then there's the code 29. Guys, what kind of country is this? They've got a code 29. It's a conscience! Of the 170,000 workers, I'm afraid, fired in a suspicious way, slandered. Come on, think about it, fix it. Let's at least take this matter seriously so that we can stop dishonoring and dishonoring people's family integrity.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0083par0041	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Onursal Adıl Yüzel. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0084par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the investigation of university-educated unemployment. I salute the General Assembly. Today, Turkey's real and burning agenda is young unemployment, rather than fooling around with its own artificial agenda. Two and a half million of our 15-34-year-olds are unemployed. The number of university workers in the Justice and Development Party's rule set a record and exceeded 1 million. So I have read this speech, I have two universities, I have two diplomas, I have sold eggs in the market. I have read about it, I have read about it, I have read about it, I have read about it, I have read about it, I can't even read about it, I can't even read about it, I can't even do it, I can't even get high marks, I can't do it in interviews. I want to go to Diyarbakır, I don't want to go to Diyarbakır to be blind. Don't those of you who brag about opening up a college in 81 have a bad conscience? Twenty years ago, college in this country was an honor. Today, parents tell their children: "Son, be a reader, my daughter, be a student, be a professional. " Dear lawmakers, if you are considering the situation of young people in Turkey today through young people riding millions of dollars in jeeps around you, you are in grave error. Dear lawmakers, a new data has been released in Turkey today. In the last six months, the number of college graduates in an unprofessional job has increased by 97 percent, so your lie has collapsed. For example, Adana Metropolitan City has been put on an ad. You know what he's looking for? Bureau personnel. The driver and the park are looking for 200 people in the yard. How many have applied? Fifty-two thousand people. How many are college graduates? Forty-five thousand. He applied to 45,000 college graduates. This is what you've done with Turkey. You don't have one concrete suggestion for the youth unemployment problem, dear friends. You condemn teenagers, college graduates, unsecured college graduates, off the record, college graduates to work under minimum wage.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0085par0047	What do you suggest?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0086par0048	You've been in power for 20 years, you're talking about our time, 20 years ago.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0087par0050	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0088par0051	Dear MPs, do you know what the young people in Turkey say, what the young people in Turkey say? We're all out of hope, he says. A young man, my father was a tradesman, and I could barely read on a student loan. I'm unemployed, unemployed, but the interest on my student loan continues every day. Another young man, I work for 12 hours a day for 40 or 50 liras. In this country, I have to take a 36-month loan to buy a computer. In short, dear friends, let me summarize in three words the state of young people in the 19 years of Justice and Development Party rule: college graduates, unemployed, in debt. If we're going to do a good deed under this roof, if we're going to put an end to it, let's all say yes to this motion, let's take a step under the roof of this House for young people. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0089par0056	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Orhan Yegin will speak. Here you go, Mr. Yegin.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0090par0059	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the motion. I salute our holy nation and the Veterans Assembly representing it. Precious lawmakers are right, unemployment is one of the biggest problems in our country as it is in the world today. We're aware of the problem that the numbers are causing, we're not going to ignore the problem, we're not going to cover it up. The unemployment rate was 13.7 per cent in 2019, and the number of unemployed was estimated at about 4.5 million. In this framework, the unemployment rate in Turkey took place at 13.2 per cent in the previous year, with half a point less than the previous year, but according to TİKİK Statistics 2020, there were about 410,000 unemployed across the country last year compared to 2019, but we will not say that even if the unemployment rate was reduced by half a point last year, we will not say that this job is over. We aim to reduce unemployment by 2023 with the new Economy Programme, and we will accomplish that by setting new goals on the ground, and hopefully we will remove unemployment from the country's agenda. Yes, the figures for the pandemic period and the pandemic period of the pandeminium may not have the upward acceleration, as we're used to in terms of the practice of government, but even in the most advanced country's economies, it's not easy to maintain at least jobs in such a destructive pandemic environment that millions of people are out of work and under the influence of the entire world. Precious lawmakers, the EC PARTY, are a power that deals with our country's problems in a fundamental way and deals with problems with them in a way that can overcome problems with the will of God. The EC PARTY authorities have taken significant steps in employment, with various programmes and incentives. Although we were able to make our country first among the OECD countries in 2007 and 2019 to join the labour force among the most growing countries in 2007 and 2019, we were able to make our country in the OECD countries in 2007 and 2018, although we were able to make our country first in employment, although the population was 66.5 million and active in 2002, when the population was about 12 million and 18 per cent of the population was insured -- in 2019 the population of 83 million people had increased by about 22 million, or 27 per cent of the population, although we were able to increase its population in employment population in 2002 -- although we were able to produce 27 per cent in 52 per cent of the United States --
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0091par0064	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0090par0065	...even though we were a government that was able to reduce it to 32.7 in 2020, although we were a government that reached about 5 million public officials in 2002, with 2 million, 561 thousand in 2002. We have the determination and the faith to continue and praise God, who knows there's more to be done for this nation, and who puts all its efforts, all its efforts, all its efforts, all its efforts, for this great nation. Dear lawmakers, do you know how we can manage to increase employment, reduce unemployment, share more by producing, raise the standards of our officers, pensioners, women, young people, our good nation? By looking at our differences as a wealth, not as a separatist to our differences, by stressing our state and nation's lives, by sticking together and shoulder-to-shoulder, by maintaining our political competition in a respectable language and manner, but without company...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0091par0068	Complete.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0090par0069	...to stand against e-mighty declarations, against those who want to break the stability and trust of this country, as one punch; to walk our path together, believing in coup attempts, the terrorization of our streets, the digging of pits, and the terror attacks on our borders together, with the same anxiety and ton of anxiety and unconcerned challenges, but I hope that there will be no obstacle to this nation's ability, if we all walk together, to believe in the extent and importance of our ability, our values, and the siege of our unity.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0091par0071	I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Tuesday 6/4/2021 (today), I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. The proposal was suggested that the meeting of Parliamentary Council of Turkey's 10/4048 main Parliament Research Advision (now) shall be held on Tuesday 6/4/2021 of the General Assembly (now) for the purpose of identifying the problems of lawyers and law school graduates (to bring solution proposals to these problems). İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0092par0083	Dear President, I salute you all with respect and respect. The profession of a lawyer is one of the three constituent elements of the judiciary -- law enforcement, prosecution and law enforcement. Of course, in our country, lawyers have a lot of problems; I'm going to count them as headlines. 1) The number of law schools is very high and its quality is constantly falling. 2) Intern lawyers are in serious economic distress. The judge and the prosecutor should be paid as well as the interns, and their insurance should be covered by the government. 3) Lawyers who can't establish their own legal office are facing economic difficulties, choosing to work as a committed employee, covered by insurance in the presence of another lawyer. 4) Lawyers are trying to block case review and sample processing. Lawyers can't study the file enough, and since they can't study the file, they can't do enough to defend it. The judge and the prosecutors don't want a lawyer who knows the case, that's the truth. In this regard, the opportunity to study files is very important. 5) Trials are held twice a week in the courts. Just as Parliament says I have a lot of workloads, it works three days a week, and if it's not enough, the judges do it the same way. If there's not enough time for trials, let them do it five days a week, four days a week. That's a big problem. 6) At the same time, judges do not hold hearings during trial hours, and lawyers are kept waiting there for hours. 7) Lawyers are unable to submit a notice with a general power of attorney. I'm calling from here to the Justice Department, where officers are being taken to the courthouses. We have friends who have retired from the DA's office, from the judge's office. It's more useful, more efficient, if the law graduates are allowed to receive officers at the courthouse. There's a big flaw in that. 8) The excused judges do not come to the hearing, the lawyers do not know the excuse, and when they go from one city to another, they face the judge's alibi. If the judge, who has an alibi for that day, is reported to the lawyers who have a trial on UYAP, then the victims will be removed, and there will be problems. The courts don't usually write down the attorney's fee, the power of attorney, the power of attorney, and they write down the power of attorney, and the lawyers, they argue about it, they appeal, they deal with it all the time. At the same time, the charges for CMC deployment are very low, and the tax is paid in advance, and it can be collected after a long time, which also causes the victims of lawyers. Lawyering is a public service, the founding element of the judiciary. That's why lawyers are really working hard to get the cases to end, but when unfairly accused of lawyers, the Ministry of Justice allows them to investigate without review, under Article 58 of the Law of Law. So I think the citizen is actually more concerned with the indictment, the complaint, the assurance than the lawyers. Because while your citizen is complaining about each other normally, the Department of Justice is immediately authorizing an investigation into lawyers in cases that can't be prosecuted. There's been a lot of problems with the ban on advertising lately. In the profession of law, you know, there's a gag order, not like any other profession. In our country at the same time, the expectations of lawyers are being drawn in different directions in the face of increased judicial interference. Some lawyers join hands with political parties in order to get a job -- so our friends here -- don't be sensitive to themselves -- register at the party where the ruling party is at ease, where they get all the law services related to public institutions, for example, friends from the EC PARTY for this period; other lawyers don't get it, they don't give it. So my plea for him from the ruling party, in doing so, is to present these things with justice and justice. Another problem with lawyers, Covid vaccine. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0093par0100	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0092par0101	Sir, the Justice Department is making a statement about the Covid vaccine. All members of the judiciary have been taken from their drivers to their clerks to their bailiffs, but neither in the 1st Article of the Law of Lawyers nor in the penal code are included in Covid's inoculation, even though it is called part of the judiciary. The courts, the executions, they all have government phones, but the government won't pick up that phone, guys. I mean, why do they put those phones in the pens? None of them are picking up, and I'm asking you, the phones put in those pens should be available. Public defenders need 4200 additional indicators, not 3600. Our friends, the public defenders, are being brought friends who don't understand law, which is not the right thing to do. You make people who don't have lawyers, who don't have law school, who make compromises. He's both a public servant and a peacemaker, working overtime, and the government pays him for additional income. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's take my plea from you, please, to the people who have never seen the law.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0094par0107	Let's complete it, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0092par0108	Can you promise to bow, Mr. President? To greet you? Thank you, my dear President. Now, my dear friends, we call the profession of attorney a public service. Since it is a public service, taxes must be zero. Justice has no taxes, justice has no VATs, justice has no stalls, so you have to reset the VATs about this legal fee. The BUG-KUR premium is the highest, but the minimum wage on pensions is lawyers, so, my friend, why are you so high on BUG-KUR and so low on pensions? One of the biggest problems is the damage consulting firms. Companies open it up, they hire lawyers, they hire lawyers to do all the damage. Alas, sin must be stopped at once. Here, all rights granted to judges and prosecutors must be granted to lawyers as well. Sir, there's actually a lot to say. In public institutions, lawyers are understaffed, these staffs need to be filled. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you. And thank you again for your patience, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0095par0117	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel on behalf of the Good Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0096par0121	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party, the PTA Party, to the high Turkish nation, to the Republican People's Party, and to all of you, I salute you. One of the founding elements of the trial is that lawyers who are accepted and represent the defense are unfortunately treated as stepchildren in the judicial community. In the latest example of this, it has become a sad situation for lawyers who have been vaccinated all of the court employees, but are an integral part of the courthouse and have to be found more often in the halls. Again, for many years, the opinion and opinion of those in charge of the Ministry of Justice -- from Mr. Minister to the General Director -- that the prosecutor and the defense should be present on the same level, according to the principle of equality of arms between the attorney and the attorney general -- has not been fulfilled until now, unfortunately, on behalf of the lawyers, it is sad. Again, the ranking of success in law schools has been drawn from 190 thousand to 125 thousand, but everywhere, a law school has been opened, and so the graduates of law school have been many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many problems being employed as in every field. In Niğde, in Nevşehir, in Kayseri, in Aksaray, in Aksaray, the potatoes are rotting, while searching for solutions, unfortunately, some 5 million college graduates today are wasted because they can't carry out their professions; a solution must be found. I think it's law school that's the easiest to get into. 20 rows, 2 academics, and I think it's important to avoid opening law schools at every university, because our young people who graduated from these schools before they could get the required education and education, unfortunately, are preventing the desired efficiency at every stage of the trial. Again, most of our lawyers have a income below the poverty line. In the first five years -- our lawyer friends know -- they're having trouble paying insurance premiums, even store rents. So a colleague of mine, who I told you I'd be giving a speech about today, says he's been a lawyer for nine years and he hasn't paid an insurance premium for a month.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0097par0128	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0096par0129	So when I say, "Well, how do you take advantage of health care?," he says, "We take advantage of private hospitals from time to time with our money, and from time to time by making private health insurance. " We need to find a solution to that, too. The most important source of this is the fees from CMC. When we look at the fees from the CMK, it's very funny in today's economic conditions. At least these fees should be half the amount mentioned in the minimum wage rate of the Department of Justice so that the lawyers who perform this service can breathe a little bit. Again, our interns, our young lawyers, must either be supported by the bar or financially by the Justice Department. I'm saying that the insurance premiums of our lawyers, who have started as lawyers and have not completed five years, will also be paid by the state or by the Bar Association, which will give our young colleagues a breather. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0098par0133	Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0099par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been promised to share my views on the research motion for lawyers to investigate their professional problems and get a better life. First of all, I salute the General Assembly and our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens with love and respect. Yes, there are more than enough law schools in Turkey. There are 84 law schools in the area of public universities, foundation universities, and universities in Cyprus. Besides, if it's not enough, there are five other law schools that don't have students yet. Finally, a law school was opened at Boğaziçi University because there were no academics to support the trustee of Boğaziçi University. The academics who will be appointed to that faculty will be tried to support the trustee at Boğaziçi University. According to official data from the Turkish Bar Association, the number of lawyers registered to 81 bar in 80 counties is more than 143,300, and the number of lawyers serving in the public office is close to 150,000 lawyers in Turkey, not including lawyers who haven't registered in the bar. In fact, the number of law school graduates is far above that, but since lawyers can't practice their own professions, they can't open an office freely, so they run other businesses. In fact, we have thousands, tens of thousands of lawyers, colleagues who work for a law firm for almost minimum wage. In short, the motion to investigate this issue is actually an opportunity. If this motion is accepted, we will be able to make sure that this problem is thoroughly investigated. It's not just about law schools, it's about all the professional groups because of a mistake in planning. Look, there are over 700,000 unassigned teachers and the number is approaching 1 million. Now, Turkey's Statistical Foundation was established in 1926; it now continues its work as TİK. Look, TÜİK shares incorrect information on a lot of issues, shares faulty information about inflation, shares faulty information about national income per capita, shares incorrect information on many issues. But what we do know is that the censuses are reliable, so the populations given by the Turkish Statistical Agency are reliable. He also has a chance to develop a population projection for the years to come, since the past data from the Turkish Statistical Agency is correct. A year later, five years later, ten years later, 25 years later, Turkey can predict its population by age groups, Turkey's Statistical Institute.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0100par0143	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0099par0144	I'm finishing, Mr. President, thank you. If a country has this information, it can make its plans for the future more accurate. You open a faculty according to what the country needs, as much as it needs a teacher, as much as the country needs a lawyer, as much as it needs a judge, as much as it needs a prosecutor, that's for doctors, that's for nurses. In fact, it was a great demagogue. If you don't have the right plan, you might not even eat rice tomorrow, you might not even find that rice. So it's not too late, but with planning, we can determine the professional groups that this country needs in the future, and I say we can open up a faculty, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0100par0147	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Izmir MP Mahmut Attila Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0101par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party group proposal, and I hereby salute your High Council. The access to material truth is also a system that recognizes the trial as a collective effort by judges, prosecutors and lawyers and creates the framework for appropriate legislation. It's not rational to think otherwise. One of the preconditions for the rule of law is the right to defend. In accordance with the principle of equality of weapons, one of the elements of a fair trial, the rights and obligations to be held before the court must be equal. A paralegal was born with the use of a paralegal, a paralegal. In our country, it is necessary to strengthen the practice of law enforcement in order to be accepted as a public service and to be carried out in a qualified manner. I see that it would be helpful to evaluate three main points in order to strengthen the practice of law enforcement and to eliminate problems. They can be grouped as problems in education, employment, and occupation. We've made very important arrangements in 18 years to resolve these problems and strengthen the practice of law enforcement. Again, with a judicial reform strategy document and a human rights action plan, we have reiterated that determination. We need to raise well-educated, well-trained, legal infrastructure, talented, successful lawyers, and at this point, it's important that the academic staff be strengthened and the curriculum be reconstructed. Yes, after the judicial reform strategy document, as the first judicial reform package, we brought to Parliament the Law Proposal 7188. I also looked at the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I've pushed myself to believe that you're sincere, but the Law number 7188 has helped solve many of our colleagues' important problems, while both the Commission and the General Assembly remain in our memory as well as the opposition to the Republican People's Party. Of course, Mr. Altay has an important saying, it's in memory, he says: "If this government does the best work in the world, we won't be applauding this government." Yes, Mr. Altay, we don't expect a round of applause from you either.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0102par0153	You wait, you wait.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0101par0154	Our nation has already applauded us with its votes since 2002, giving power and governance to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and here at Parliament, the Cumhur Alliance as its largest group.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0103par0156	It's faulty production, faulty production.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0101par0157	If you're sincere about this proposal, the Judicial Reform Strategy Document and Human Rights Action Plan both spoke ahead of me... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0104par0160	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0105par0161	They're calling it back, Attila, the faulty production.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0106par0162	We see the Human Rights Action Plan on the street.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0107par0163	At this point, both the Judicial Reform Strategy Document and the Human Rights Action Plan carry the issues mentioned by our orator friends who spoke before me as well as the Republican People's Party group proposal. The bill will be brought to parliament's agenda by our friends, along with the MPs. If you really are sincere about solving these professional issues and strengthening the practice of law enforcement, you will support this proposal in both the Commission and the General Assembly, and then we will believe your sincerity.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0106par0164	Nineteen years, 19 years.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0107par0165	I hereby salute your high council again.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0108par0167	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0109par0168	After the vote, Mr. Altay. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0108par0171	We want roll call.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0109par0172	You want roll call. Yes, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0108par0173	Since I have the right to speak out of spite in the same session, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0109par0174	Mr. Altay, Mr. Gökçel, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Şevkin, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Sviköz, Mr. Erbay, Mr. Şişal, Mr. Şaşal, Mr. Qadıgil, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Kılıç, Mr. Gürer, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Taşcıer, Mr. Budak. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Lawmakers who send compasses, please do not leave the General Assembly. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0110par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0109par0182	Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0110par0183	The speaker, Mr. Mahmut Attila Kaya, who was just speaking, had just spoken on the stand, also called my name and made a statement that would create a public misunderstanding by removing me from the context of a promise I had spoken before. I demand word, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0109par0185	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0110par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and the General Assembly, sir. Mr. Kaya will need to know that he does not expect beauty from the opposition; he does not expect applause from the opposition; it is true that, during a polemic with Mehmet Must, welcome to me. On his word, I say that we will not applaud you, and I stand by my word. That's what the famous pencil sharpeners of the pool media said when they were in trouble. Let me take this opportunity to say that if you're looking for a round of applause, it doesn't make any sense. Nor for this: There is a saying of mine, which no one can object to; for there is the best of the best. Therefore, there is surely the best of the best of the world. Opposition to power, okay, that's very good. If he says, power cuts off its efforts to achieve good, it slows down its speed, that's one. Second of all, for God's sake, you're not exactly applauding, people are in the middle. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, in Turkey, you started the habit of cheap bread out of ovens; there was no such procedure; you started bread on the rack, but you suspended the Constitution; there was no such thing, but I witnessed it for the first time on our lawmakers' trip to Isparta: is there a secondhand shoe going to the citizen's shoe store? He asks, "Is there a second-hand shoe?" he asks, citizen. Therefore, the state in which people are present is not the way to applaud you; it is the way to beat you to the ground. I think you should get your heads together. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0111par0195	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0110par0196	Sir, we have received many votes from the nation. If you believe that the nation is continuing its support for you, there is a majority of you, take a decision, bring a decision; you will be free of us, and you will be reassuring. By the time I pass through the polls, CHP MPs will go to Kars, Karabük, Yalova, Malatya, Adıyaman, Adıyaman; they will travel the streets, they will travel the tradesmen, they will travel the village.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0112par0197	There's work here, what are they doing there? Take them out for the weekend, take them out for the weekend.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0110par0198	Friend, if there is a servant of God who has seen three AK PARTY MPs on the street, please come to me.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0112par0200	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0110par0201	You have no face for the streets, your face for the streets. Or I'm making a very sincere and clear invitation, and I'm speaking to the AK PARTI MPs in the 3rd district of Istanbul, who are here: With me on Saturday, in the 3rd district, whichever district they want, it could be Bakırköy, and it could be Bağlers; whether you're in or out of the street! Let's go! What am I supposed to applaud for you guys?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0113par0203	Thank you. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Civil Code, I propose that the main Law Proposal (2/2652) be taken into consideration. Izmir MP Özcan Purçu will speak as the owner of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0114par0212	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you all my regards, my love. April 8th is two days away, so I don't know if the government can remember the Roma. I've been a deputy for six years, and I've got one AK PARTY MP coming in here to talk to me about the Roma's problems, and it's a shame! Shame on you! There are 5 million Roma in Turkey. We've always come as members of the Republican People's Party, and we've been talking, and we've been talking, like, one of the AK PARTYs, did the government come and talk about this? What do novels drink? April 8th, the world celebrates World Roman Day, all of Europe from India to America. Every year, I offer you a bill, and you don't take it for granted. You even agreed to Mother-in-law's Day, even Mother-in-law's Day.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0115par0214	You know, where is he?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0114par0215	Is there a Roman day? It's even a joke day. (CHEERING) Is that how much you care about novels? You know, when you were poor, now you've condemned the novels to hunger. The Roma are not poor now, so relax, the Roma are hungry, hungry. Now Republican People's Party municipalities don't bring food to Roma neighborhoods, but because of you, they don't cook at home. In the old days, the food used to be cooked, the bread line was made, thanks to you, but now it's not getting in the bread line because it's not cooking in the neighborhood. No bread in the house, no food; you led 5 million novels to starvation.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0116par0216	İzmir Metropolitan Municipality...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0114par0217	You once gave money to musicians during the pandemic period, musicians sold all their tools, musical instruments, ate them, drank them, you know? You killed culture. Take this day once a year, remember it once, remember it once. Look, the government doesn't look, the government doesn't look, the government doesn't enter our neighborhoods, the government doesn't look, the government doesn't look. 97 percent of the Roma are unemployed, you know, off the record. Do you know that 2 percent of the Roma are high school graduates, 4 out of 1,000 young people can barely get to college doors? Of course you don't know, your salt is dry. Look, you know what you guys do? Look, there's a list here, a tax debt zeroed out corporations, millions of millions.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0116par0219	Speak Izmir Metropolitan.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0114par0220	Why don't you guys take care of this? By God, you've starved the poor man, I'll tell you. Look, I offered you the law again, and you're not gonna take it again because you don't care about novels. The novels are one of the world's oldest societies. (CHP) Roma are a society with musical ears, art love; you killed art, you killed culture, you know? Give me a fucking break! Come on, let's face it -- you don't give these people food, you don't give them jobs -- at least talk once a year! There are 5 million Roma in this country! They're starving, the musicians are committing suicide, everyone's committing suicide, but you... look, there's your agricultural policy: you pay $44 million a year for dry onions, you import them, you don't spend a penny on those Roma in the strategy document! I've yelled over and over again, and you've made this strategy action plan as a government -- the action plan means to do work in the field -- you haven't saved a penny, I've told you over and over again. Don't you have a penny? Look, can I read to you about the companies where you've reset the tax debt? Why don't you at least give them their money? What does this poor man want with you? You see so much of this day, I've been bidding for six years, and you won't take it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0117par0221	Shame on you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0114par0222	Shame on you. We're citizens of this country, brother, we're first-class citizens of this country, but you're not looking, you're not looking. What more can I tell you? Don't we have that much value in this country? Young people in the swamp, people in the swamp, we say, "You've made a plan of action; come, give a value, go into the neighborhood." Is there a citizen here who's interested in the plan of action? Is there anyone here to come and defend the government's plan of action? No, no, no. We are no longer useful to you, but the people have seen the truth, and you will see what happens in the first election, and you will see what happens in the first election! (CHP rows, voices, applause) We value human beings because they're human beings, as Republican People's Party. Let's be powerful, see if that poverty stays, Is that poverty going to stay? See if there are any hungry people left on the street. Because the Republican People's Party values you first, takes you first, but you really don't have a conscience. We leave you to your conscience. Come, look at the Roman sites: humiliation, unemployment, despair. Come on, let's go with a congressman, come and see! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, could you pass it to me?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0118par0226	Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0114par0227	Guys, we're not as valuable as refugees, just so you know. I'm telling the Immigration Authority, give him a container, he's in the tent, he's a citizen. We can't give it to them. If he's a refugee, we'll give it to him. What kind of politics? I went to Edremit, and you built the TOKI building at the bottom of the Roman neighborhood. We gave him a list of 350 people. You didn't buy a novel off that list of 350 poor people. Who did you give that to? To whom did you give the Tokimite in Edremit? Take a look at Ziztepe, Sandzaktepe; for fifteen years there has been no electricity, no water. It's the center of Istanbul. Sandzaktepe City doesn't even come to Roman neighborhood to pick up garbage. You're lying! Take a look at the engagement grounds, my friends. Come and have a look! Come on, let's go! Come on, let's have a look! Let's go together, is there electricity or water? Come on! I'm ready. Let's go. Shame on you! That's how much you value human beings, but the Republican People's Party is almost in power. Then you'll see. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0118par0230	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0118par0232	Mr. Wait...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0233	Two minutes...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0118par0234	What's this about, Mr. Wait?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0235	On the word "Vicdan-free"
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0118par0236	What's it about, sir?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0237	After Mr. Purchu had insulted Mr. Purçu, without a conscience.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0120par0238	He told the government.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0121par0239	I told the government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0240	On behalf of our group...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0122par0241	Mr. Wait, make a statement from your position.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0242	Mr. President, we'd like a word on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0122par0243	You have an off-the-book conversation tomorrow. You, please, make a statement.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0244	I want two minutes of collusion.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0122par0245	No hard feelings, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0119par0247	We have a group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0123par0248	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0122par0249	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0123par0250	Mr. President, while Mr. Purçu was making his speech, he returned to the ranks of the AK PARTY and said, "Do you have no conscience?" He pointed to a town in Istanbul and said, "There is no water there." But water is the work of a city city city.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0124par0251	Mr. President, if it takes Roman to make promises, I'm Roman.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0123par0252	He has to say, Mr. Imamoglu, don't you have any conscience? Why don't you water where the novels live? He's putting all the problems on us. (AK PARTY) For him, all MPs said, "You have done nothing to the Romans." He used the expression, "You have done nothing." If you'll excuse me, on behalf of our group, let our Roman Congressman Cemal wait and answer.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0125par0253	On behalf of the group, Mr. Wait.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0124par0255	I'm Roman.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0126par0256	Mr. President, my esteemed representatives, I will speak tomorrow, but everyone accepts this very clearly. On the first day of its existence, we came to be the only ones of the lonely. We are representatives of an perception that says: Today, we see a review of the Roma on that stand. Which, Mr. Deputys, look, until today, until the time of the EC PARTY, the Roma have never even been able to ask for anything. You know why? Because he knows it can't be done. The Roma had no confidence that something good would be done for them throughout the history of the republic. Here, do you know what happened during the AK PARTY, Mr. Purchu? For the first time during the AK PARTY, the Roma felt equal, first-class citizens of this country, friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We count everything we do. We count education, health, housing, everything we do. Which we'll ask at my speech tomorrow. In my speech tomorrow, I'm going to mention all of them. Guys, what did the CHP municipalities do while Mr Purçu was talking? Let him tell me about them, did our deputy Özcan Purçu make a noise while Izmir took the village of Ege in Ranta? Tell us about him. (AK PARTY) We are representatives of a civilization that loves the Creator because of the Creator. We've said before with our Deputy Özcan that we're willing to put our hands under the stone, not our bodies, but here we don't challenge dry noise, dry speech, to solve the problems of the community's collective memory.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0127par0260	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0128par0261	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0127par0262	One moment, Mr. Purçu, one moment, sir. Congressmans, in honor of April 8th Roman Day, in the name of Mr. Purchu and Mr. Wait and as the President's Court, I say we sincerely support the two MPs' struggles in this House, hand in hand, arm and shoulder to shoulder. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0266	Mr. President, the secretary has used my name to pick on me, I want your word.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0127par0267	Mr. Purçu, there was no bullying about your person, but from your position...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0269	Yes, Mr. President, he used my name. He blamed our city, used my name.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0127par0270	Here you go, Mr. Purçu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0272	Mr. President, the orator teased, he said: "The rights of the Roma in Ege neighborhood have been withdrawn.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0130par0273	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0274	Look, there's a 100 percent settlement in Aegeantown. It's done with novels, and I'm with them.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0131par0275	Come on, come on, come on, let's go together! Let's go together!
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0276	I don't give anybody credit, and the Republican People's Party doesn't feed them, so don't worry. The Republican People's Party, the Roma, the mayor, and we sat down, in agreement... Look, I'll tell you something else you don't know: there's an urban transformation going on, as long as the tenants there are given houses, even for those who don't have a house. Even the tenants are entitled to it, that's one. Our urban transformation won't be like your Sulukule. (HPP clapping in rows) You nationalized Sulukule, you destroyed him overnight. The Rant transform is yours; ours is the rights transformation, you know that.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0132par0278	Lies, lies! Come to Izmir, İzmire.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0279	Izmir Metropolitan Municipality is an example of urban transformation, not like Sulukule.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0132par0280	Come to Izmir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0281	Take a look at Sulukule. You have driven the novels in one night, you have pursued others.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0133par0282	You wrote a fine of £25,000 each.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0132par0283	Come to Izmir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0284	Look, look, you've looted Istanbul, you've destroyed all the Roma neighborhoods, you've made a move on companies, you know that, don't you?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0133par0285	And he gave us a ticket because we didn't know.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0286	Look at the history of Sulukule. You destroyed our 550 years of history.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0133par0287	Twenty-five thousand liras per household, 20,000 liras, 10,000 lira fines.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0129par0288	I'm following the urban transformation of Izmir, so don't worry, we're not giving anyone the benefit of the doubt.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0133par0290	We don't eat anybody's rights.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0134par0291	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0135par0292	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0134par0293	Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0135par0294	Mr. President, I salute you and the grand jury. We've heard Mr. Puhchu's speeches, of course we agree with what he said about the rights of our Roma citizens. However, even the mother-in-laws have a day to compare it, but the Roma don't have a day to do it. He used a statement here that unfortunately insulted his mother-in-law, his mother-in-law, his mother-in-law. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP LINES) I don't think it's right to compare women to mothers in any way, to anything, thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0136par0297	The Roma have a mother-in-law! Mr. Engin, don't the Roma have a mother-in-law?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0137par0298	In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, and we move to the part of the agenda of the law proposals and other tasks from the Commissions.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0136par0299	Don't the novels have a mother-in-law?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0137par0300	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0138par0301	Mr. President, according to Article 81 of the Civil Code, a law rejected according to Article 76 of the Civil Charter, the same law cannot be discussed within a year's time of law. You are acting contrary to the law, so you can't take this proposal on the agenda now, and if you want to take it, I'd like to open a legal debate on you. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0139par0303	If you open it...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0138par0304	Against...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0140par0305	If you open it, it's in favor of...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0138par0306	Mr. President, I'd like a word against that, if you'd be so kind.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0141par0307	Mr. President, what you're talking about is a matter that has been discussed and completed last week, and it's been completed. The talks in today's merger are being held according to the agenda, which has been suppressed and distributed by the Speaker of Parliament. As the Presidential Court, there is no position at this time that requires a formal debate, so I can't meet your request.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0138par0308	Mr. President, there's no evidence in the raw reports that there's been any disagreement between the clerks, as stated by the Presidential Court. Thus, it is a lawless decision by the Speaker of Parliament, which only goes behind the back of the Civil Code, depending on the number of votes in the Presidential Court alone. This decision is not right to be carried out today by the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, and you can't bring up this proposal of the law. So I'm going to have to repeat the procedure discussion I requested of you, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0141par0309	I'm opening up the legal debate, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0142par0310	Lehte...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0143par0311	Lehte...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0144par0312	Against you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0145par0313	It's in both reports, and it's in those images, and the group's deputy presidents have objections, and the clerks have objections.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0146par0314	I told you, it's in favor. Sir, the procedure is to give one to the groups, so it is.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0147par0316	Ramadan Can in Poland. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0148par0319	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, last week, there was a debate over a controversial and agreed-upon agenda. I'll make my point in the direction of our president. Here's the agenda that was discussed last week and decided today, the red agenda. On this agenda is the Law Proposal of Ramazan Can and 64 MPs, whose number is 220, and the bottom is 2 stars. What does that mean? It's unfinished business. The unfinished work is already at the top of the agenda, which has been voted on. According to Article 13 of the Civil Code, Article 15 of the Civil Code, Article 141 of the Civil Code, the Council of Ministers has been called to a meeting this week. The group proposals for the agenda of the People's Party, Republican People's Party and HDP (HDP) have been voted and rejected, as the Council of Ministers has failed to hold a vote at the meeting. In the same way, according to the Civil Code, the proposal of the law was voted and rejected. Thus, the law proposals came up on the first part of the agenda. In the proposals of the law, it was resolved last week, and it was voted to be passed on to its articles, and the conflict was over, and it was addressed. Therefore, the position of our Deputy Speaker is in order. I speak for your attitude, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0149par0324	Against Lütfu Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0150par0327	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, this Parliament has witnessed something that 15 people have said yes to, and 150 people have said no, although the law has come last week to be re-voted.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0151par0328	That wasn't a number.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0152par0329	There were 234 of us here, not 15 of us.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0150par0330	There's 15 people, 150 people, and there's cameras. Look, I'll tell you something: You didn't like the election results in 2015, you got up five and a half months later, you made another choice; on March 31, 2019, you didn't like the election results, you made another choice in June. So you're going to a point where you're going to choose until you win the election. Look, this isn't called the democrasa, you know? Not only do soldiers make coups; it's a coup, a blow to the national will. A law that the national will doesn't accept has brought the Council of Presidents to peace to be renegotiated only by its numerical majority. We don't accept it, the Turkish people don't accept it. The Speaker of Parliament, who should have had the most of his will, has led to the abolition of Parliament's will. The Speaker of Parliament, who should be the most advocate of this Parliament's will, has made such a mistake. Let me tell you something, and just to make a note of it here, write it down: someday this will happen to you. You'll see, I'll ask you that day. We won't be unfair like you, but we sure as hell won't. When you come, we will be righteous. You have come, and you have done the greatest injustice. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] And the only reason I brought up this argument about this, and just this, is because, look, guys, I promise you, you guys, you're driving like a truck out of gear, and I'm sorry. You're not just self-destructive, you're wasting the country, you're wasting democracy, you're wasting the government of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You don't have the right, nor did the Speaker have the right. Unfortunately, he made such a mistake, and after that, I hope that Turkey will not bring any more mistakes with much greater problems at the head of it. We are not going to vote on this issue, we are going to stand up, we are going to talk about it, but just to make sure that this law is renegotiated in this Parliament, despite the 76th Amendment of the Civil Code, that the Assembly has demonstrated this injustice. I wanted to make a promise here that we would not vote for this law in the presence of our nation. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0153par0339	Dear Elitaş... Here you go, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0154par0342	It shouldn't be.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0155par0343	In favor or against?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0154par0344	He didn't used to be like this. You even changed that.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0155par0345	Mr. President, please meet his demands.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0156par0346	Mr. President, I'm speaking here because he handed over his request to the Presidential Court in my favor. I believe that's what Mr. Altay says.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0155par0347	What? You'd know it from me if you had a stone in your head.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0156par0348	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our esteemed congressman, Mr. Ramazan Can, has just explained how this applies to the Civil Code and its principles. Dear friends, according to the 13th Article of the Civil Code, the entire political party's Deputy Leaders of the Civil Charter, according to the 13th Amendment, said in the context of their meeting in the back room of the political Party Deputy Directors of the Party, which should have been carried out, that the decision of the Interior Charter, which should have been carried out on Thursday's meeting, was voted here as a review by the Council of Ministers, and that there is not enough of us, according to the 13th Article, to the Council of Ministers. However, our objection was that on that day we said to the Deputy Speaker of Parliament: "Look, the Clerk members object, you have to take into account these objections, because you have to take into account those objections, because the President of the Parliament, the Clerk, will count them together, after he has added his members' votes. Although there was a conflict between them and our friend there, let's go to the machine. Let's take an electronic vote.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0157par0350	It's not in the raw report, Mr. President, it's not in the raw report.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0156par0351	He didn't see between the MPs here and the MPs of the National Movement Party. The president looked here, and there were at least 40 or 50 MPs here. In this region, the total MP of opposition parties is 50. Look, there were at least 20 MPs at the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0158par0353	There were 15 of them. We saw them, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0159par0354	There were 14 of them!
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0156par0355	Dear friends, it's on camera. Look, we said that in Article 13 of the Civil Code, our Parliament Speaker said: "The Clerk Members did not object to me." But we saw in the video that the Clerk Members object to such objections; the Deputy Speaker of Parliament should have done so immediately. And then what did he do? On Thursday, when the presidential thesis was voted, when there were 250 MPs here, there were only 100 MPs in the opposition, so 2.5 times more, I disagree with them, and I vote electronically. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a half-minute's promise...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0160par0359	Here you go, finish up.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0156par0360	So in between, 1-2, 3-5 are different, whether it's in favor, whether it's against, whether it's on the other side of the majority, the president, on his own, used the statement of rejection by violating the Civil Code of his own will. But the next day, when there was a lot of magic here on Thursday, and there were 2.5 times the difference, I disagreed, and there was no more. He said, "There is no more." He corrected what he had done the day before, so he made amends on Thursday. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For him, my esteemed deputies, look, he's under arrest right now. In fact, the group proposals of the three political parties should not be discussed today. A group of our Vice Presidents said: "It's a matter of security in the day." Look, look at the first article of the Red Agenda, where the audits on Tuesday are not discussed, only the legal proposals are offered. What did you give the motion? You've submitted the audit motion. In fact, the Presidential Court, according to the Civil Code, should not consider group proposals. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0161par0365	We didn't discuss the motion. You're giving false information; we discussed the group proposal, we didn't discuss the motion.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0162par0366	Against Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0156par0367	Look at the first order of the Red Agenda, and read from there.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0161par0368	What will you do after the 12th?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0156par0369	Here, read the first row of this one.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0161par0370	Mr. Elitaş, this is not the nature of our group proposal, this is the suggestion. We brought it according to 19, and you know it very well. What I think of you is that you know the Civil Code as a matter number and form in this Parliament, but since you haven't grasped the spirit and essence of this Civil Charter in nineteen years, I feel sorry for it, and I feel sorry for it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, first of all, the House is no place to arm wrestle. So on March 31st, there's God up there, everybody knows...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0163par0373	It's everywhere.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0161par0374	Yes, it's in my jugular, too, Minister. Everyone knew that you as a group -- call it a failure, call it a negligence, call it a failure of duty, call it a lack of discipline; whatever you say -- you were lax, brother; you were lax, and the majority were in opposition -- of course, the majority of you -- and because of your laxness, a very rare business has come to life. The law, which you have kept waiting for a year and a half, which you hesitate to bring -- there is no stick of God -- has been rejected by such laxness, period. There's no argument there; as Mr. Turkkan said, the raw report, everything is in the middle. Your next approach is... you're going to be angry now... but naturally Mr. President of your party has told you, he's angry, he's angry; I don't know what he's done to you, but in the end, you and Mr. Speaker... Of course, there's a big flaw here. As a member of the AK PARTI Group, I've seen a lot of Speakers elected Speakers of Parliament, this is Mr. President, I believe, the 7th. Yeah, I swear, I've never seen you get off so much party pressure and pressure. What presidents we've seen! He came running here, sir, no. Sit down! Let these people run to your post, brother, Mr. Sentop, why do you come running here? So now, of course, the Civil Charter has defined the duty of 13 Diva, and I ask Elitas. I ask the number of matter in between, so I look at it and there's a pattern like this, so it doesn't say "3" from there, but it repeats it. Congress is no place to arm wrestle. It's a sin, it's a sin, it's not right. What would that be? What is ethically necessary? Why did you wait a year and a half for the same name and content of this law? Hasn't this law been in stock for about a year and a half, brother? What's he waiting for? The Supreme Court broke it twice. You are supposed to have covered the grounds of the Constitutional Court. You have brought this, saying, "Now, this will be discussed in a moment, and I hope it will not be seen." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll be right back.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0164par0378	Complete.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0161par0379	I know that's not true, and I know that a lot of you, at least a lot of lawmakers, know about it. The only question here is to fear God and not to be wronged. Just because your name is justice doesn't mean that your party's name is justice. There's a saying I like very much: that having a court of law doesn't mean there's justice there, just as your party's name is justice and their actions are completely unfair. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0165par0382	Mr. President, may I?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0166par0383	Mr. Elitaş, one moment, sir. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, your position, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0167par0386	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, yes, the Security Investigation Act came into this parliament on March 31st, and in a very clear light, in fact, it was rejected by the majority votes of the opposition. We've all seen it, Mr. President here has seen it, and actually the members of the Court have seen it clearly. But if there was a conflict here, I think it's also a question of political morality to express this conflict in this way, despite seeing this clear majority. But other than that, in the raw report, really, there was no objection to that vote. What could it be? Yeah, for once, for once... you were wasted, you weren't here, you weren't there, so it was clearly seen by everyone. Well, you could have said: look, there's democracy, and there's other voting. No, you can't even stomach that. You couldn't even digest it, and the great Speaker came running here, I couldn't believe my eyes, he really tried to convince everyone to change that outcome in the back. In fact, the Presidential Court didn't gather people like that at the request of the Deputy Directors of the Group here; there was a lot of pressure here, a lot of pressure. So you didn't recognize a decision that we were the majority and rejected. In fact, like so many times before, you didn't recognize the will of the House here, the will of the people.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0166par0389	Complete, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0167par0390	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Yes, we actually found that this will was not recognised on March 31st, and the entire public saw that you wanted this House to work, against your will, against your will, against your own will, against yours, against your will, and that you didn't want it to work. What's the law coming? Security investigation. For what? For your safety, not for anyone's safety. But it's not going to work for you, and you're bringing in a law that's going to cause you trouble in the future, and Turkey doesn't deserve it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0168par0394	Mr. Elitaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0396	Mr. President, while Mr. Altay was just speaking and Mr. Kerestecioğlu was making his statement, Mr. President, he was very unfair to our Speaker.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0170par0397	We missed it, we missed it, we missed it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0398	That's right. In Article 14 of the Civil Code, the Speaker of Parliament has been appointed to conduct the sessions and to conduct the mergers. In the 15th article, the Parliament Speaker presents to the Deputy Speaker the mandate to conduct the session. He says, like this, this session today, this will lead the merger, the next day, he's... he's done it for a week. But it is not possible for the Deputy Speaker of Parliament to perform the same rule, however the Parliamentary Speaker manages it, according to the Civil Code. As a matter of fact, it's wrong to state that the AK PARTY MPs weren't there when 236 MPs were present to request a roll call from 17 minutes ago.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0170par0402	You're not in the General Assembly...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0171par0403	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0404	It was as if the Speaker had come running here... under the pressure of the MPs of the AKP PARTI. It was unfair to the Speaker of Parliament. It is his right to intervene as soon as he sees that the Speaker of Parliament has violated the Civil Code, that the person he has appointed has been abused, because that is the position of the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0172par0405	Where did he see it? Where did he see it?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0406	Otherwise, it's not a situation for the pleasure of the person sitting here or the person standing here. And if you look at the last joke of Article 149, in the last joke, the president warns the MPs by ringing the bell before each vote, inviting them to the General Assembly. Did he do that that day? He didn't. Mr. Altay, I know the articles of the Civil Code, and I know the spirit.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0173par0407	You know, honey. You know. I already said it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0174par0408	Mr. President, is there such an app in the boards? Did Your Honor ever do it?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0409	But we worked so hard with you, I couldn't teach you the spirit of your soul.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0173par0410	You're saying...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0411	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm saying.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0173par0413	Why don't you find out? You couldn't teach it because you didn't, because you didn't.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0414	Mr. President says they should read 149/2, 149/2, they are called before each vote. If it's a matter of principle that day, if it's a difficult situation on that day, then the Clerk Members have carried out a warning.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0175par0415	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0169par0416	A moment ago, you told Mr. Purcu. You said no hard feelings. But -- I think -- our Republican People's Party friend explained to you: "That's the way it is, Mr. President." And you invited Mr. Purcu to the stand on the notice of my congressman, the Clerk Member. Mr. President, look, that's what Clerk Members are supposed to do. You also listened to those friends, and you did indeed act in accordance with the Civil Law. For him, dear friends, look, the Speaker is obliged to protect this Civil Code, to protect it for all of us. There was a breach that day, and the Speaker immediately carried it out. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0175par0419	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0176par0420	Sir, I have a brief request for 60.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0175par0421	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0176par0422	Thank you. I understood -- so I'll apologize to Mr. Elitas, and I'll say you were right -- that one, two, three, four, six, six, seven cameras are all on seven screens in the office of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and if our Speaker sees the view on these seven screens, then yes, the Vice President has made a mistake, he says, and he is right to come running here. If seven cameras here can't see every square meter of the General Assembly separately on seven screens in the Speaker's office, if I'm not mistaken, then the truth is, we know this and believe that God is the One who does not do wrong. Do you have any objection to that?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0177par0424	No.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0176par0425	It is God who does not wrong, and people do wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0178par0428	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0176par0429	It is fitting that if there are no seven screens in the office of the Speaker of Parliament, we will go running if you or we do anything wrong, then it is the office of Parliament. AK PARTY and MHP go, if they think it's appropriate, and they say, "There's been a big mistake in the General Assembly."
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0179par0430	The president arrived an hour later.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0176par0431	Sir, we know when you're here.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0179par0432	The president arrived an hour later.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0176par0433	That's what's happening, that's what's supposed to happen. That's why we say, Speaker, I wish we could all be Speakers. I didn't vote for him, but I wish we could all be Speakers. This is what is fitting, and what is worthy of the glory of the assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0179par0434	Mr. Altay, you were absent that day.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0176par0435	So it's possible to have this discussion over matter. Again, I say to Elitas: There is no way that you can make me understand the spirit of the Civil Law. Man cannot teach what he does not know, nor can he teach what he does not know.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0180par0438	The statement I've just made has been resolved. At this stage, we have to begin operations based on the agenda. There's been no change in my attitude.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0181par0439	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit04spe0180par0440	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We begin negotiations with Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 64 MPs in the first place, the Proposal of Security Investigation and Archive Research Law and the Interior Commission Report. 1. Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 64 MP Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal (2/2972) and Interior Commission Report (S. Number: 220) [[X]] Commission? He's in position. In the 67th Union of April 1, 2021, the amendment was adopted into Article 220 of the Law Proposal, which was considered to be the main law under Article 91. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 7th article. Mr. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu, MP of Adana on behalf of the FDA Party Group who has asked for a comment on the first chapter. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0182par0011	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party Group on the first part of Security Investigation 220 rows and Archive Research Law Proposal, and I salute your delegation. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the ruling group that will run the House. If the AK PARTI Group had joined the Parliament and provided the majority, this law, rejected by majority in the General Assembly last week, would not have been debatable. Because of the majority of you at the Presidential Court, you have brought back here illegally, and you have defied the law.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0183par0013	It's not illegal, Congressman.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0182par0014	You have ignored the law, the Civil Law, and, above all, the national will.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0183par0015	He came in legal.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0182par0016	Law proposals, which were rejected by the National Assembly of Turkey in Article 76 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, cannot be renewed during the same legislature of the Grand National Assembly until a full year has passed since the date of rejection. You have made it clear that the proposal cannot be offered in the same law for a year, as it is clear that it cannot be proposed in the same law. This and that sort of thing shouldn't become a habit in power, it's not a good way to go, my friends. I'd like to start by warning the power to turn this way one more time. Honourable lawmakers can offer various grounds and grounds for security investigation and archive research. Public officials are required to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to be impartial, not to abuse their authority, not to use their information against the state based on the mission. It is reasonable and acceptable that the Turkish Armed Forces, police personnel and some special officials are subject to a more intensive investigation as part of their duties, and there is no problem. According to this regulation, archive research indicates whether the person is still wanted by law enforcement forces, whether he is connected to law enforcement and intelligence units, and whether there is a criminal record, and whether there is any evidence of compensation. As defined by definition, the security investigation also includes research to be conducted under archive research. Archive research contains issues that can be objectively identified, such as whether or not a person is wanted, whether there is a criminal record or a limitation. The security investigation includes applications that include subjective assessments. Subjects such as how a person's moral status, his ability to keep secrets, and his relationship with strangers are determined by purely subjective opinions. The investigation should not be a basis for the personal opinion and moral norms of the person living in the area of the person's investigation; it should not be a basis for the lack of objectiveness of the information obtained from such research, if it is part of a report from the person's neighborhood, neighborhood, neighbors; it should be based on the fact that the study will be conducted under the scope of the current records and the fact that the person's location will be located or registered in the population. Article 1 of Law 4045 states that security investigation and archive research will be implemented on purpose and who will be carried out. It's a lack of personnel identification in non-disclosure units. In addition, it is not right to determine the level of secrecy of the regulation on Article 6 and leave the security investigation to the administration. In its proposal for the study, a general regulation of the state's security, the presence and integrity of the state may be harmed or compromised by internal and external interests, and the identification of secret public personnel and trade groups, the identification of the units and sections, the formation of units and evaluation commissions that will do so with the procedures and basis of the security investigation and archive research, and other issues of implementation of evaluation commissions will be put into effect by the President's administration, as well as by the way and by the way of the working and fundamentals of the evaluation commissions. In Article 128 of the Constitution, however, the qualifications, appointments, duties, rights and obligations, monthly and allowances, and other matters of nature are regulated by law. In addition, it is necessary to draw by law the framework of authority, the general principles and principles on the subject should be set in the law. The arrangement, which gives the administration uncertain powers, is a violation of the rule of non-transmittance of law enforcement. A transparent, open to access to individuals should be set up in accordance with the general principles and rights of law by avoiding subjective and uncertain practices. It is also important to keep information and documents available. This information should not be served in any group, congregation, or other parallel formations, but should be noted that the security investigation does not turn into a security service tool. See, my dear friends, no one can be considered guilty until Article 38/4 of our Constitution is firmly established. The causality of innocence states that until the verdict is finalized, the suspect is not to be treated as guilty and not to be tainted. One of the most important principles of modern monetary criminal law is the principle of the individuality of crime and punishment. He may be held accountable for the verbs, and no one should be punished for their crimes, including those closest to him, and by law, it should be. Anyone who is close to him or his wife is involved or guilty should not be involved in a security investigation, which should be strictly observed. Now, as the PDA, I would like to bring to your attention some of the articles and jokes that we would like to correct on the proposal of the law: there is uncertainty in the content of the third article of its proposed law. Other than the Ministry of National Defence, the General Staff, the General Staff, the Police, the Coast Guard, the institution is the National Intelligence Agency, which is in charge of intelligence activities other than the Coast Guard. The expression "intelligence agencies" used as plural suggests that it was founded in the presidential office, which was not a legal basis for a period of time. It would be very helpful if the law was more specific in this regard. Again, the first joke of the 5th article is not in line with the literature of the unit of the 5th article, which we think will be more appropriate in the intelligence units of the relevant institutions. In the first joke of the 6th article, it is likely that it is the head of the Security Directorate Intelligence Bureau. In particular, it has been wrong to keep the General Command of the Gendarme, which has the largest archive and intelligence on the PKK, outside the system. Therefore, the introduction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (I.A.), instead of the declaration of the Security General Directorate, will satisfy the lack. In Article 8 (3), the national defence, national security, public security, public order and economic security intelligence activities should not be kept out of view that information obtained as part of the appointment can not be passed on to the person. Because the person who cannot be appointed for the cause of the bet must be able to learn the name and reason. As the Good Party Group, we hope and hope that these suggestions will be taken into consideration in the General Assembly, but we also know that they will not be taken into account. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly again and pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0184par0025	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Umit Yilmaz is a Düzce MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0185par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Proposal of Security Investigation and Archive Research Act. I salute you and the great Turkish nation following us at the head of their television. Honorable MPs are obliged to protect the interests of the state in the second paragraph of Article 7 of Section 2 of State Officers' Law 657 and to protect the interests of the state in any case. They cannot perform any action that violates the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Turkey, endangering the security of the Republic of Turkey, which violates the independence and integrity of the country. They can't participate in any action, grouping, grouping, or association, they can't help them, it says, but many who participated in or infiltrated a treasonous coup attempt or supported a state on July 15, 2016 have been seen to be officers of Law number 657, even though they were sworn in accordance with the Law of State Officers. In recent years, the GERPs who have infiltrated the state have made various attempts to harm our country and to take over the country's important institutions to change constitutional order. With the organizations they've placed inside the state, they've first removed those who love their homeland from institutions by various countermeasures or convicted them with false evidence and accusations. With the 2010 referendum, these traitors who took control of HSYK have taken action to overthrow the legitimate government. These bloodthirsty traitors attempted to strike gold at our country on July 15th in a treasonous coup, causing 251 sons to become martyrs and thousands to reach the rank of veterans. Praise be to Allah that these moves to tear our country apart by the terror of the great Turkish nation have been avoided by the armed forces, the law enforcement and those in our nation who love their country, the nation who love their country, and the 2023 leaders have begun to rise up stronger and move towards the goal of Turkey. Another of the requirements for security investigation and archive research is that it is strategically important for national security; it will be applied to personnel who will work in projects, facilities and services. The momentum that technology has gained in recent years has also led to increased technology espionage, advanced technical staff and project thefts. According to the decision to domesticate and increase production of the defence industry that has been launched in recent years, locality rates in the defence industry have reached 70 per cent. These breakthroughs have also caused the defence industry to become a target by a number of environments. A national security review of the personnel working in the public-special defense industry, which is working together, has become necessary to include them in the security investigation. In this arrangement, security investigations have been conducted by members of Public-Special Co-operation and the national defence industry. Dear lawmakers, we've all been through our country's ordeals together. And you'll appreciate that the main thing to do is to do our part as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey so that we don't have to go through the same problems again. As far as geography is concerned, our country will be attacked from the outside and from the inside as well as from the past. The greatest weapon of external forces that wants to prevent our country from becoming a major force in its territory is the collaborators inside who want to prevent it from reaching its goal to become a leading country. In particular, it is clear to everyone how these collaborators, such as the Turkish Armed Forces, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice, infiltrated the country's institutions that constitute the backbone, until the July 15th traitorous coup attempt. It's up to us to prevent any more of our country's hiring officers so it doesn't have to go through the same kind of trouble. It's up to us to stop terrorist organizations from infiltrating the state. Because what we've experienced in the past has shown that the members of this organization can take on every political view and every religious identity to take over the state. It is foolishness beyond purity and democratism to seek goodwill behind the formations that seek to take over the country's institutions. Whether it's in the form of a religious community, whether it's in the image of a democratic civil society, all of these formations, which we can't express, are known for their connections and intentions with the outside forces, the foundations that want to weaken our country. It's not just a reading of intent. Because these external forces and foundations clearly express their ulterior motives toward our country. The most effective way to prevent our country's institutions from falling into the hands of these in-house collaborators is to conduct a strong archive search and security investigation into the recruitment and rise. A number of regulations have been made in recent years for the security and archive research of public officials. Following the July 15th treasonous coup attempt, an arrangement with the State of Emergency, the Constitutional Court, has been dismissed. As part of the security investigation and archive investigation, the departments and the public institutions and institutions' archives and electronic information processing centers, which have been issued under the new regulation of October 18, 2018, have added to the decision that there is no room for information and documentation of investigations carried out by 4/12/2004. However, the Constitutional Court has once again decided to call off the appeal by CHP. After reviewing the Constitutional Court's cancellation decision on 19/2/2020, it has been seen that the cancellation of the Constitution has been carried out on the 13th, 20 and 128th Articles of the Constitution. According to Article 128 (AYM) of the Constitution, which led to the grounds for the cancellation of the AYM (AYM), the article (2) has been decided that there is a need for a separate legal arrangement for security investigation and archive research. Reasons point out that the Constitutional Court has not fully established the rights to the protection of personal data and guarantees to ensure the safety of personal data, according to Article 20 of the Constitutional Court's decision as the basis for the cancellation. According to the AYM, information and documents on the subject of research have been decided not to be properly regulated in the current legal framework as to who will be responsible for the investigations, for how long they will be kept, for how long they will be kept, and for how long they will not be deleted. Dear lawmakers, these developments are the main reason for drafting the proposal of the law, the establishment of a security investigation and archive research system in a fair and impartial manner, taking into account the grounds of the legal vacuum in the Supreme Court's cancellation verdicts. When we look at the proposal of the law, the Constitutional Court has been held as a fundamental law, considering the annulments. Under the basic law, basic principles for the investigation of security investigation and archive research and the use of the data to be made, who the investigations will be done, what information and documents will be used in, how these information will be used, which authorities will investigate and investigate, the assessment commission, the data security, and the times for deletion and deletion of data are being organised. The measures for the use, protection, hiding, deletion, safety of personal data reached under the investigation have been set up, and criminal provisions have been provided in case of conflict. Of course, there were now some who made statements during the talks last week in terms of archive research and security investigations. Look, lawmakers, the system that brought this country into the July 15th process is not the presidential government system; it is the shortcomings of the parliamentary system that have been implementing it for years.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0186par0042	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0185par0043	The presidential government system, which we set up to address these shortcomings, we believe that from now on, it will prevent those who want to take over the state, those who point the weapons taken by the nation's taxes to their citizens, and I say we support the law proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0186par0045	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Ankara MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioglu, ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0187par0048	Mr. President, our dear citizens, wherever you hold them, there is a regulation that does not comply with the principles of the legal state, the provisions of the Constitution that regulate rights and freedoms, but we are forced to discuss this bill of tagging, which will affect the future of millions of citizens because we are faced with a government that has already broken the constitutional order at every turn. The security investigation and archive research were committed after July 15th, during the State of Emergency, after the State of Emergency a part of which was permanentized, and this practice continued to be unsupervised and transparent until AYM (AYM) decided to cancel on March 2020. What was the purpose during that time? Clearly, the goal was to complete public political staffing for the construction of the new regime. Now, a legal cover will be put on the category of impropriety created by such vague concepts as communication, action union, participation in a demonstration, unionism, some books, reading newspapers, some thoughts, and their actions will make it both easier and legal. Yes, with the security investigation, their life views and lifestyles could become a security issue. An unmarried woman, Kurd, Alevi, trans, being dragged into crime as a child, may well be a reason to reject the moral norms of those who will one day conduct these studies because they do not conform to the world's views. Look, it's the same mentality when you first ban tens of thousands of people from public service with the KHKs on the grounds that you support the organization within the state because of the suspension of members of the Smiley congregation. For obscure reasons, from opening a bank account to being whose sister-in-law, I don't know, people have been branded as unconcerned citizens. Just because of their critical ideas, people were added to the KHK with the lists prepared by their business managers, and their lives were turned upside down by these arbitrary decisions. Because the verdicts were confidential, he didn't even know why he was rejected unless people filed a lawsuit. He was under suspicion that this had been heard around him, and as if being left in a difficult position financially, he was faced with social exclusion. In the proposal prepared, each item is so clear that when it's implemented, it's clear that the victims will continue to be the same. The procedures and bases of the application have been explicitly left to the regulations of abuse. How the evaluation commission will be formed, who will be involved in the investigation, how the evaluation criteria will be determined, how the information and documents obtained will be used; none of this is clear. It is unclear whether individuals are able to object to such information. I don't know how the data will be deleted at the end of the time limit. We don't know if there's going to be an inspection to prevent abuse of authority. If this proposal becomes legal, the responsibility for punishment is personal, and no one can be held accountable for the verb of another. The principle of the matter will be officially suspended. When we say we all need justice, you ignore us by being drunk of power. Although there's no vote at the moment, so there's no one to ignore us. If there's another quick vote, it'll be replaced by the Presidential Court, no matter how it turns out. That's how we got this proposal for the law right now. Look how Suleyman Noble suddenly remembered the principle of personality of this crime last week. Yes, according to the government, if a young AKP bureau official makes large fortunes and corruption at an early age, it's a personal crime, but we know from the examples so far that if your parents were involved in the union, in democratic mass organizations, then you're not a criminal, you're a criminal family. It is clear that, along with this offer, there is a vagueness between loyalty to the law, to the Constitution, and loyalty to those in power. People who break the law are being held irresponsible, as are those who are forced to have beer. Look, an example shows you very clearly whether it is loyalty to the law, the Constitution, or loyalty to you: Here are the penalties given to Özgür Gündem newspaper. 23. In the main case of Özgür Gündem, the Heavy Penal Court has announced the newspaper's decision on the grounds of 21 years in prison in total for Kemal Sancılı, Editor-in-Chief İnan Kızkaya, Editor-in-Chief Zana Kaya and Editor-in-Chief Eren Keskin. The court advocates a national understanding of human rights in a motivated verdict. The state tradition and the perspective of the Turkish state, which dates back to hundreds of years, has always lived in the state of life. It says that it has been built by its motto. And then it says: "Can you write an article, rather than the concept of human rights, which the Turkish government has taken for granted to themselves? Can you write such a court order? Can you write an article? But you know what this is called? The institutionalisation of fascism is the name of it, and its uniqueity is the same as the decision of the court. And we've seen people shout "fuck human rights." In the 90s. When I was working at the Human Rights Association, I saw police officers shouting, "Fuck human rights." What's the difference between you and the '90s? Now, very sensitive to the coup, gentlemen, I'll tell you, the coup is not only done by soldiers, it's done by civilians, it's done by the hands of civilians, just like it did with our Co-Chairs, our deputies, our mayors, on November 4th. That's why your sensitivity is not your sensitivity. There is no other sensitivity, fear, or sensitivity, such as the basis of the Security Law, which has no meaning but your own safety. Yes, another example: Sevil Rojbin Cetin, member of the HDP Local Governing Board. You remember, there was an attack on him using a police dog, and he was treated for days. We brought this up to the Parliamentary Human Rights Commission, and we got our answer from the Parliamentary Human Rights Commission. The Human Rights Commission has only responded to the Governorate's statement, and the Governorate says that he was trying to jump off the balcony, that Seville Rojbin Cetin and his right foot were prevented from escaping, and he was immediately controlled by his operations dog trainer. Is that how it happened? If Sevil Rojbin Cetin was trying to escape from the balcony, and a Parliamentary Committee of Human Rights was only asking the Governor if he wasn't asking the governor's office, if he wasn't having a single conversation with the victim, could his name be the Human Rights Commission? No way. We saw it, and we saw it very well on September 12th, just as I told you about the 90s. Those who jump from their own safety buildings, those who get their heads bashed in the walls, those who even kill themselves. What's the difference between you and the coup d'état of September 12th? So, this is all really the truth of Turkey. Yes, do you know what was written the next day on the headline in the '90s when Özgür Gündem was bombed? This fire burns all of us. Yes, this fire, this fire you're making, it burns us all and keeps on burning us all. Finally, our beloved Deputy Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, our deputy, who is running to everyone's problems, holding a mirror to all your injustices. The opposite you see in that mirror, you don't like it, you don't like it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0188par0061	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0187par0062	That's why you've dropped your proxy and given us that day as a black mark on this House. I was with him that morning when he snuck in, when he was set up. My door was tried to be closed, it was blocked, there were 154 officers in that Capitol, and I'm so curious to see how they all look at me. And I'm very curious to see how Parliamentary President is going to look at me in the same way because they signed such a lie that when Omar Faruk took the deputy out of there, we left with slogans, and they all had video recordings. And our Regent was really too much for this Parliament. I'm asking, and I'm really curious: couldn't we all be united behind a person who's been through so much injustice, with all the Parliament, opposition and conscience? I'm so sorry behind the door. Was it just going to be done? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, excuse me, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0189par0066	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0187par0067	Yeah, I'm just so sorry behind the door. It wasn't meant to be. I'm sorry too, I'm really sorry about this whole Parliament thing. I'm so sorry that we didn't stick together that day, and I'm really sorry that no one was able to cure poverty, injustice, but I'm also hopeful. I am hopeful of the women of this country, of their youth, of their people who believe in freedom, and we promise our people that we will not leave this Parliament without a fight, without a fight, as you have sent the Colorless Faruk MP, just as the Color of Omer Faruk has gone away. My respects. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0190par0071	We thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Nevşehir MP Faruk Sarıaslan. Here you go, Mr. Yellowaslan.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0191par0074	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As the Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal was drafted by the Constitutional Court, the grounds for the cancellation were never considered. Article 128 of the Constitution states that the qualifications of officers and other public officials are regulated by law by their appointment, their duties and their authority. The framework of the regulatory authority left to the administration must be drawn by law, general principles and principles on the subject must be set in the law. However, this arrangement, which gives the administration uncertain powers, violates the principle of non-transmittance authority. This offer you've made, it lacks the legal basis we count. What crimes will be taken on the basis of the investigation into the person's criminal record? He could have a criminal record without minor injury, theft, insult. These things need to be described clearly and clearly in the law. The first joke of Article 38 of the Constitution states that no one can be punished for a crime which is not considered a crime. In his third joke, the rule of legality of crime and punishment is put into place by law. This principle, based on the preconceived idea of forbidden actions, aims to ensure basic rights and freedoms. In a certain certainty, it must be known by individuals which verbs which legal sanctions are attached to which verbs and the consequences of their actions should be preemptive. In this bill you've brought in, which of the crimes will involve a security investigation, if a crime has expired, will they be evaluated or not? The principle of legality, regardless of which it is prepared, is ignored. Unfortunately, a case has been filed against a person, and even if the person has been convicted, it is immediately filed by the government. The archive research also determines whether or not the person will be appointed or not, based on the subjective assessment of the administration based on these chips. This proposal is also in violation of Article 2 of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights of Europe under Article 90 of the Constitution. In this joke, everyone accused of a crime is innocent until his guilt is legally stable. You're ignoring the purity of your offer. This is also contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights for the protection of personal data and privacy of private life and Article 38/3/3 of the Constitution, which maintains the right to not be tainted. It is the government's obligation and responsibility to protect people's right to remain unstained. The right not to be smeared, the right to be investigated or prosecuted for suspicion of crime, the fact that honor, honor and dignity of the person who has been charged with this action has not been harmed; the failure to damage the innocence of the person who has not yet been judged in society; any words that will condemn a person to the innocence of the person who has not yet been convicted, any actions such as literature or news. The law has been defined as a failure to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, the 5th article of this law you have brought is a happy item in the house. Look, what you're saying is that in this 5th article, the quality of security investigation is included in the first degree of blood and relatives of a person in the first degree, in terms of civil law, the first degree of blood relatives, parents and children; the first degree of sexual relations is the mother and father of the person you married. Look what you're doing when you bring in this law. A kid gets a job, he gets an interview, he gets a job, he gets a job, you start a security investigation about this kid, you do an archive search -- what year is it -- if any of his parents commit a crime, you're never gonna get a job. Or because his father had taken a job, started, had a child, grew up, had a certain age, committed a crime, for example, a police chief, and his child committed a crime, you will not make him Chief of Police. And I'll tell you what's even more dire: one person gets a job, very successful, and he's going to have to be promoted, while you're not going to raise the person who should be raised because of a crime committed by his parents. So what you're saying is that here, in debt law, my friends in law, they know, they're a liability. So even if you don't owe it, if you signed it that year, you're all responsible. In debt law, it's called "integrating responsibility." You're bringing a new concept to criminal law. The concept you're bringing in is an integrating responsibility for criminal law. So if one person's parents committed a crime, you can't hold the person responsible for it. Even more gravely, you cannot hold the married person responsible for the crime of his parents. Now, if this law is passed by you, we need to add a clause that says that whoever gets a warrant is going to get married from the court, and he's going to do a security investigation and an archive search, and then he's going to marry the next person. Now, does your conscience accept that? Is that in harmony with the morals of society? He accepts neither conscience nor morality of society. And the worst part is, that's not acceptable in terms of criminal law. In criminal law, there's a principle of the personality of crimes. No soul is responsible except for what it has done, and you cannot blame it for what it has done. Look, this, you know what's gonna happen? I don't blame anyone for accusing, I don't blame them for digging up the past; I'm pretty sure a large majority of the people in the AK PARTY have a tag for it. What sense of justice will we have if your children or your children are not hired tomorrow when the power changes and you're hiring? In the seventh article of Article 38 of our Constitution on crime and punishment, the honorable lawmakers say the responsibility for punishment is personal. Again, in the second part of the Turkish Penal Code No. 5237, titled "Esaslars" (), the responsibility is personal in Article 20 (Presponsibility for punishment). No one can be held responsible for someone else's verb. If you pass this law this way, it will be annulled in the Constitutional Court because you are acting against Articles 90, 38/3 and 20 of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 6/8 of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, unusual and illegal investigations have never united society in any country, or even created dramatic hostility, contrary to what is expected. I'm sorry to say that with the laws you've brought, you're moving away from justice and the state of law, turning the country into a state of law, not a state of law. We all need to know that when we pass these laws, we have to take authority from the nation, legitimacy from the law. You're breaking a law that has no legitimacy. In your eighteen years of power, you're taking the country back, not forward, but backwards, because it's called "reform. " We have to create a country based on the rule of law -- for the development and peace of our country -- on the rule of law, respect for human rights, on the basis of separation of forces and secularism, protecting fundamental rights and freedoms. Then we can improve and improve the country. Instead of that understanding, you're trying to silence the people who don't know the law, who don't respect court decisions, who don't know the principle of separation of forces, who don't know the principle of separation of forces, who use education out of science and mind, who are religious and spiteful, who are dissociating society, who are fighting democracy and human rights, who are drawing, who aren't talking, who are trying to silence the prison pressure, by preventing the development of creative, free people.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0192par0086	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0191par0087	As if not enough, you try to look cute in certain circles by removing the Ataturk (Ataturk) of state engagements, and the Andiz (Adiz) during the opening period, so as to look cute in the mindset of Emevi. You're opening up, you're opening up. You start in Oslo, you don't close when you say Northern Iraq, Syria, and when you don't, you go to close the party. You have to remember, you're wrong on wrong, wrong on wrong. You should know that two wrongs don't make a right. You're making people pay for all the mistakes you've made. Dear lawmakers have been revoking and revulsing in recent years. A pasha, a general, going to a boathouse, going to a shuttle, with all the money you and this nation have given him.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0192par0090	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0191par0091	There he goes with the taxes of my people, and with the wagons of money, and kneels before him whom he calls "she." I don't see that in a Turkish general. You're either going to quit your generality or you're going to become the sheik's disciple. You can't be a general and a disciple of the sheik. The Turkish people won't allow it. These phases go by, two years, three years go by quickly, but you must not make the public pay again. We've seen them live, we've seen them. Here the Ministry of Interior is connected to the gendarmes, the Police are connected. You AK PARTY have to make a decision. Are the people elected by the state's votes to rule this country, and the disciples of sheikhs and priests will rule this country? My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit05spe0193par0095	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0193par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 68th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the negotiations of Law Proposal 220. The commission is in place. Speaking for political party groups on the first part of the 220th Law Proposal was completed. Now, let's move on to the talks on behalf of the department. First speaker on behalf of him, Mr. Behic Steel. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0194par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I give you all my compliments. I made a personal promise. Dear MPs, the Constitution is described as the highest legal text for a state that includes the basic order of the state, community relations with the state, individual relations, rights and freedoms, political rights and freedoms and the whole state organization. Besides the Constitution, there are laws issued by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey through legislation, but there are also international texts, which are higher than the Constitution, which are lower than the Constitution under the provisions expressed in the 90th article of our Constitution. Therefore, it is essential that all political parties, members of the community, act in accordance with these provisions as a property of the legal state, are one of the prerequisites of our social peace, sovereignty, independence. Unfortunately, here we discussed the Constitution, discussed the laws, discussed the Civil Code, and were reheated before the General Assembly last week, where the Security Investigation and Archive Research Proposal, which was rejected by the majority of votes in the General Assembly, was reheated and put before the General Assembly. It's impossible to accept. This is the most important flare that we're getting out of the state of law. It's our duty to remind you that we, again, have to put our legislative activities in that framework with respect to the basic principles of the state of law, the rules of law. However, in a state, the majority in the Republic of Turkey, having everything they say, in fact, is the greatest weakness of that state. Because the most important rule of democracy, rule number one, is the right of the majority to govern. Naturally, we accept that, but the protection of the rights of the few, the opposition, is one of the essential conditions of democracy. Unfortunately, these have been violated, broken the law, broken the rules of democracy, principles, institutions. Thus, after a major legal massacre, we are discussing Proposal No. 220. Dear lawmakers, it's not a week in Turkey that there's been an incident that's really bothering society, polarizing it and pushing it to extremes, that's an act of hostility against each other. One of them is another incident that happened the other day. They talk about it, we travel all over the provinces, we travel through the counties, but there's one thing across the community: I want to stress that we're facing a general poverty here. Farmers, tradesmen, civil servants, peasants, all are miserable; production has been weakened, unemployment, inflation, expensiveness, poverty has increased; people have increased their anxiety to maximum, and especially in the pandemic process, there is no authority, no authority, no authority. So, in a structure like this, what we're most concerned with is the bread of the people, the unemployment, the struggle with inflation, there must be some actions to make our citizens comfortable, and there should be dictating to the problems of the citizens.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0195par0012	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0194par0013	Mr. President, thank you. That's what we expect from the government. But unfortunately, they don't talk about how 128 billion dollars in the Central Bank evaporated, or the amount of over 600 billion dollars that went to the interest lobby in 18 years. Here, I call upon the government to come together to comfort our citizens with policies. As I finish my words, I pay all my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0196par0018	The second word on behalf of the individuals is Mr. Abdullah Güler. Here you go, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0197par0021	Dear President, I have made a pledge on the first chapter of our Security Investigation and Archives Law Proposal of 220 rows, on behalf of myself. I hereby salute our beloved nation and our great coven. As a lawyer, I'd like to celebrate the Day of Lawyers of all our colleagues who fought for justice and justice on the basis of the Day of April 5th, which we celebrated yesterday. Honourable MPs, I'd like to refer to a few articles at the point of the Constitutional compliance of our current Law Proposal 220 rows. In particular, according to the 48th article of our Constitution, everyone has the freedom to work and contract in any area he wishes. Our government has also commissioned measures to improve the life level of employees, to protect employees and unemployed people, to support work, to create an economic environment capable of preventing unemployment, and to ensure working peace. In the 70th article of our Constitution, every Turk has the right to enter public service. No distinction can be observed in the service, except what the task requires. The decree is also given. The Law of State Officers defines the principle of righteousness as entering public services, moving forward and rising within the classrooms, placing the end of the mission on the merit system, and establishing the security of state officials in implementing this system with equal opportunities. This arrangement also points to three basic principles - integrity, equality, and freedom. Highly valued MPs, on the other hand, in the first part of the 129th Article of our Constitution, the obligation of officers and public officials to act by upholding the Constitution and laws. In addition, the Law No. 657 included this obligation of loyalty, as well as the obligations of neutrality and commitment to the state of public officials. It is also natural for public servants to be sought out for a number of stricter attributes and some restrictions for people representing the state under the obligation of loyalty, neutrality and commitment to the state and who will be assigned to certain public duties, which are sensitive to national security. In this way, the requirements and restrictions envisioned in the laws are intended to ensure that public service is carried out effectively and in a healthy manner. Due to the recent painful experiences of terror attacks on our country, the aims of terrorist organizations carrying out these attacks, the nature of the secret methods they used, and the coup attempt on July 15, 2016, the need for a number of special circumstances in the public office, especially for those who will be assigned to national security, and for those who will be appointed to public office, given the fact that the majority of members of the armed terrorist organization is a public official. It is, of course, possible that the administration would bring in rules that reveal the fundamental framework of law and archive research in the security investigation and the investigation of people who would be subject to public duties. In this framework, there will be a security investigation and archive investigation of the first article of our proposed law. The scope of archive research has been determined with Article 4. Archive research has drawn a framework of whether the person's criminal record is still wanted by law enforcement, whether or not there is any claim on the person. The issues under Article 5 and the security investigation have been detailed. In the last article of this article, ▪ Security investigation is included in the nature of the task, including the first degree of blood and relatives. I would also like to state that the verdict will be issued with a motion. The 6th article was explained by which units will conduct the security investigation and archive investigation. This security investigation will be carried out by the head of the National Intelligence Agency, the Police General Directorate and local property administrations. The 7th article is very important. And here, with a motion, we raise the number of current evaluation commissions to 5, and we bring to this particular point the Investigation Board, internal control, and the absolute membership in the evaluation commission of structures within the public institution, which specializes in this matter. In particular, the 7th article is referred to the evaluation commission established within the institution and within the institution and within the body of units tasked with security investigations and archive research, which does not contain any comment on whether or not it will be appropriate for civil service or public duties.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0198par0027	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0197par0028	The evaluation commission presents objective and grounds assessments of the data passed to him in writing to the supervisor, and when asked by the courts, this information is presented. I have shared these issues with the General Assembly in the first part of this proposed law. I salute our High General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0199par0032	Now, we begin the question-answer process for 15 minutes. Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0200par0034	Mr. President, we're living a one-man regime, unfortunately, an empire of fear. Our country, which was crowned with the republic after our struggle for national salvation, is sadly worn down. The Law on Collectives of Ruling Amme Acquisitions has submitted to Parliament the Law on Changes in Some Laws. The farmer's debt is inadmissible, with the demand for changes in nine different laws, including institutional taxes. The loan our farmers get from their agricultural loan co-ops is $8 billion,260 million. When the farmer is stuck in debt like this, those who don't support agriculture and the manufacturer don't hear screaming. We do not agree to impose interest cruelty on farmers who owe loans to agricultural loans. According to the proposal, the interest on the loan is increased from 11 per cent to 18 per cent. From 5% to configuration...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0199par0037	Mr. Girgin...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0201par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. According to DİSK data, 177,000 workers were laid off in 2020 under the pretext of code 29. The public code 29 is a bleeding wound in the working life of the worker, known as the code 29 and dissolution of the employee's contract of employment on the grounds that it does not comply with the rules of morality and good will under Article 25/II of the Employment Law. The workers who were laid off with the code 29 are unable to receive severance and notice. Workers with code 29 are unable to benefit from the unemployment benefit fund and unemployment allowance. This method by which some ill-intentioned employers resort to the rights of seniority and reporting compensation is also misused to break the ban on layoffs in Covid-19. In addition, this material is processed into the employee record, which makes it difficult for workers to find employment. The code 29 must be immediately legalised against persecution and opportunism must be prevented. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0202par0041	Mr. Keven...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0203par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. When we look at the number of inoculations, right now, the number of people with the second dose is 7 million, 192,000, which is about 1 tenth of the population that should be vaccinated. Right now, nearly a million teachers are waiting for a vaccine, so be kind! The village and neighborhood chiefs I visited recently are part of the filtration team, they're monitoring the inoculation process, they're following the pandemic, but they're not part of the immunization program. Unfortunately, the power uses the chiefs as guinea pigs in the fight against the pandemic. That's not a vaccine policy. The Ministry of Health must immediately inoculate 1 million teachers and include the chiefs and other staff members of the filament team in the inoculation programme immediately. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0204par0045	Mr. Gökcal...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0205par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. Longkaş, Emir, Yeşak and other villages in the region are under threat of quarry, including other Insu and Değirmençay in Mersin Yenişehir district. I was with my countrymen this morning. Our peasants are resisting this project that will plunder 97.5 hectares, where the NGOs are with our villagers. I wonder: What does AKP hear from Mersin, and from the heavenly villages of Mersin? We will continue to fight against the drilling of this wonder of nature, the need of our peasants to live on the sound of dynamite, and the opening of our nature to the ranta. We will not let our villages be pursued by this quarry that will slaughter our nature, end agriculture and rural life in the region. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0206par0049	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0207par0050	Mr. President, our people are unemployed, without money. The number of young people who give up hope of finding employment is increasing day by day. In our country, which the AKP and its leaders cannot manage, only the court has no problem finding jobs. Each of them is a few jobs, the lives of those with plenty of smart seats, and the truth of the people is completely separate. Young people hope to take a KPSS test, and when it comes to settling down, hope is in vain. It's impossible to find work in a country where college graduates set an unemployment record, where young people with not one but a few diplomas are out of work, where the most successful young people have fled abroad, even in the stomach of a lion. In particular, middle school graduates who are in a difficult situation also have a request. They want the KPSS to be built every year. We're prepping for exams, but with two years apart, our preparations are wasted. There are demands for exams every year. And, of course, from the backs of poor people who don't think of these exams as a source of income.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0206par0053	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0208par0054	In the plague, we endured 50,000 cases a day, and the number of deaths exceeded 200. The immunizations of teachers have yet to be completed at the national educational institutions, which are a very important part of the contagion. Since we're going to continue to study face-to-face, we must assign our health workers to the schools to determine early detection of our sick cubs here and to determine if the school rules of the pandemic are being observed. In other risky groups, officials, such as public transport workers, managers, tollbooth workers, need to be vaccinated early. Again, hairdressers and barbers must work closely, face-to-face and without masks. We need to inoculate these as quickly as possible. The Tokyo Olympics are coming up, and we need to get 100 of our athletes into the vaccine program already. Again, while the professional leagues continue, we need to inoculate our professional athletes in this league right now. President of the Football Federation...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0206par0056	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0209par0057	Mr. President, farmers in the village of Odaköy in the District of Kudıklı, my constituency district of Afyonkarahisar Province, are able to use the deceleratorship from the Köreen Water Dam for 150 per cent. If it's drying, it's watering for $140 a pop. The village's land is 4,000 per cent, so the majority is paying $140. Everyone wants to get water from the watering dam, which is justly worth 60 lira. Let them return to the closed system and receive an indoor irrigation fee. Even if it is turned into a closed system, the villages of Daylı, Dodurga, Odaköy, Alagöz, Alacami can also be used in the District of Sanduklı. Again, Molfü Tea, which passes through the village of Saltiklı, in the District of Sanduklı, is also spreading poison. It threatens human and animal health, nature. The villagers want an immediate solution.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0206par0058	Mr. Cloud? No. Mr. Erbay...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0210par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. There's no law in a country, there's no safety of lives and property in that country. Therefore, the most important element in modern democracies is the rule of law. However, justice and law cannot prevail in a country where the defence, one of the three legs of the legal system, is oppressed, sought to be silenced, interfered with the bar. We built the greatest palace of justice in Europe. It does not bring us law and justice to boast. You can't build the law by building concrete, you can't build the rule of law, you can't build the security of law. We will never give up our fight for the rule of law and justice to bring our country to the level of modern, democratic, legal states. We're going to build a country where the law is superior. I celebrate the Day of Lawyers on April 5 of my colleagues, who have resisted injustices, oppression and unlawfulness for the sanctity of the defense, who have fought for the rule of law.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0206par0062	Thank you. Mr. Commission, please.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0211par0064	Mr. President, thank you very much. It's not about the law, it's not about the law, it's not about the law. To put it on the record, Mr. Gunpowder talked about the Agriculture Loan Co-operatives. Mr. Girgin expressed a petition of the workers' contract concerning the annulment according to Article 29. Mr. Keven said there were 7 million in love. I need to mention something about that inoculation. Turkey is one of the six most vaccinated countries in the world right now. There's only one England that's in our position in terms of population, one of the most people who's ever done it. Others have more populations like America, more like Brazil than us. I'd like him to be on the record. Mr. Gökcal has mentioned a quarry, so let's report it to the authorities. We don't know what it is, so let's investigate it and demand it done. Mr. Gaytancıoğlu has expressed his services and demands for unemployment. Mr. Adıl is also giving his views on pandemics. Mr. Koksal is the watering problem in Afyon, which is really a lot to talk about in Turkey. I hope there's a solution. Mr. Erbay has also made a commitment to law and justice, which is partly relevant to our law. I'm known for the time being, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, that we're all here for the law -- we're all here for the law -- and I'd like to share the brief with the General Assembly again. You know, this law came to the attention of the Constitutional Court after the annulment of Law 4045. Last year at the Commission, after long negotiations, we agreed on his status with the current General Assembly. And since last week, we've been talking about the law again. The concept of a security investigation and the concept of a security investigation is on the agenda of all governments. There are two defining questions: One is that when people are in public service, when they're in employment, when they're objective, they're based on integrity. The second important issue, which states have noted, is that security investigations of those who will be employed in the public are the basic view that those involved in terrorist organisations do not exist in specific high-level tasks. It's the same in almost every country. Notice that in our Constitutional Court's annulment, it has made it clear that the state can conduct a security investigation into public employment. We've brought up this proposal to meet the terms of the Constitutional Court's annulment. I mentioned it while Gene was here, discussing the general. We have some important assurances here. For one thing, in this new order, the General Assembly's proposal for this law will not give the police the final decision on the people's employment. Based on the facts they've prepared, the commission will decide over the reports they've made, the top supervisor of every institution. The police will present their findings, but the commission will be the authority and the authority to make the final decision in this matter. Honestly, I care about that. A second important arrangement, previously a security investigation, archive research, untapped, uncounted, with this proposal of law, has been clearly determined to conduct security investigations, archive research. That's what the local property chief, governor and the governors, law enforcement and intelligence agencies will do. What we consider a general guarantee is that the general council's commendations, both security investigation reports and security investigation reports will be eliminated after two years, under any circumstances. In fact, it's a big decision, a guarantee. People are about to be evaluated in public employment. Needless to say, people's right to appeal to the judiciary is also seen as important security. If you think you're being victimized on the review boards with misdeeds and statements from the police, you have the right to ask for a mistrial. We're bringing in a few degrees of security. I've had some objections here, and I have important motions about that right now, whether it's with a relative or with a parent-wife; there are proposals that are being made. With these motions accepted, I think there will be much more important steps taken in the law. I wish the law good luck. A busy, exhausting study awaits us. I hope we'll do a proper work on our House today and tomorrow, and we'll complete the law. I don't have to tell you anything else, Mr. Engin Altay is already a lawyer, and the Constitutional Court is clear, and it's clear after he's made the opposition objections. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0212par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. Congressmans, there are 3 motions on Article 1. The first two motions I read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the first article of the current Law Proposal, 220 rows, be removed from the proposal text. Yasar Tuğün Ayhan Gunty Necati Çiğli Ensar Aytekin Orhan Sumer Nihat Green Oya Ersoy Mahmut Toğrul Erol Katırcıoğlu Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki Diryet Dilan Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0213par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0212par0103	Mr. Nihat Yeşil is the first speaker of the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Green.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0214par0106	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute the General Assembly. A week ago, on March 31st, a general majority of the Parliament was rejected here by a proposal to go behind the Constitution again.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0215par0108	Where does it say there's a majority of Congress? Show me, show me where he wrote.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0214par0109	As a result, we were all here, and our members of the group have already made the necessary statements about this, but today you have taken the same law proposal back to the General Assembly. This is the Law Proposal for Security Investigation and Archive Research, an arrangement to eliminate law and integrity in public administration, which will create discrimination on the basis of thought, faith and political belief among public officials candidates. When Turkey had its basic, urgent problems, it needed to be resolved, however, our friends brought back to the General Assembly today, which had been held up for a year and a half. Dear friends, our country has narrow throats in every area. The third stage of the pandemic is coming in waves, and the number of cases continue to increase with your sense of mismanagement, while our economy swings towards an insurmountable point; while all this is happening, political power is just watching the growing problems. According to your own agenda, you continue to download unrelated proposals to the General Assembly. This bill we discussed today has been cancelled twice because it's contrary to the Constitutional Court. If you had adhered to the Constitution, you would not have brought this offer to Parliament today. Dear friends, our workers, our farmers, our industrialists, our workers, our workers, our health workers, our teachers, our teachers, our college graduates are at a disadvantage, while our industrialists can't produce, while our farmers' farms and tractors are being seized due to loan debts, while our tradesmen can't reach the end of the month, while our pensioners and non-appointed teachers and health workers lose hope for the future, while conditions are getting heavier every day in our country. In the last 20 months, four presidents of the Central Bank have served. Four TÜİK presidents have been replaced in the last three years. Because inflation and unemployment numbers are high, the dismissal of TİK heads does not solve inflation and unemployment. The fact that the president of the Central Bank is suspended because he raised interest does not improve the economy. You have to admit, that understanding has no use for our country. Every day you run away from these facts, our country continues to drift into the vortex. Dear friends, this bill is a clear sign that you continue to read what you know. You're writing the same thing down and bringing it to the General Assembly, regardless of the grounds the Constitutional Court has given in its annulment. If this proposal becomes legal, the only limit of being an officer will be loyalty to power, discrimination will be opened on the basis of the chips, and the sons of this country, which you have coded instead of the qualifications of the mission, will be denied the right to become officers. Our laws are already under way to conduct archive research and security investigations for the recruitment of our employees in critical professions, but you get up, you set up an evaluation commission, you make the state of obstruction of office based on intelligence, you cut in front of millions of young people who want to be officers in criminal cases that don't even consider them. You don't even put that commission on the basis of the law. You're trying to regulate a matter that needs to be regulated by the law. Dear friends, there's not a single government institution you haven't politicalized. You've opened the way for those whose loyalty you trust, instead of their integrity and integrity at every point in the state. We've brought this arrangement because of the danger. But it's strange that you're making his brother general ambassadors, making him minister to the person who's been under arrest for five years. In one country, justice must be distributed equally to everyone. There's no law, there's no justice, there's no action that's forbidden for someone else. If the public official acting on behalf of the executive staff is acting on behalf of the administration, the judiciary is responsible for eliminating this pleasure. Who do the courts judge for? He judges on behalf of the people. Let's sit down and talk straight. You're making the political climate more tense every day. Every day makes you look for the day before. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0216par0117	Complete.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0214par0118	Whether you're doing this consciously, it's unclear, but the will to make the law cannot be used so recklessly and arbitraryly. Look at the examples in history, no government that has been severed from the reality of society can survive, no government can sustain its continuity with power, weapons, intimidation, and intimidation of society. With this arrangement tomorrow, we all know that some of our young people will suffer in public hiring, but the goal is not to eat grapes, but to beat up the lace. Now, this is called pleasure, this is inescapable, it's called public power processing in accordance with the pleasure of power. With what conscience, with what wisdom, with what morality is it to associate information that is not even considered evidence in a criminal trial, to put it before the right of a citizen to take a job? Your 19-year-old government report card is in the middle, and your value of merit is obvious. How can we trust you? If it's not enough that you plug the person himself, you're taking his relatives into custody. It's called a double standard. This arrangement with political understanding will not do society any good. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0217par0123	Thank you. The second speaker on the same motions is Mr. Oya Ersoy, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0218par0127	Mr. President, I salute the General Assembly. Now first, what's the coup? I'd like to ask the MPs here in particular. The coup is illegal, trying to rule the people in a way that doesn't stand up to the people, doesn't take their legitimacy from the people. I'd like to remind you of the June 7 elections here, which means I'll renew the choice that I don't like the coup d'état. And it means not only that, but revenge on those who have lost power all by themselves. It means putting the HDP to the goal of the judiciary, the co-chairs, city councilmen, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, and mayors, as well as the one who was tortured in September 12th coup, put in prison again in your coup, and for us, resistance is to write the history of resistance against these coups. Yes, once upon a time, we saw ancient understandings that believed in appointing democracy as a burden on politics, as a hump, not an election. We did not say that it was your President-General and the people's elected mayors who were appointing trustees. Do you know what a coup is? It's a coup to try to run universities by appointing trustees against the will of university students, professors, who can't be chosen, who can't be chosen, who can't be chosen, who can't be chosen, who can't be chosen, who can't be chosen. The coup is to try to appoint trustees in person, and now you're going to... another, you're going to do it in the middle of the night. You're saying, yes, in the middle of the night, it's a single man's decision to dissolve the Istanbul Convention with his mind, the coup, despite the will of women. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Now you're saying, "Darbe, coup, coup." That's what you call the coup, the attempt to conceal your own coup and legitimize it. You're wrong, you'll never legitimize it; those days are over, and now everyone knows what you are. Now let's get back to this whole coup thing. Admirals, 104 people are coming together, publishing a statement. All of these things are actually in power. Aren't they behind you? What are you splitting up about? In the Kurdish problem, Syria policy, Middle East, Caucasus, what don't you agree on? Why don't you stop calling it "darbe" and tell us the background of this, and we'll sit down and discuss it. What's behind this that you don't get along with right now? Yes, and the way this bill was brought to the House is a coup. You've made the habit of ignoring the choice you don't like so much that you've brought back a law proposal that's often rejected in Congress, a law that's still a product of military coups, in accordance with its history and in a way that suits you. You know, that vote on March 31st, that vote is a slap by opposition to the arrogance, joy and size of being a majority, and you're ignoring it right now. What are you going to do, appoint trustees to the House? Close the HDP, close the Constitutional Court, close the Assembly, go and be an office clerk at the palace, but I'll tell you this, the group may not take your MPs and your group presidents as branch members. You're talking about security, go first, look inside yourself, look at your own staff. Once your employees are cleared of drug, corruption, bribery and embezzlement investigations, then bring this Security Investigation Law Proposal to us. In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the fortunes from Kastamonun to headquarters, which have taken place in the past few years, starting to work with the AKP's mayor himself. Again, explain to us what kind of business environment you have in this country when 45,000 university graduates are applying for a staff ad of 200 people.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0219par0134	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0218par0135	And those bales of euros, those congressmen's advisors, carried by relatives. What's behind the footage? There's more looting of public resources, blackmail, tenders, bribes. So, the biggest security problem in the country is this arrangement that you created yourself, and let's put it this way once again, it's going to turn around. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0219par0138	The motions of the same nature will be put to your votes... Y O L A M A
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0220par0141	Mr. President, we'd like to request a roll call before the same motions vote.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0219par0142	There's a roll call, and I'm going to do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Green, Mr. Erol, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Öztunç, Mr. Gaytancıoğlu, Mr. Erbay, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Sword, Mr. Bülbül, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Keven, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Sahin, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Sümer, Mr. Sümer. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. Ladies and gentlemen of the compasses, please do not leave the General Assembly. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 1. Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 64 MP Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal (2/2972) and Interior Commission Report (S. Number: 220) (X) [[Continue]] I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Security Investigation and Archive Research Act is in accordance with Article 1 of the Law Proposal, and I propose that the declaration be replaced with a statement. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Yasin Özturk Hüseyin Örs İsmail Şeşoğlu Muhammad Naci Cinisli Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0221par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0219par0162	Mr. Hussain Orris, Congressman of Tripoli, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0222par0165	Mr. President, I'd like to begin speaking with my compliments of the General Assembly. As we all know, last week's merger of the General Assembly was rejected as a result of a vote to negotiate the clauses of this proposal. We continue to discuss these substances today, despite the ruling that the proposal to which Turkey's Parliament of the National Assembly has been rejected -- for a year or so -- cannot be proposed on this issue. Now, of course -- there's just been a bit of a procedural debate here -- it's not exactly discussed, it's not discussed, but I'd like to express something about it. After what happened last week, our citizens are following this process from television, from the press. A voter from Tripoli also called me. What happened there? Overruled, then re-voted. So there was a disagreement about the vote of rejection and acceptance, so there was a situation like this. When I said it, my Trabzonian citizen said, "Tell me, Congressman, that your Parliament needs a VAR room." He made a statement like that. But first of all, dear friends, the reputation and reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is very important to us. I would like to address my friends here at the AK PARTY once again: Give up your understanding of the parliament, and respect the will of Parliament. I would also like to remind the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court that the responsibility of this Presidential Court is to prevent it from being compromised by the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which I would like to remind you of. Dear friends, our Tripoli has a very beautiful song: "Oy Tripoli,"/ Indoor tin boiler,/ in my days of sorrow,/ in my days of Ramazan." We have such a beautiful song. Next week we'll realize that Ramadan is a blessed month. Our woeful days are greater this year, and our troubled days are greater; our nation is in distress, and we will enter a troubled process of Ramadan. But my people in the area, especially Artvin, Rize, Tripoli, Giresun, have a shortage of about 200,000 tea makers, our manufacturers who are worth about a million. The tea season is opening, there's been some trouble last year because of the pandemic, and hopefully this time, this year, there won't be any problems, there'll be necessary measures about it, but I'd like to remind you that before tea season opens, there's a bonus for the price of tea, and this support bonus hasn't increased in the last six years, and whatever the wisdom is, it's 13 cents. In 2010, it was 11.5 cents, raised to 12 cents in 2011, so a quarter increased; a penny increased in 2016, 13 cents. 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, this non-proliferation bonus, which hopefully doesn't increase in this season, will also be reconsidered by considering the problems that the manufacturer has experienced in recent years, and it won't be insisted on the number of 13 cents in support, because this period is the period of fertilizer in tea, and there's a lot of trouble in the region, but when we look at last year, I'm saying that the price of fertilizer used in tea is 25 percent, so I'm saying that the difference between this year and this year is 25 per cent different than when the season starts -- our tea producer is not a victim before the season starts -- right after May, right after the start of our product -- right now -- the process -- right now -- and I'm saying that we want to have to take steps to call on the production of power. [[The voices, applause from the good party and CHP rows]] Dear friends, I have just begun my talk with a song that we love very much by Tripoli, but nowadays there are millions of Tripolinspanians in Tripoli, our constituents, who have come to love Tripoli, who have given their heart to Tripolinpor, who are willing to accept the color of bordo-blue.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0223par0172	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0224par0173	You started with poetry, end with song.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0222par0174	Mr. Salih, our Tripoli MP, is giving me the benefit of the doubt, but when he comes to Tripoli, let's be together in the square, where we can all discuss this matter together.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0225par0175	We'll come, we'll come.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0222par0176	Yeah, well, we're even getting trashed about Tripolispor.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0226par0178	I say challenge, Hajji, challenge me! Come in, sir. Let's go wherever you want.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0222par0179	TFF President Tripolispor made a statement threatening Tripolispor (TFF) after his application to FIFA (FIFA) through rights, law and justice.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0226par0180	We've given the answer, Hajji, we've given the answer.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0222par0181	We dealt with the tube guy, the tube guy's gone, and now he's got a showman in his place.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0227par0182	Five-alarm gang, five-alarm gang, Hajji.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0222par0183	No one can break the code to Tripolispor. This is where I warn TFF: When you make a statement about Tripoli, think about it not once, but 61 times. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0228par0186	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0229par0187	Mr. President, I've requested a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0228par0188	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0230par0191	Put it to an electronic vote.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0231par0192	There's been a disagreement, let's have an electronic vote.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0228par0193	There's a disagreement among the clerks; we're moving on to an electronic vote. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. There was a vote on the electronic device. There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to 60, we promise four of our friends in your place. Mr. Sumer, come in, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0232par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. In the village of Adana Kozan Doğanalani, our citizens are in great trouble. The Forest Business Authority has declared a large portion of the village's 14,000 acres to be forest quality. In this case, the village people who have been using the same house since their father had been accused of opening in the woods, and they were sentenced to economicly impossible punishments. Almost all villages in the village are accused of occupying the forest area, seven to 70 people are in foreclosure. It is also said that in our districts of Karaisalı, Kozan, Pozantı, Sarıçam, 2022, 2023, the rations of the trees were already distributed and began. In this time when our farmers, our peasants, are going through a very difficult time, our villagers have to deal with constant punishment and foreclosures, and with the beginning of the early segments, someone's getting an unfair profit. The Ministry and Forestry Management Administration officials...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0233par0204	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0234par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the commissioner: We're interviewing the Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal. Is it possible to prevent cult-bound admirals from serving in the army, and what actions are being done for the still-incumbent cult-bound admirals or admirals with turbans? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0235par0208	Mr. Çolakoglu...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0236par0209	Mr. President, the precious MPs, the 48-metre section of the Teacuma Bridge, which was built on the Filyos River in 1951, collapsed nine years ago today, on April 6, 2012, as a result of the natural disaster. In the case of nine years ago, 15 of our citizens who crossed the bridge during the collapse of the 48-metre section of the Seacuma Bridge fell to Filyos Tea and received the mercy of Hakk. Nine years later, our suffering remains as fresh as the first day. I ask for the mercy of God to our fellow citizens who have lost their lives in these events, and for the condolences and patience of those who remain behind.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0235par0210	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0237par0211	In the law presented to parliament, the farmer is treated as a stepchild again, and he's being double-crossed with interest, no agricultural bank configuration. This is so unfair. What are we doing to the farmer? We're constructing the original debt in the configuration of the farmer's debt to Agriculture Loan from 18 percent, and then we're doing 12 percent interest after the configuration. The practice in the past is 11 percent and 5 percent, and now we're increasing interest, and by 31 October, we want 30 percent in 3 equal installments. In fact, we don't do it when it comes to supporting media, supporting businessmen, removing their taxes, deleting their debts. We say, "Come, let's do the farmer a favor; let's wipe out our farmer's interest on the law we've given him; let's divide the principal money into five equal cabs; let's let the farmer breathe, not to the allies, but to the peasant who's the master of this nation." I say we think of 81 million of the country, not just the five-alarm gang. In the Plan and Budget Commission tomorrow, come and support the Republican People's Party's proposal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 1. Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 64 MP Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal (2/2972) and Interior Commission Report (S. Number: 220)
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0235par0215	Congressmans, there are 3 motions on Article 2 of the article. The first two motions I'm going to read are the same thing, so I'm going to read them and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Proposal 220 be removed from the proposal text. Gülışstan Kılıç Koçyiğit Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Rüşç Tiryaki Erol Kadircıoğlu Ridvan Turan The signatures of the other motion are: Yaşar Tuzün Rafet Zeybek Ensar Aytekin Necati Teğli Ayhan Guna Orhan Sumer Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0238par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0235par0231	Mr. Ridvan Turan is the first speaker of the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0239par0234	Mr. President, it's April 6th, not April, but March was a month at its peak in terms of signs of reform. We've been waiting since Erdogan gave the news of reform in November, but in March, it must have been the greatest news of all. What happened in March? On March 8th, women were taken into custody for jumping in their homes on March 8th, coming and coming. Unlawfully, a court ruled that our MP, Gergerlioğlu, was sentenced, and again, the Speaker of Parliament, illegally reduces his parliamentary position by having him read it, then he is detained in the early morning by operations with hundreds of police, then beaten at home, and another text is written in black letters in the history of Turkey's democracy. Later, Demirtaş was sentenced from the top by a ruling court for declaring his views on the fall of the Russian plane; it was not enough, he had filed a lawsuit against HDP (HDP) because he could not yet appoint a trustee to power over our spouses, and demanded that 700 people who were not from HDP (HDP) and Peoples' Party (HDP) should be banned from politics. Since the government has yet to take Istanbul from the Metropolitan Municipality of İstanbul and tie it somewhere, Gezi Park has linked it to an uncertain foundation of what it is doing by taking it from İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. He was then taken into custody by the Human Rights Association of Ozturk Turkborn -- who recently received his views on reforming the Justice Department. The Istanbul Convention was rejected by the President's will, this agreement was disbanded, and Saturday's Mothers began to be tried. While the Central Bank has increased interest rates by 200 base points to 7.20, with a tremendous economic genius, Erdogan's dismissal of the Central Bank again increased to more than eight. Now, this extraordinary, wonderful, wonderful proposal of law has landed in the General Assembly! I see Zul, I can assure you, I'm having a hard time talking about this bill. I feel like I'm trying to get something that's already been done, again with a power strike, to the General Assembly, but I'm going to have this conversation. Dear friends, dear people, we're wrong if we think this is an ordinary matter. A new government is being established. If we're thinking about this, sir, this is not the democratic part of the law, this is not what it is. We're doing it wrong. Look, in a place where an imam dominates politics, where there's a call for a caliphet, where there's an executive, where there's a judgment, where there's only one man to live, and where the judgment is transformed into a tool of power, dear friends, I'm not going to make a legal assessment. You know why? To understand this level, you don't have to talk about the usual concepts of liberal democracy or parliamentary democracy. It's like, you can't understand quantum mechanics by stepping on Newtonian physics, but by the laws of quantum mechanics. Here's what the government is doing right now, democracy, sir, very anti-democratic, contrary to the Constitution, or against this clause or this clause of the Constitution. There's no meaning by the critic. This is the building of a new state; this is the building of a new power. You know why I'm saying this now? I mean, no one's been asked about the bill, no one's been asked about the academy, political parties. It won't be asked, dear friends, worthy opposition. Now that this routine is gone, another level has been reached. Look, the State of Emergency was declared on July 20, 2016, and a coup attempt was made on July 15th. Those who know German history know that there is a Reichstag fire. The Reichstag fire was a tremendous opportunity for the institutionalization of German fascism, for all opposition to be challenged, for everyone who didn't look like the Nazis to be thrown into prison. And now, with those who refer to him on the 15th of July, with the extraordinary regime they've started, they've now brought this law. You know why I'm saying this? A historian says that those who think that history is nothing but similarities are fools.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0240par0239	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0239par0240	History is not about similarities, friends. On April 7th, a month after the Reichstag fire, a law, such as the Reichstag fire, was passed, and everyone who was anti-Nazi was troubled, that was the beginning of the Holocaust. Look, I'm not memorizing. Now we're dealing with something. Yeah, we know the innocent category, we know the category without criminal record, but thanks to you, the category will be addressed to the Turkish Penal Code because of the AKP and the MHP. He went to a rally, the court didn't see a crime, the penal code didn't see any problems, but for that reason, he was found guilty of archive research and so forth, and he never got a job in the state again. The Gestapo didn't think of that, I assure you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, Mr. President, my last words.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0240par0243	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0239par0244	Make sure that Gestapo's practices were more liberal than those practices. We're moving from authoritarian consolidation to fascism, which we need to know well, and a new state is being established. It's political. It's about joining the chief's views. "Parliamento" is the number one notary of the palace. There are no citizens in this state, there are subjects, there are reayas. The woman is three or five shirts lower than the male. So, dear friends, there was already a load of crap under the fingernails called a secular, democratic law state, which we never had, but at least it was written on paper. Now that we're here, it's no longer written on paper. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The laws of fascism are being made, dear friends, and we will surely rise up against it, and we will surely, and we will certainly oppose it. We're against the spirit of this law, and we're against it. Let the final point be this: they'll go to all the social and political opposition: no one goes with them anyway. Of course they will, but we must develop a strategic and tactical battle line against this departure. We know they're going to go, but it's going to happen with the common struggle of our people and the democracy front. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0241par0249	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Elazığ MP Gürsel Erol is the second speaker on the same proposals. Here you are, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0242par0253	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I just want to do my speech today by returning to the AK PARTY group. You take it seriously, you don't take it; I don't know how you judge it, but I do benefit from your listening. Once I evaluated the historical process and read this text of the law, I was truly amazed at you, as if there had never been a February 28th process in this country, as if people had never been judged by their values, their clothes, their beliefs, their mothers, his father, as if they hadn't been expelled from public service, as if you hadn't been expelled from school, and now you're bringing the same fascist mentality into the agenda of this Parliament. Look, if you think you're going to provide your own existence, laws on society, freedoms on people, you're wrong. On the contrary, you should give people more freedom. I'll give you an example: In 2004, the National Security Council took a recommendation, made a recommendation to the government regarding the investigation of the terrorist organization and then explained on TV that it was I who took the responsibility and did not take action. The President of the period, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is the Prime Minister of the period. Now, look, at that time, if the archives of the state, the bodies of the state and the institutions of the state had been properly employed, if it had been taken seriously, there would not have been 150 of the 356 general staff of the Turkish Armed Forces during your rule, 74 police officers in 81 would not have been arrested because of Å, 13 members of the judiciary would not have been arrested, there would not have been members of the Supreme Court, 43 members of the State, 2 members of the Constitutional Court, about 30,000 members of the Security Service -- at least 5,000 judges and prosecutors -- what did they do? In fact, they put dynamite on the basis of the state, the public order, not on the basis of the EC PARTY. So the wrong decisions you make don't just affect you. The wrong decisions you've made... when you don't take measures that should be taken on behalf of the state, you break state and state tradition. Is there any guarantee there won't be another February 28th tomorrow? So, do you have any right to let those of you who don't think about what happened on February 28th go on tomorrow? So there's a tomorrow. Well, I'll give you an example, Nihat Yeşil, who just expressed himself in our Ankara MP's speech. If you hesitate to investigate security, based on suspicion, research, if you go all the way up to seven bellies, will you remove Shaban Tooth? He is now a diplomat representing the Republic of Turkey, the state and government abroad. Minister, will you take it? You are a politician from the state tradition, will you remove Shaban Tooth? His brother's in there. So, will you take the Minister of Agriculture? His brother's inside.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0243par0259	Brothers don't come close to the first degree.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0242par0260	E, well, now, the embassies are not just a bureaucratic mission in this country... for those who have been accused of the coup attempt by the terrorist organization. There are two authorities in the Republic of Turkey carrying the Turkish flag in its car: one is the governors of the province, one is the ambassadors; it represents both the state and the government. Now, the brother of someone who represents both the state and the government will lie down, but he will represent the state. Well, isn't that a contradiction? Well, on the other hand, Minister of Agriculture. Does the Council of Ministers speak only about agricultural policies? All the secrets of the state are spoken of, and all the security policies are spoken of. So, tomorrow, how do you know he's not a GERP? So, we lived, we lived; the general you promoted from colonel to general was then suspended. So it could be, which means decisions on the rules of the state and the implementation of the law should be made, not according to their comments, evaluations. For this reason, this law is not a proper law, it is a law that restricts and restricts the rights of our citizens in the Republic of Turkey. Of course, as a group, we will say no to this law. I give you all my love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0244par0264	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions. No, President, I mean, it's very clear...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0245par0266	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0246par0269	There's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0247par0270	They both have to say no.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0245par0271	There's a disagreement between the Clerk members, and we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motions have been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on Security Investigation and Archive Research shall be submitted in Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law. We offer and submit the statement. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Behic Çelik Dursun Atash Imam Hüseyin Filiz Yasin Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0248par0284	Don't we agree, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0245par0285	Kayseri MP Dursun Atash is demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0249par0288	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party Group on the 2nd article of the current Law Proposal 220. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of law, first and foremost, I would like to start by saying that this bill was rejected by the opposition's votes last week, and that it was brought back to us illegally by the AKP by the Parliament's will, so Parliament's will was ignored. Dear lawmakers include a security investigation and archive investigation with the proposal of the law, the first or reassignment of the public office, the scope of the research and the evaluation of the issues to be determined, and the assessment of the data obtained, and so on. The law organises a sensitive issue as well as its quality. Therefore, it should not be handled with authoritarian understanding, but under human rights. The security investigation is now a general practice; it should be limited to officials who require secrecy or who are considered to be sensitive to state duty. Again, the person who has been investigated for security should be publicly and effectively contested and be compensated for the loss of rights by illegal practices. This law leaves many issues to the presidency's administration. This is given to the president's initiative on every issue in the party's presidential system. This freaking government system has the whole country trapped in a man's mouth. Moreover, such authority is clearly against the Constitution. The arrangement, which gives the administration uncertain powers, is a violation of the rule of non-transmittance of law enforcement. The authority of parliament is handed over to the President. The issues the parliament must set up with the law have been left to the regulations, the decrees, which the President alone will draft. All authority is in the hands of one person. One man has replaced decisionmakers such as the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. All laws that come to the House are prepared in the palace. As the party presidency system was brought in, promises such as that the parliament would be stronger, that legislation and execution would be severely separated. As with everything else, the AKP has misled our nation with unrealistic promises, leading the country into chaos with this government system. Members of parliament, nearly five years after the July 15th traitorous coup attempt, although the state of emergency has been lifted, the government is still acting as if it were a state of emergency. Some acceptable practices after July 15th are no longer reasonable. The AKP has made a habit of using this situation as its shield. The AKP is trying to make the country even more authoritarian, rather than normalizing it. He's arresting journalists, sending critics to Silivri. He's controlling the media. He's trying to suppress a few opposition media with punishments. He's trying to suppress NGOs. He's censoring the press. He's trying to ban social media. He's using public power for party benefit. He's throwing trustees at universities. He's trying to control academic freedoms. He's trying to silence the bar. While he boasts of his own legalep conventions, he gives the citizens punishments, disregards human rights, politicalizes the judiciary, uses it as a stick, makes naked searches, registers the citizen, so Turkey is authorising Turkey as a result. As we do so, we design futures with Europe. " Human Rights Action Plans," he says. What diet is this, sauerkraut? In other words, lawmakers, five years after the treacherous coup attempt, police points and police stations in and out of cities are still surrounded by concrete barriers. This image resembles a Middle East country, which, unfortunately, does not suit Turkey. He says barriers must be removed between the state and the nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0250par0296	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. Congressmans, there are four motions on Article 3 of the article. The first two motions I read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of Law Proposal 220 be removed from the proposal text. Yasar Tuğün Ayhan Gunty Necati Çiğli Other motion holders of the same nature: Züleyha Gülüm Mahmut Toğrul Erol Kırcıoğlu Mehmet Rüşç Tiryaki Musa Piroğlu Diriyet Dilan Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0251par0313	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0250par0314	The first speaker on the same motions is Mr. Necati Teğlý, MP of Giresun. Here you go, Mr. Mumble.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0252par0317	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the third amendment of the current Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly with respect, with love. After July 15th, the SEC, the security investigation and archive search for employees of the intelligence, police and prisons, was enforced by the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 2018, after it was implemented for all public officials. When my party took that law to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court rightly found it unconstitutional and repealed the law for many reasons. Now, we're up against the same bill again. No law can violate the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey is once again violated by AKP power by this law proposal. The 70th article of the Constitution states that no distinction can be observed in the service except the qualifications of the task. Under the name of security investigation and archive research for public service, it is contrary to the Constitution, as well as to who will do the research, how to hide the information, how not to delete it, how to prevent abuse of authority. Don't tell me that if these investigations are not conducted, the events of the 15th of July will happen again. And recall when you brought those traitors into the ranks. And now you've invented this law proposal to keep secular, patriotic young people from working in public, based on the principles of this country, Ataturk and the republic. You, along with this bill, will not accept many young people into public service, saying that security investigation and archive research are not appropriate. Why? Of course, to make room for cultists, parishioners, and your own staff. So, you don't want to investigate and investigate for the safety of the state, you want to make these arrangements by violating the Constitution to ensure the safety of your party and your power. On the other hand, we would like the Constitution not to be limited to the rights and freedoms of civil service, to adhere to the principles of privacy, right to public service, and not to violate the Constitution. We want the information of the people who have succeeded in the public entrance exams to be forwarded to the board of representatives of the relevant public administration, audit and law units, and everything to be transparent. We want all information on the island to be based on legal information and documents. We would like to report this to the island once candidates are identified who do not have the qualifications required by the relevant public office. We ask that the island be given the right to defend herself in the matter of allegations. We want candidates to have constitutional rights protected and no discrimination between candidates. We want interviews to be done on camera, and we want those recordings to be available only in judicial applications. Members of parliament, the National Ministry of Defence, the Chief of Staff, the Police, the Police, the National Intelligence Agency, is the only agency in charge of intelligence and authority outside the Coast Guard. The use of the law as a majority and the name of the intelligence services will include many discussions. Is there another intelligence agency in this country? If so, who does this organization depend on, who does it work for, and what does the strategic importance of national security mean by law? Since this is an open word, the bottom must be filled and the strategic importance must be written in a clear language, which means what it means from the Haziz unit. So which agency, which private company, in terms of national security, is the strategic importance of the unit being replaced? This has to be explained. In fact, let no one you desire take the civil service exams, they will work in public, take the shortcut, join your party, and walk through the door to work for him in public service. You don't want a degree, you don't want an exam, you don't need a certificate, you don't want a party membership, you want an officer. You run every organ of the state like the political organs of your party. There's only one reason you want this law, and that's for the safety of your party and the person in charge. Your goal is not to protect government organs, but to protect your party. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0253par0325	The second speaker on the same motions is İstanbul MP Musa Piroglu. Here you go, Mr. Piroglu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0254par0328	Mr. President, all opposition speakers who have come to the stand are calling upon the ruling majority to respect that will, wrongly, that a law rejected by Parliament would be violated and re-opened by the will of Parliament. This ruling majority has no respect for the will and the will of the people. There's only one will they respect, and that's the will of the court. They bow not to the will of the people, but only to the will of the court. This ruling majority, along with this law, intends to establish a severe pressure regime in this country. He wants to squeeze the country into the two lips of the palace, into the two lips of the only man in the palace, and crush the fate of the nation's people between those two lips. That's why this law is being passed. This regime of oppression is often carried out on the street together by leaning on police and court terror. This regime is also trying to establish a strict labour regime against workers. He attacks women seeking their rights, chokes them; he strangles the student who seeks his rights; he takes him into custody by beating him, by torturing him; he protects Tuncay Özilhan against the Migros worker seeking his rights; he puts the worker in custody by squeezing his throat. Those who want to trap the country in a man's two lips, they also want to trap the workers in the boss's two lips. Code-29 destroys all rights earned by workers with free permits and so on. So they impose hell on the country, the people of the country, the workers and the poor, and if they can't be stopped, hell will fall on the people of this country, and so they attack us, so they attack HDP. They want to protect and build their own existence over this attack. Hazreti Ali says somewhere: "Unless the poor are as brave as the oppressors, they will not be able to escape persecution and humiliation." I say to the people of the country from here: We will continue to live in this hell until they are not as brave as the Bosporus student, as determined as the Migros worker, and as blind as the woman who resists the violence of men. Unless we stand up, this power will protect and protect the rule of tyranny. Hakan Dağdeviren, 11, leukemia patient, mother and father are prisoners. He's lying alone in a hospital ward, facing death, clawing at death, and his mother, his father, is not released. I won't tell you to dry your conscience, for you must have a conscience to dry your conscience. Unfortunately, there's no reading of the slightest sign of this conscience here, and you tried to turn down the voice of this child, the voice of hundreds of prisoners like this one, by arresting Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu. By handcuffing Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, you wanted to keep him and others like him from being heard from these platforms. Don't worry about me, I'm standing up, I'm in a good mood, I'll give you energy. And that's trouble for you! [[Applause from HDP rows]] It is a pity that this power, wearing this bracelet in the hand of Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, put it on his arm, re-opened the canceled law, and threw the people of this country into a tyranny, and, unfortunately, struck this handcuff here. This bracelet suits you, and it is our duty to break this handcuff, to destroy your power, and to disband your kingdom. You'll leave. I'm not saying, we'll take you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0255par0334	The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0256par0335	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0255par0336	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0257par0337	No, Mr. President, no.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0258par0338	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0255par0339	There's been a disagreement between our clerks, and I'm moving on to an electronic vote. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motions have been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the notice of the Security Investigation and Archive Research Act shall be replaced by the declaration of the National Intelligence Service in Article 3 of Article (2) of Article III of Article III of the Archive Research Act. Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Şenol Sunat İsmail Taştaoğlu Muhammet Naci Cinisli İmam Hüseyin Filiz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0259par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0255par0352	Ankara MP Senol Sunat has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sunat.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0260par0355	Dear lawmakers, yes, we're talking about the law proposal you brought in last week, which was rejected in the matter, but was not supposed to be brought into Parliament in a year against the Civil Code, which was passed behind the back, that you gave away the rights of the People's Assembly. Yes, you do not respect the will of the nation; you violate the Constitution, the law, and the Civil Law; you have made it a habit; you will pass through history as a law without law, without justice, without law. I assure you you will be a subject of dissertation, thesis will be written on you, because of the thesis of the success of Turkey, where corruption has peaked, poverty has piqued, bans have surrounded everyone. Yes, lawmakers, the general reason for this proposal has been shown to prevent leaks and to determine whether public officials have the qualifications of their duties. Yes, I'd like to ask you a question at this exact point: if the goal is to prevent them from infiltrating the state, why did you remove the decree that he had not been involved in criminal activities with military schools that raised officers and petty officers in the Turkish Armed Forces? Isn't it still enough that you've been playing with the settings of the Turkish Armed Forces, which have been raised with the spirit of Kuvaimillia and the nationalism of Ataturk? Recently, a soldier in the rank of admiral appeared in a cult. The station wagon's at the door, under the epaulette vest, the admiral's at the temple, he's singing. Isn't this admiral a civil servant, Your Honor? Again, the Ayasophian imam official, the one who's disorganized everything? Don't these people, these people, have any responsibility to the state and the citizen? When we consider these arrangements and images together, we think of what happened before and after July 15th. We wonder if the government and the military are also developing new structures. If this understanding of yours is close to us, if it supports us, any sect can have a say in any sensitive place, a sense of understanding. You know, lately you've been talking about 94 souls, so stop trying to turn your party ideology into a state ideology, and you're not gonna make it. The Turkish nation has paid a heavy price for your recent mistakes. Until yesterday, you still haven't been able to clean up what you call our children, who you've put in all the capillaries of the state. Haven't you learned any lessons from these events? This nation no longer has the strength or the price to pay. Your wrongs will no longer bind our nation, nor our state, nor will my people forgive us. Congressmans, our oath is banned, the partner of the Cumhur Alliance is roaring, reacting to the State for show, but does not dare show his reaction to the great partner. What happened? He has put the ultimate point in common, our Scottish anthem is our national oath. He said, "It's over, don't you have an answer?"
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0261par0361	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0260par0362	The medals remove Ataturk reliefs from the medals, and the Ministry of Culture removes the word "Turk (Turkish)" from front of the Society of Arts and Folk Music. Are these coincidences, Congressman? What are you aiming at? What dark spoils are served? We're concerned that we know your recent past very well. What is your hostility to Turkey, what is your Ataturk allergy? Why was Erşat Salihi, president of the Iraqi Turkmen Front, suspended? That's not what I'm talking about, Mr. Lawmakers, who and who are being sent a message to? And do not take refuge in the destruction of the economy of corruption and waste, a blow to frighten our nation. We've seen what we've seen. Well, as a good party, we're coming to ruin the games. We won't let you discuss Montrö. You should know that, too, lawmakers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0261par0365	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the addition of the notice of teachers who will work in the public institutions and institutions after the declaration of personnel to work at the detention homes. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Hasan Çilez Salih Cora Mahmut Attila Kaya Semiha Ekinci Fehmi Albay Özalan Mustafa Levent Karahocagil Bahar Ayvazoğlu Sabat Özgürsoy Çelik Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0262par0376	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0261par0377	No one wants a word on the motion. The proposed security investigation is under way to include teachers who will be employed in public institutions and institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the third article: those who accept... those who refuse... the third article has been accepted. Congressmans, there are 3 motions on Article 4 of the article. The first two motions I'm going to read are the same thing, so I'm going to read them and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of Law Proposal 220 be removed from the proposal text. Mahmut Toğrül Ditay Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki Tulay Hatimlari Oruç Erol Kadircıoğlu Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı The signatures of the other motion are: Yasar Tuzün Rafet Zeybek Ayhan Barut Necati Çiğlı Faruk Sarıaslan Ensar Aytekin Nihat Green Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0263par0396	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0261par0397	The first speaker on the same motions is Mr. Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı of Bitlis MP. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0264par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 4 of Law Proposal 220 in the meeting. I salute you and the public. I celebrate the Lawyer's Day of All Lawyers' Day, the advocate of law and universal values that teach a biased course of justice in the face of illegality, including Selahattin Demirtaş in the first place. Dear lawmakers, the scope of the archive research with Article 4 is being determined and details of various criminal records are being investigated, and its compliance with public duties is envisioned. Given that many people today are being punished by a judicial bat, it is also a basis for putting a set in front of people in different political views, which will be attached to the power's own filter. In this scope, ongoing investigations have been referred to the limits of arbitraryness, subject to assessment of cases such as the fact that the verdict has been left behind, that there are several judicially inconclusive cases, such as lack of conviction. Such an arrangement leads to the reorganisation of the state by the AKP and its ruling partners, and truly the partying of public space and polarisation of society. It's against any legal principle. The issue we consider a judicial body is run as a unit under the control and control of the administration. In particular, political cases are considered related to crime and punishment, not to the Constitution and the law, but to how much it disturbs power. To stand in front of a judge and receive punishment, write a negative sentence on the head of the AKP and share it, and you will be branded. May they be on a good day, a small criticism of the dependent judiciary connects the country's independent integrity, and a young person is punished. In a country where crime and punishment are so simple, such substances also destroy the hope of thousands of young people. Dear lawmakers, the proposal of the law is not only against this clause, but rather against all human and legal values in general. This law proposal is a bureaucratic definition of either surrender or perish. This offer is not for wise bureaucrats, but for people who have lost their conscience, who say, "Let them go and eat bark." This proposal is that his students, who have resisted in Boğaziçi, offer not to make the thousands of people, their children and their families, who have been wrongfully detained and have been punished by the judicial hand of such a person who has lost their rights while seeking their rights. Now you're thinking that millions of young people struggling to become civil servants in the KPSS and interview will build up on your doorstep. You're afraid of young people. You're scared, and that fear has put you in a position to put handcuffs on the college doors. And you're right about your fear. Your rotten medieval mentality will stop the resistance of those young people. I've made you a short list of what needs to be plugged in. The ones that need to be tagged are the ones that are flawed in the collapse of 85 meters of a newly constructed road. If it's a project error, if it's a manufacturing error, if it's an audit error, whoever it is must be questioned and tagged. The ones that have the most reliable means of transportation in the world are the ones that have the flaws in accidents, the ones that are usually degenerate, the ones that you've been hormonally raised by the Law on Pronouncement, which you've played with GDO a hundred times, are the companies you've raised with powdered sugar. Those who are responsible for the real buildings that were destroyed in the earthquake, those who are responsible for the lives that were lost in the mines, those who brutally slaughtered nature and the environment for money. It should be those who loot public goods and money, empty the Central Bank, leave millions of young people out of work and without hope, hand out weapons to jihadists, turn the judiciary into a plaything, take the euro, disrupt the peace of the public, crush the academics' robes, and operate the Parliament with false documents.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0265par0408	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0264par0409	These documents should be kept for a century, not two years. You can't get away from the real problems of the people by changing the agenda, especially from the reality of the country by burying your head in the sand. Without further silliness, the economy, pandemic and vaccine situation, unemployment, corruption, poverty, should be the main issue of the Assembly. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0266par0413	The second speaker on the same motions is Mersin MP Ali Mahir Aşır. Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0267par0416	Don't shout so loud, slowly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0417	Okay, slowly. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0269par0419	There's nothing left for you to do.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0420	Yes, I mean, Mr. President, I'm not saying that I'm no longer in sin. I really want to tell a story here, and I want you to listen to it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0269par0422	Keep the size, though.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0423	In the early 1990s, a young lawyer who finished his studies applied as an assistant to Erzincan Law School. He passes exams, procedures are done, he's involved in a security investigation. He'll apply to the University of Marmara right away, and he'll win it. He's a doctorate, he's a professor, he's a professor, he's an MP, he's a Speaker, Mustafa Sentop. I, a man who has been wronged by such a person, the Speaker of the House, contrary to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has cancelled, and last week, when I bring back the law that came back from this House, my face blushes and brings worse. Dear friends, look, from this security investigation, from the archive search, the Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım was also victimised, our Group Vice President Engin Altay hasn't been appointed for five years, but today you're bringing in worse; no.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0269par0424	What should I do if I don't want roll call?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0425	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what about this security investigation in nineteen years? 3,000 judges were tried as terrorists, and thousands of officers were tried in the same manner today. Are you really looking for these concepts of love? No. I'm looking at the Ministry of Health today, and I'm looking at a list of congregations called Range; I'm looking at the Ministry of Justice; a congregation called Alexanderpaşa gives a list of blocks; I'm looking at other ministries, delivered to congregations. Can young ones, well - educated young ones, who truly love this country, be appointed? No. If you truly love this country, if you love this country... we have millions of bright young men in this country who will come on a mission... but you don't deserve them. There are three concepts for you: one will be party; two, family, family tree are very important; three, congregations will give lists; no, no.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0270par0426	He'll love his country.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0427	He will love his country, not betray his country.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0428	Yeah, look, we're throwing out people who love their country. You say, "We've seen people who love this country on July 15th." Those judges you appointed, those cops, they bombed this coven.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0429	He won't sell the country. They're the ones who sold the country. We're not going to sell the town. We're saying that's why we're bringing it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0430	The same understanding continues, the same understanding continues in a more violent way. We -- unfortunately -- have insisted on telling you since 2009. You attacked here when the late Kamer Boy spoke. We've told you over and over, this law you brought into this country will take the state back even further. It violates at least 8 articles of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court called it off. Why the insistence? Why? I understand you put in a line, but you're looking into seven.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0431	No, he's investigating his own person.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0432	Now, members of the opposition party have to resign, do you know why?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0433	Mr. Mahir, it's just about him.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0434	You know why?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0435	Just the person, the person.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0436	Look, his son's gonna be a judge, his nephew's gonna be a soldier, he's gonna have to resign from his party because he's a member of a party from the opposition.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0437	It's just a personal investigation.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0438	But you, the youth arms and women's arms in the backyard of your party, are judging from the law.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0439	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0440	Is that what this is?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0441	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0442	You're doing it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0443	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0444	You're doing it.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0445	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0446	I see it, guys, I see it, don't!
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0447	Anyone who loves his country, loves his people.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0448	Don't!
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0449	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0450	There's a CV coming in somewhere.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0271par0451	You haven't even read the law, Mr. Mahir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0452	Look, he speaks at least three languages, finished a good school.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0272par0454	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0455	It's spotless.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0273par0456	Okay.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0457	He's got no connection to terrorism, he's got a very high grade on the test.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0273par0458	He can get in.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0459	He can't get in, he can't get in.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0273par0460	Get me a sample.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0461	There are so many examples, so many examples, look at the magistrates, the original criminal judges.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0273par0462	I suggest you read the law.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0463	Take a look at the appointed judges and prosecutors.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0273par0464	I advise you to read the articles.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0465	When I said that in the Commission, you said: "Mehmet Moğültay, Seyfi Oktay also took it."
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0273par0466	That's how they got it, like you said.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0467	But no judge they've ever taken has bombed this House.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0273par0469	That's how they got it. They've committed treason.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0268par0470	Once again, you told me: "You are the minister's apprentice. I'll tell you clearly: it is better to be an apprentice to Mehmet Moğultay, Seyfi Oktay, than to be a servant to the minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0274par0473	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of (c) the 4th joke of the proposed Law on Security Investigation and Archive Research, the change of the (c) bend in the following way, and the abscession of these changes. In accordance with the decisions taken under Article 5 of Article 5 and Article 231 (13) and Article 13 (13) of Articles 5 of Penal Code 5271, dated 4/12/2004. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Behic Çelik İştin Nuhoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0275par0483	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0274par0484	It's Mr. Fahrettin Yoshüsh who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Uphill.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0276par0487	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In some parts of our lconium, there are unjust, unlawful practices. I'd like to express some of my views on the consequences of unsatisfactory work. Altınekin is one of the prime districts of Konya, which is 60km away from the Konya centre, and is a special district of agriculture and livestock. This county has a village called Oguzeli, the old town. Its vast territory is set up in places like a plateau at 17 points, where our people feed and feed heavily, but come on, all of these lands are mera. I've gone, I've seen, unfortunately, for years the mera problem hasn't been solved; citizens' homes, food roofs, mera. You can appreciate that in this mera state, they're planting some land, planting it as animal food. But come, it seems our Altınekin has a elected mayor for the 2nd time, who is still in an election fight two years after the election. She voted for me, she didn't vote for me. She continues to discriminate. I saw it myself. The land that those strange villagers, the villagers who didn't vote for it, had been plowed, unfortunately, so the land was plowed. I asked, "Why didn't the land next to you be plowed and yours was banished?" They said, "The AK PARTY has voted, and they are hostile because we did not cast." Why am I telling you this now? For God's sake, 1,700 of our citizens are living here, so please solve these people's problems, stop discrimination, and take the justice of your name to your gold for once. Something else: irrigation troops. We have nine irrigation units in the State Waterworks Concrete. They're closing the Beyşehir Watering Company due to their debts, connecting it to the Chumra Plain Watering Unit, 150km away, and appointing two of our eight irrigation units as workers. Attention, two workers per unit, not a civil servant. One's a technician, one's a flat officer. What about my brother, we have a lot of agricultural engineers in State Waterworks, we have a lot of agricultural engineers in agriculture, why can't you assign them? After these appointments you've made against regulations, they say, let's appoint engineers instead of those workers. But this time there are six people from agriculture engineers who are competent, decent, but advocacy, there's no bias. They're sending a mechanical engineer and a civil engineer to replace them. So that's what you do to water troops. Why are we telling all this now? You've done this for 19 years. I've been the best in the state. We continue to explain these examples so that maybe 19 years later, we'll do a conscience accounting and bring the state a righteousness, justice, justice. That is Allah's command, and the command of the Prophet, and that ye may say: This is the duty of man. But I don't have any hope at all because it's a ritual, you don't listen to words. You've been carrying on these habits for 17 years. Now, valued MPs, one of the most important universities in our province of Iconium is Selçuk University. You have appointed a chancellor there, and appointed a friend of yours and a friend of yours. In Yozgat, you have a candidate for MP, who has not been elected. Honey, if you can't be a deputy, let's make you a chancellor. You've made Metin sir a chancellor. Metin Bey came to Konya. In 1975, he was one of the most distinguished universities ever founded by the late Demirel. He had no integrity, no experience, no knowledge except to be an ally. First thing he does is get all the deans, all the secretaries, all of them to resign. Oh, brother, what happened to your problem? They were the men of the former chancellor appointed by your authority. He didn't get enough of it, he doesn't have a job, he doesn't have a student, he doesn't have an education. He said, "What should I do?"
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0277par0492	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0276par0493	Let's remove the name of the Merciful Süleyman Demirel (a.k.a. Süleyman Demirel) from the Health Education Directorate. You don't have to! And somehow, the name of Mr. Ihsan Wrestler, and the name of the deceased, is written there, and is written in a nursery. Honey, let's put this away. What's the point? Because what's the matter with us? Fighting with the Republic. (Applause from parties) We remove Ataturk, lift his principles, and lift him who says he is a happy Turk. Well, my dear, iron served this country, lift it up; the reaper served, lift it up, draw it up, draw it up. Until what? Tomorrow, we will all meet Hakk. By God, someone will wipe out your names and the name of your head, whom you cannot fit in the sky. Come on, let's give it up. Let us cherish all the Turkish elders who have served this country for 5,000 years in our history. Science, let's not separate scientists. Let's embrace the one who put the stone on the stone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what Turkish unity is, that's what humanity is, that's what justice is. Come on, let's do this once. But where, where! Have a good evening.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0278par0500	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0279par0501	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0278par0502	We certainly don't accept the latest sentences of the character.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0280par0503	You didn't delete it?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0278par0504	We don't have a problem with the republic, we don't have a problem with Ataturk or Ataturkian; we have a problem with people who live by Ataturk, we have a problem with people who say, "I'm a Republican." We have a problem with people who want to suspend democracy.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0281par0506	Your problem is with turkishness!
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0282par0507	Do you think it's true what the president did? Is it true what the president did?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0283par0508	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0284par0509	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0283par0510	Mr. President, I wish the truth were what Mr. Mustafa Elitas said, but you are now an allergic group of Turkish words.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0285par0512	Lies! Lies!
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0283par0513	You're so uncomfortable with the word Turkish, you cover up every place the word Turkish is mentioned, you remove the names. You didn't make me study for three years, even though our vows weren't banned. Why? It had Turkish in it. Question yourself, you've left the nation, you've left the Turkish nation, and the Turkish nation will leave you, you'll see.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0286par0515	Mr. President, I don't see the point in answering this hammock.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0287par0516	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0288par0517	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0287par0518	Mr. President, I interfered because I couldn't hear Mr. Elitas, but Mr. Turkkan answered. The AK PARTY has not only given up on the Turks, it ignores Kurds; we don't know what will happen at the end of this AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0288par0520	Thank you, Mr. Presidents. 1. Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 64 MP Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal (2/2972) and Interior Commission Report (S. Number: 220) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. Congressmans, there are four motions on the 5th article. Now, the first two proposals I'm going to read are the same thing, so I'm going to read them and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th article of the current Law Proposal, 220 rows, be removed from the proposal text. Nihat Green Yasar Charter Ayhan Gunpowder Ensar Aytekin Süleyman Ülbül Faruk Sarıaslan The signatures of the other motion are: Erol Kırcıoğlu Gülüştaştan Kılıç Koçyiğit Mehmet Rüştı Tiryaki Mahmut Toğrül Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Does the commission agree with the motion of the same nature?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0289par0541	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0288par0542	The first speaker on the same proposals that the commission disagreed with is Mr. Suleiman Bulbül. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0290par0545	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Since I came to the bench two and a half years ago, I've been talking about the state of law, democracy and freedom. I said that a country has nowhere to go from education to health, justice to economics, without a democratic society, and I keep saying the same thing, and we're going to keep saying the same thing. Look, there's been a proposal for a law on a security investigation and an archive search, and the Constitutional Court has cancelled it. This offer does not meet the grounds of the Constitutional Court's annulment, friends, as it does not meet... in accordance with the law enforcement process, we have ended up telling the Internal Affairs Commission that this proposal has been untrue since June 2020, contrary to constitutional rights and freedoms. Our Commissioner is here, our Commissioner is here. We said that it is absolutely not right for some public servants to be investigated in terms of first-degree relatives and relatives, the wife of public officials who are subject to security investigations. The person will be married, first-degree relatives, research will be conducted, and he will be prevented from taking public office. We kept saying that. Where have you come? You came to the House after June 2020, making changes. Where have you guys been until today? Why didn't you come and do what we told you to do? Is this what a qualified living looks like? What's a qualitative legislature with the law? Would qualified legislation be brought to Parliament by law proposals limiting society's constitutional rights and freedoms and proposals limiting all kinds of freedoms, friends? So we're going to say "Democracy." We're going to say "Freedom." We're going to say "human rights." See, guys, this is the 5th article, which regulates research with information obtained by law enforcement forces, which basically regulates the tagging. The prosecutorial and administrative courts are clear and clear: (the basis of the rule of law should not be considered a indicator of public service, concrete data should be considered, without concrete data there would certainly be pleasure in entering public office without concrete data, there would be subjective approaches, there should be no subjective approaches to the basis of the state of law, he says. We say these things, but you push aside the principle of righteousness set in Article 70 of the Constitution. What does it say here? No distinction can be observed except the qualities of duty. You're going around the legal and Constitutional Court's decision, you're pushing aside the grounds of violations of the AYM (AYM), you're in violation of the principle of legal and equality, you're pushing aside transparency and predictability, you're pushing aside the right to participate in public duties, the principle of innocence and the right to remain untainted, and you're bringing in judgments that violate the individuality of crime and punishment. Look, my friends, Mr. Süleyman Soylu, your Home Secretary -- there was an office worker at the AKP -- in the matter of Kurdistant Ayvatoğlu, when we put our objections to this, he said: I'm talking about the personality of crime. I mean, when he was a member of the AKP, there's a mention of the personality of the crime when he did a wrong job, but there's no character in the citizen's entry into the public office; there's political discrimination. (HPP claps) He says something interesting the other day, suddenly he's a man of the law, Mr. Süleyman Soylu, says it would be very wrong to make a judgment in a place where there's no deep evaluation. For Kurdistant Ayvatoğlu, an office worker in the AKP. What a fast! What a sauerkraut, my friends! There's no security investigation at the entrance to the AKP, but there's no problem with powdered sugar, is there? There's nothing wrong with powdered sugar. But it's a union, but it's a search for jobs, but if there are opponents who don't think like the AKP, they commit the worst crimes; let them sit down, and let the parents who taught their children in the best schools sit down, and let such partisans take office. Who's gonna tag it? He's going to plug in the executives. Who's gonna tag it? The law enforcement force is going to tag it. What will be done when the students who seek rights and perform peacefully leave school?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0291par0551	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0290par0552	It's going to be plugged in. When they try to take public office, no, stop. You have violated meetings and demonstration walks, and you have been hostile. What does that mean? The future of that boy's thoughts -- that means "stealing" his family. What do you call the parents who have been studying that boy for years? Your child will starve, you say. Can that happen, guys? This can't be happening. Friends, we are tired of telling you repeatedly that you are in violation of the Constitution. We've told you many times, you're violating the Constitution, but you're not tired of violating it. You are now in violation of constitutional rights and freedoms with this proposal. You're saying you've carried out your law enforcement duties with these proposals showing any violations. Friends, this can't go on, this country isn't your father's farm; you'll pay for it later, we'll pay for it in Republican People's Party power. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0292par0556	The second speaker on the same motions is Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0293par0559	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal, which the Parliamentary Speaker himself has renegotiated with a midnight operation, ignoring the majority's vote in parliament. First of all, I salute you all. I send a greeting to the beloved Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, whose position you deposed and deputized, without looking at the victim's identity. You couldn't shut him up in the General Assembly, you couldn't shut him up in our group room, you couldn't shut him up in our headquarters, you couldn't shut him up in the street, you think you can shut him up in prison? You will see that he who is silent in the face of injustice is the dumb devil. He will continue to say, and he will speak of injustice from there. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, we're discussing item 5 of the proposal. What's the 5th article that he's organizing? The security investigation. So, what's the security investigation? In addition to the issues in the archive research, data from law enforcement and intelligence units regarding the qualifications required by the mission will be investigated, interconnected with foreign state institutions and foreigners, and will be investigated to investigate whether or not they are involved in an action union with terrorist organisations or organisations founded to commit crimes. They say they're gonna pull it back, but not just his wife's, his family's, and his relatives's, until the very first degree. So here's the thing, friends: a citizen's elementary school will study for four years, attend high school for four years, go to school for thousands of days, take hundreds of tests and succeed all of them. Then he's going to take a very difficult exam, like his college exam, and he's going to be successful in that exam, and he's going to go to college. He'll go to college for four years, five years, take dozens of exams, go to school for hundreds of days, finish college and get a degree. He will then take one of the most difficult exams in this country, and the public staff will take the audition, and he will win it. You're going to take interviews, interviews, interview exams, which are all about pull, and he's going to pass those interview exams, but it's not going to be enough, and he's going to get this law, and he's going to get archived when he's asked to be appointed as an officer. Archives will be done to every officer, no matter what ministry he works for, no matter what title he's assigned to. Look, it's not a criminal record, it's a criminal investigation on every officer, not if he's ever been discharged from office, but whether he has a record or an archive record. First of all, everyone said it, but that means it's a violation of the purity code. Second: it means subjecting the citizen to subject. Why? Because you'll be taking away the citizen's right to appeal. If he had attended a protest event for any reason when he was a student, had said no for any reason, had been taken into custody, had been tried, had been investigated, would have been brought to trial the day after tomorrow because of this law and would not have been made an officer. Now you're going to say, that's not what this means. I'll give you a very concrete example: what you exported with the State of Emergency KHK, whether you look at interesting files at the appropriate time; a person who has been teaching for 25 years, a person who has been a teacher for 25 years, has been expelled from the OHRK on grounds of protest activities he attended while he was a student. Now you're going to make the State of Emergency permanent with this, and you're not going to make that person a civil servant twenty-five years ago because of the activities he attended thirty years ago, the activities he participated in because he used his democratic rights, because he said no. This clearly sees the citizen as an enemy. Again and again, while we were talking about the general, I said, please stop seeing the citizen, the citizen of this country as an enemy. Look, I have something very important to say. Now, when the reign was lifted and the republic was declared, do you know what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey originally said at the time? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0294par0568	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0293par0569	He said that when the revolution was lifted and the republic was declared, we would no longer be subjects of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we would all be citizens. Of course, it can be discussed whether this has been accomplished or not. In fact, in 90 years, it can be argued whether everyone has civil rights or not. But rest assured, with this law you have brought, I'm saying you're going to subject the citizen again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0294par0572	I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, both of the motions I'm going to read are the same thing, so I'm going to read them and I'm going to process them together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose that the last sentence of the first sentence of the first clause of the first article of the framework 5 ▪ be removed from the article text of the current Law Proposal 220 rows. Mustafa Elitaş Ramadan Can Leyla Şahin Master Erkan Akçay Erol Kavuncu Vedat Demiröz Mehmet Jihat Sezal Abdullah Güler Ali Özkaya The signatures of the other motion are: İşktın Nuhoğlu Behic Çelik Yasin Özturk Imam Hüseyin Fiz Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0295par0588	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0294par0589	No one wants a word on the first of the same motions. The first-degree sentence, which includes the first-degree blood and kinship of the person, is removed from the text in light of the impact of the security investigation on the qualifications required by the mission. Mr. Iştin Nuhoğlu, İstanbul MP who asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0296par0596	Mr. President, my regards to the esteemed lawmakers, the Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal. Public servants have obligations, such as sticking to the Constitution and the law and protecting the interests of the state while performing public services. At the same time, they will not find any activity that will disrupt national unity and integrity, endanger the safety of the Republic of Turkey, nor will they act in the interest of any person or group. They can't act politically and ideologically when they do their duty. In service and outside, they have to show that they are worthy of the dignity and trust their official adjectives require. For such reasons, it may be necessary to investigate whether the public official has the general and specific qualifications required. The crimes committed by terrorist organizations against constitutional order were clearly seen by public officials using public means. For him, security research may be important, or it may be necessary to make new arrangements for filling legal gaps. In recent years, however, there have been such negative developments in the government that it is obliged to be cautious. There are doubts as to who the research will be done and how the information obtained will be used. The damage done by the Justice and Development Party's power to the Republic of Turkey, the breaches, the behavior against the founding philosophy so much that what is now being done is far from believable. We walked together in these roads, we got wet in the rain together. If the political foot is still not being investigated in the fight against the government's terrorist organization, our suspicions are justified. Although political foot may not be found, the Turkish nation's future is threatened by the fact that after the regime has been changed and passed over to the partyary presidential system, it has only proven loyalty to one man in the area they evacuated. Dear lawmakers, in two years the Central Bank has been appointed fourth, but the end of 128 billion dollars has not been announced. The Turkish Statistical Agency has changed presidents over and over again. After the recent change, the data has finally shown that unemployment has waned. Even the crows laugh at this explanation, but the power doesn't care, just as they don't care who tells the government he's infiltrated in time. The governors of the state are holding memorial meetings for traitors against the Liberation War, and according to this law proposal, who will investigate and investigate who. I'd like to briefly explain to you how government officials were elected during the bright periods of Seljuklu and Ottoman (Seljuklu) in our state tradition: those who had succeeded among those who competed for days of trials and trials would become civil servants to be assigned to the required staff. Those who took this test were called the delegation. The delegation included high-ranking officials, such as queens, soldiers, women, and physicians. Thus, those who failed to pass this delegation were called "unresponsible." It was an expression that came up to this day, but the wicked were raised in the ranks of the state. Dear lawmakers, those who have ruled the state for 19 years, steal the questions and ignore those who have infiltrated the most important parts of the state, and then turn the state's wheel upside down by bringing in unqualified, incompetent staffs to work. They can't see it themselves, they can't speak the truth, but we can't ignore this collapse, whether it's painful or not we tell the truth.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0297par0604	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0296par0605	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I would like to say that the government is the trust of the nation. Those who serve in state authorities must not betray the trust, whether they are elected or appointed. That understanding is the same in the Turkish tradition and in the Islamic religion. In our understanding of the state that has passed through the ages, like a commandment, trust, justice, and righteousness have been the basis. When this command is shaken, the state system is also shaken and broken. We are clearly seeing corruption and dissolution in government administration. People are running out of energy, they're running out of hope. Our goal is not to upset anyone; it is our only desire to make the state of the Republic of Turkey strong and free and happy for all eternity. I look forward to our words being taken into consideration and turning away from the wrong.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0298par0610	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motions adopted, I submit to your votes the 5th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article has been accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 6th article. The first two motions I read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 6th article of the current Law Proposal, 220 rows, be removed from the proposal text. Ayhan Barut Emine Gülizar Emecan Ensar Aytekin Yasar Tuğün Murat Emir Nihat Yeşil The signatures of the other motion are: Abdullah Koç Mahmut Toğrul Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki Erol Kırcıoğlu Does your commission agree with the motion of the same nature?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0299par0627	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0298par0628	Mr. Emine Gülizar Emecan is the first speaker of the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Emecan.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0300par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. People in Turkey, unfortunately, can no longer wake up in a peaceful morning, dear friends. Every day, thanks to you, there's always action in the country. Let's just take a look at what happened the last two weeks. So in the morning of March 20th, let's take a look at the week of the morning when we learned that the President's decision was released from the Istanbul Convention. The President of the Central Bank has changed for the fourth time in twenty months, the closure of the HDP has been brought to the agenda, while the Vice President has been suspended. The nation met the Legalep AKP congresses, the fight against Covid (Covid) was a lie, and the country's map was red. Parliament Speaker Sentop could withdraw from the Montrö Convention as well as withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. He started a new discussion with his words, Ataturk was removed from the state medals, which had already been banned from reading our oath, and Kanal İstanbul is on our agenda. So when we look at it, dear friends, I'd like to ask you: there's a pandemic in the world and in Turkey. The number of cases exceeds 50,000, and the number of citizens who die every day is increasing. The latest issue is the number of our citizens who have lost their lives, 211. Now, do you realize that? The people became poor, unemployment became a becca problem, and the number of people who needed dry bread increased. Well, are you aware of that? Now, in what democratic, developed country is power creating agendas like this instead of solving the problem? Let's have a look. It's probably just Turkey at the top of the list. Right now, you couldn't even accept the rejection of the Security Investigation and Archive Research Act, which could lead to the very troubled and arbitrary practices that we've been interviewing, and you brought it back against the Constitution, and you violated the will of Parliament. I'll tell you one thing about this: Article 2 of the Turkish Civil Law, which states that the public abuse of a right does not protect the law. This is the malicious use of the Civil Code. You're driving the country away from democracy, and you're narrowing down the field of rights and freedoms. But in the chaos you've created, you will not be able to drop the Istanbul Convention, which is very important to us women from the agenda of the country. This agreement, which we were his first signator, was adopted by the unanimous agreement of all parties during the Assembly session of November 24, 2011. We're looking at the transcripts of that period, and in the House, you've all sincerely supported the adoption of the contract, and you haven't put it in any hesitation. So why was the decision to terminate it? Is this burden too much for you? Apply the Istanbul Convention. You have blocked your ears, and you have done nothing. Look, 66 women were killed in 2002, 300 women in 2020. In the last 18 years, 5,753 women have been murdered, lives are dead, dear friends. Today, four of the 10 women in our country face violence. Six women have been murdered in just two days since the day the contract was lifted. It turns out that the increase in women's murders is not random, it's not intentional, so it's political. If the Istanbul Convention had been properly implemented today, our murdered sisters would now be alive. Many women would not see economic, physical, and psychological violence. Remember, the first step of the Istanbul Convention was taken because of the Nahide Opuz incident in 2002. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that Turkey could not protect a woman who had been subjected to violence even though she had applied to the prosecution and sentenced our country to compensation. So the government, who issued this contract and signed under it, is now withdrawing from the contract and clearly saying: I am leaving my duty as a state to protect women, and I will no longer protect women. Now, if you want the answer to the question of why they withdrew, let me give you the answer: you have submitted to a number of reactionary groups and sects for voting, dear friends. 42 million women are now vulnerable to violence because of you. In 2019, you prepared a project and received 800,000 euros from the European Union to effectively implement the Istanbul Convention by 2022.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0301par0640	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0300par0641	So, what did you do with 800,000 euros? If you don't answer that question, believe me, you'll be no different than the contractors who sold the condos and cheated people and disappeared. You have to pay for this. You have to pay 800,000 euros. Dear friends, this decision is also contrary to the Constitution. According to Article 90 of the Constitution, a situation under the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot be carried out by the President's decision. The will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has clearly been usurped by the government of the individual, which decrees that there is no decision. We don't know this decision, we're furious. And we say understanding against this contract kills, but the Istanbul Convention lives. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0302par0646	The second speaker on the same motions is Mr. Abdullah Coach, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0303par0649	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is with the grace of all my colleagues who have been brutally terminated, especially Tahir Eflu, who were first murdered by the Day of World Lawyers on April 5th. I also congratulate hundreds of my colleagues in prisons today on Lawyer's Day, as they practice their professions for the sake of rights. Dear friends, the Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal was rejected in this House a few days ago with a majority of votes. This Parliament, in accordance with this current law code, has been rejected by the opposition at a time when the ruling party's ranks are empty. So, what was done then? Dear friends, then, following the 13th Article of Parliament, the Speaker of Parliament came to the Parliament in a hurry to work on the opposite and contrary to this, and again, against the constitution of this Assembly, this bill is being discussed in peace again. Dear friends, according to the 76th Amendment, many of our fellow lawmakers have spoken of this. This law proposal can only be discussed after a year because the Civil Code 76 is an amyl decree. Therefore, the Civil Code of Parliament is now being violated, dear friends. Look, the will of this House has been seized, its will has been interfered with, as well as the 7th Amendment of the Constitution. This is a very clear intervention and a serious intervention in the will. I mean, there's a finger in this for a dear friend. Look, I want to share with you something that happened with the finger. Once the villagers bring their existing crops to cities, they put them on scales and collect their money after they weigh them in. When brought to the weigh-in, the weigh-in tells the accountant: "I have five kilos in my finger." Do you know what that means? My finger in it means that when I went to get the villager's money for the 5 kilos, I was given $400 of the accounting fee to the villager, and 100 lira to the weigher with his finger in it. I mean, there's someone in the interest of renegotiating and renegotiating this offer, someone's involved, dear friends. Therefore, I would like to address you: Do not accept this present finger because it is a serious intervention in willpower; it is also a violation of the Constitution. Dear friends, it's also a gift of will. So, are we strangers to this willpower? Never, it's a matter we know. Why? Because look, we won the municipalities on March 31st, and we took 65 municipalities, and you lost there; what did you do? You've appointed 48 trustees from these 65 municipalities, so you've lost will. You guys are so used to this. Look, six of them can be chosen first. You said, "You came, and then you confiscated their prisoners." I mean, this job looks very familiar to you, dear friends. Look, this law proposal violates more than one article of the Constitution. See, these are the articles that have been violated, dear friends, the 90th article of the Constitution. What is the 90th article of the Constitution? Look, all politicians, including the Co-Chairs of the People's Democratic Party, are currently in nearly 10,000 political prisons. You are not in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights' decision and these provisions, which you have to comply with under Article 90 of the Constitution, and our friends are being held hostage in prisons, especially Selahattin Demirtaş, who must be released immediately.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0304par0659	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0303par0660	Therefore, the 90th article of the Constitution is violated by this practice. The 7th Amendment of the Constitution, again, is seriously seized by parliament's will. Look, there's the principle of personality in punishment, there's the principle of innocence, all of which -- although not in one way -- have been violated dozens of times. Therefore, the will of this Assembly has been seized, and this is a coup, and we do not accept it. This law is not supposed to pass here, and if it does, it will definitely come back from the Constitutional Court, and you have no right. Because this law will be cancelled for the third time, I want to make it that way. And with this law, you want to create a quiet society. Look, the Kurds who object, resist, demand rights will not be served in public service because of this law, and there will be no opposition. Look, those who oppose the law of power will not be in public service because of this law.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0305par0664	Complete, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0303par0665	No law that wants change, resists, will be included in public service because of this law. Look, you guys know about colleges. There is no word from a servant of God about problems in Turkey that have become gangrene, especially in the Kurdish issue of any subject at universities. Do you know why? This is the kind of fascist regulations you bring in like this. For this reason, the existing problems in Turkey are not being solved, so this law must be withdrawn immediately, and if not, we will definitely withdraw from the power that we will be partners in, and we will rule this country with a more democratic law. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0306par0669	Tell me who it's with.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0307par0670	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposed Law on Security Investigation and Archive Research (P.S.) shall be taken into the third sentence of Article 6 of Article 6 in the last sentence of Article 6 of the Common Security Investigation and Archive Research Act. Ayhan Altıntaş Behic Çelik Yasin Özturk Ankara Mersin Denizli Imam Hüseyin Filiz İştinoğlu Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Gaziantep İstanbul Adana Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0308par0676	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0307par0677	Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0309par0680	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party Group on behalf of the Sixth Amendment of the Security Investigation and Archive Research Act, and I salute you all. The proposal envisions an archive study for the first time in the public or for citizens to be reinstated. First of all, I'd like to point out that we've seen the importance of security investigation and archive research in intelligence, law enforcement, admissible procedure in units that would allow national security weakness, 15 July, in a low coup attempt. Those assigned to these positions should not be more attached to any opinion, sheik, cult than their state. We've also experienced, unfortunately, the dangers of mass purchases from places like this. But crime is individual. A man cannot be judged or lost his rights for the crimes of his own parents. It's a universal rule of law, but you can see that the 5th article and the security investigation include relatives, including mother-in-law, brother-in-law, father-in-law. You've just rearranged this clause, but I'm not going to change my speech to emphasize the lack of your sense of justice. In fact, you have applied the principle of individuality of crime to your followers very well. For example, you made the brother of a coupger named Mehmet Dharli the ambassador. But as for the citizen, why don't you apply that principle? If Mehmet Tooth was just a citizen, you wouldn't even make it a cop to make an ambassador, not your brother. I'm afraid your scales of justice are based on kinship, not justice, but party belonging. This is not fair, this is not right. Then you wonder why these young people are going abroad. If a successful engineer in this country is not one of yours, can he be prevented from participating in any project based on this law? Unfortunately, yes. In a country where there's no law, there's no money permanently, there's no brains, there's no money, there's brain draining. You seem to be spending your entire shift on different, oppressive laws, and you're not thinking about the end. Your goal is to save the day. You don't serve the state, the nation with this unfair attitude. Dear lawmakers, state administration requires serious work. It's not a rush to make these decisions, especially if the decisions you make concern millions of people, but unfortunately, in your decisions, we see that urgency. I'm going to give you a very simple example of this, and I want you to see the results of what you've done in a simple job: look, the law published in the Official Gazette on May 18th of 2018 has created new universities, and 14 percent of these newly established universities have been divided into the transfer of some universities and institutes. You don't care that colleges are very old institutions, let's leave it at that. These divisions were an unsubstantiated study, and it was obvious that he was in a hurry on the eve of the election. Naturally, academics and students at universities were negatively affected. For example, students entering Gazi University under the university's audition were given a new degree in Ankara Haci Bajram Veli University, which is the transcript of Ankara Haci Bayram Veli University, which is the transcript of the students who received the Gazi University degree. Why? Because the university was unprepared, it wasn't like every work done in a hurry, the system couldn't be made up. The student's diploma says Gazi University, but his grade sheet is Ankara Haci Bayram Veli University. What would a university abroad think of these documents? You removed the assistant professorship staff in one night, whether it was serious to run a state, or because you wanted the President, but it was the most known and used staff in the world. Doctor, you've come up with a freaky name, like a professor, and you've wiped out a professor's career in art and architecture, where it's not common to do PhDs. Okay, well, every time you say we're on the same boat, but you're sitting in the boat's captain's mansion, and you're rowing for the people, you can't treat these people like this. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0310par0687	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I now promise four of our fellow men from his place to 60. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0311par0691	Thank you, Mr. President. E.D.S.s., whose main goal was to regulate traffic and avoid accidents, began to be used as a source of income for municipalities, companies and highways. In some places, the installation and technical legislation of EDS (educated at nearly a mile per km) should be rearranged according to the Highway Traffic Charter. Traffic light is rapidly turning from red to yellow and green on a road that has an 82 - mile - drive risk on a straight road, causing our countrymen to be punished. This and many other problems such as this are not only the problem of Düzce, but the problem of the whole of Turkey. With a change in regulations, the removal of EDS (eds) from traffic lights without at least a timer and similar practices must be brought in and the punishments of victims of such lights must be revoked.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0312par0694	Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0313par0695	Thank you, Mr. President. Ayşegül Dama, president of the Samsun Teachers and Master Teachers Association, says: "We are 2,500 teachers in Samsun alone. We're master teachers at the community training center. We work under 657, but we can't take advantage of any rights. If there's a lesson, there's a fee, no matter what the reason, as long as we don't go to class, there's no charge. We don't have the right to get sick, we don't have the right to permission. It's been almost a year, most of the courses are closed. We want these regulations to change, to be given our rights of essence. At least during the pandemic, we'd like to get a short work grant and, in some other way, we'd like to be paid for our minimum payments in the pandemic process. The least we can do is pay electricity, water, gas and rent. We've got this pandemic...
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0312par0697	Mr. Pilot.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0314par0698	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 24th year of his march to justice, mercifully, gratefully, with longing, I bow down to his moral presence in the 24th year of the march of Lord Alparslan Turkesh, who had a place in the life of the Turkish state and nation, whose inspired knowledge, faith, and purpose -- a flag -- has produced generations, such as his love for the East to the West. He was a great wise person, who looked at the issues of the nation and the country, which were fed by the Turkish and Islamic fountain. The chieftain was a man of the heart, of the state, who lit our way through his ideas and works, and gave us a whole new soul to the touring geography. The road, the fight, the fight, your cause is our cause. Our leader, Mr. State Garden, the works and relics that you entrusted to the head of the brain are standing up.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0315par0701	Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0316par0702	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Ministry of Education should be paid double the amount of tuition fees, staff teachers and staffed teachers who have been part-time at public education centres, who have been working on additional tuition fees for 12 months and who have been paid under minimum wage, who have been paid by expert teachers, who have been paid by master teachers, should be paid by the Social Security institution by 30 days in the same way as in teaching classes and training courses, who should be paid in the form of tuition fees, who have to be paid in the form of double the amount of their tuition fees, who are staffed teachers and staffed teachers and staffed teachers, who have to be guaranteed their rights to be given their rights to be paid by the Social Security Agency on their rights, and they must be paid by a master teacher's rights rights rights right to be paid by their rights, and legal rights, including their rights. 1. Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and 64 MP Security Investigation and Archive Research Law Proposal (2/2972) and Interior Commission Report (S. Number: 220)
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0317par0706	Congressmans, there are four motions on the 7th article, the first two motions I will make you read are the same. I'll have these motions read and processed together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the current Law Proposal 220 be removed from the proposal text. Mahmoud Toğrul Hussein Won't Run Suryet Dilan Taşdemir Mehmet Rüşt Tiryaki Erol Kırcıoğlu Ensar Aytekin Utku Cakirözer Ayhan Gunpowder Nihat Green Yasar Charter Faruk Sarıaslan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0318par0722	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0317par0723	The first speaker on the same proposals is Mr. Habip, the Iğdır MP, who is missing. Here you go, Your Honor.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0319par0726	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. It's a little difficult to discuss this important law proposal at this time of night. He's already been officially brought back with a coup d'état, style. I understand that we can't convince you of the technicality of this work, of the problems that will lead to the future, because you're not in the mood for listening, and in that sense, I'll tell you a story, at least you'll get a piece of it, as lawmakers. Now, in the past, there's been a choice in a village, an alliance, a leader winning the election. Then there's the conflict of interest, and then there's the fight, and then there's the fight, and then there's Eto and Maho. Eto and Maho are convincing the master of the con that they won in this fight. Anyway, the chief's previous alliance is a family of profiteers; a troubled family. This time the Mukhtar is going to seek a new alliance to win the election again, to make an alliance with Eto and Maho. Then he says to Maho, "You be a partner, and I will be a guard over Eto, and I will be a headman, and we will rule the village." He says, "All right." Anyway, when they come and go, they win the election; only Eto, the watchman, does something that makes the villagers suffer: he cuts off some of them's water, burns his garden, burns some of them's crops, beats some of them's children; he adds cruelty. Maho is bored, too, making threats to everyone. In fact, one day the village imam says: "These atrocities are not right, they are not law. " That's how it goes after that. Then, the village had one piece of land, it's very valuable, everyone builds a house there, one by one, assigned. One day, Eto and Maho will think of this land and say, "O Mukhtar, let us decide to build a house on this land. Otherwise, the land will be finished, and our children will find no place to build a house. We decide, we set up our own commission, we set it up there, only our children build houses. Anyway, that's what the village elders decide. On that commission, there are often men of Eto and Maho. Anyway, after that, Eto and Maho assign all the places to their children, the children of that family build houses, and they say to the headman: "You're the chief, if you have children and relatives, it's trouble, we'll save them for you. They give them to you, but most of the time, Eto and Maho chase after their own children, and they distribute them to their own relatives. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Anyway, these atrocities, after these atrocities continue, the chest is set up again. After the Ark is built, the people teach a lesson that the chief is amazed and depriving the chief of fortune. Then he loses the election. He's going to his big brother's uncle's. The elder says, "Son, what happened?" Uncle Valla says we lost the election. Why did you lose, he says? This Eto and Maho have made me miserable. Forgive me, what did he do? He swears to himself. Then his uncle says to the mayor: "Well, son, let me ask you a few questions: Who was it that prevented the man's house from being built there? " So who stopped him, and went there and said, "Eto." And who caused the man's garden not to be watered? After that, who decided to assign these lands to their families like this? Who asked for it? He says, "I swear to God, Maho asked for it." Well, he says, "Who's the one who gave it to you?," he says, "Eto wants it." He says, "You are not the headman, you are not the chief, you are the headman, and you are Maho." So basically it says that you're not really the headman. Thank God you lost the election.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0320par0734	Last round, we're curious.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0319par0735	Thank you, Mr. President. Or he says you'll give the deed to the village to Ethan and Maho. Now, what I'm going to tell you is that this bill is going to cause both you and other people's children the day after tomorrow. Know very well that this law will only benefit the children of Eto (Eto) and Maho (Maho). You have guessed Eto, and Maho, and I don't have to tell you, you know very well. Look, there have been those who have tried this in the past, and there have been those who want to go this way, and Eto and Maho have not failed to do to them. They're doing the same to you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0321par0740	The second speaker on similar proposals is Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0322par0743	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. The Security Investigation and Archive Research Proposal is a text full of ambiguity, arbitrary, and breaching the rule of legal security, but it wasn't the only law in the country. Today, I'm here to draw your attention to journalists, the right to public information, the attacks on freedom of the press. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the day passes so that journalists in our country will not be targeted for their news, their writing, their interpretation, and not be attacked. In the last five years, 139 journalists have been attacked. In the first three months of this year alone, he has found 40. KRT programmers Afşin Hatipoğlu and Osman Güdü; Yeniçag Ankara Representative Orhan Uguroğlu were attacked in the street. People's TV programmer and Diken writer Levent Gültekin were attacked by a group of 25 people in the heart of Istanbul with a kick punch. Ankara and Istanbul are not the only ones. Unfortunately, the attacks continued all over Anatolia. A few days ago, Hazım Özsu, who was on a local radio in Bursa, died from an armed attack. İzzet Tınmaz of Aksaray in Aksaray; Murat Güççççççıç and Şirış Yıldızıldıldı; Feyzi Tokat and Umuhan Şahin from EGEM TV; Rize Zap daily reporter Ali Osman Ertaş in Turkey and Mehmet Günhan in Ankara. A journalist following protests against the President appointed at Boğaziçi University was the target of police plastic bullets. Dear lawmakers, as sad and worrying as these attacks on journalists are, there is another situation that we should all be concerned about together: the punishment for these attacks. The law enforcement force is not actively pursuing the perpetrators and the forces behind them. And there are no deterrent sentences given to the perpetrators by the courts. Look, I'll give you an example: Fearless author Ahmet Takan, who was targeted in November 2019, was attacked in Ankara by a baseball bat outside his house in Dikmen. The baseball bat used in the attack didn't even count as evidence by the court. The attacker was fined 2,000 liras, considering his good behavior. Notice that the price of attempting to kill a journalist in Turkey is 2,000 liras, and he will pay it in twenty months. The deterrent, the effective punishment? Another example, Yavuz Selim Demirag, a New Age writer, was targeted. In May 2019, he was attacked by a group of nine in front of his house in Ankara by a club in Ankara, where he was threatened with his life, head and arm. It's been two years and there's still no indictment. The iron isn't even called for testimony. In the morning, Önkübar was attacked twice, no arrests were made; first they take it, then they release it. In Karacabey, Şaban Örn, owner of the daily Yörem, is one of the journalists who was attacked. The people who attacked me are walking around the county, he says. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I regret to inform you that there is no reason in this country to attack a journalist. So, these attitudes, this punishment policy, unfortunately, are opening the door to new attacks. That's why I'd like to make a call from here: we've submitted our motion, we want the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate this, we want a research commission to be established. We want to investigate the reasons behind the actual attacks against journalists, this policy of punishment. Come, support us, and our House will investigate this matter. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm afraid that's not all there is to it. Recently, the Constitutional Court has ruled a breach in order to sentence the Press Advertisement to the Fearless newspaper. It's a violation of press freedom. The Supreme Court said, but who's listening! Both the Press Agency and the RTÜK continue to fine newspapers and TV channels. In March alone, the Universal newspaper was sentenced to five days and two days of ads. People's TV was given administrative fines 3 times for Tele1. Speaker TV's been waiting four hundred and four days for logo approval, and it's just gonna change a letter. Another thing is, it's a very important issue, a matter of access barriers. The only man who brings access to news that he doesn't like, that he doesn't want to be heard. Corruption, bribery, sexual harassment are being blocked. Every story that touches the palace is being read, kept from being seen. We see that lawmakers have even been denied access to social media sharing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0323par0755	Let's complete it, sir.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0322par0756	Thank you. And we even see, my dear friends, that even the content of the Freedom of State Association reporting these barriers is being blocked in our country. You know, there's a constant coup these days, my dear friends, this is the real coup, the real blow is the wanting of the media, which is the fourth force of democracy, to be silenced, and the real blow is that public institutions and those in charge of protecting freedom of speech and freedom of expression are going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0324par0760	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the first joke of the first article in the framework 7 (7) of the current Law Proposal 220 rows shall be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Erkan Akçay Sabat Özgürsoy Çelik Salih Cora Bahar Ayvazoğlu Selim Yağcı The evaluation commission is set up to evaluate the data obtained after the security investigation and archive investigation. The assessment commission will be formed by the president's senior executive director, the deputy secretary general in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the deputy minister's deputy minister in the ministries, the senior manager in other public institutions and institutions, the vice president's vice president at universities, the vice president's deputy governor's office in the governor's office, with the participation of one member of staff, staff and law units who will be seen as appropriate, and one of at least five people, including the president. The strategic importance of national security is made by the evaluation commission within the relevant ministry or public institutions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0325par0772	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0324par0773	No one wants a word on the motion. The motion is made to determine who the evaluation commissions will consist of in order to evaluate the data obtained after the security investigation and the archive study, by counting them in the law. In addition, the strategic importance of national security will be judged by the assessment commission of the relevant ministry or public institutions of the assessment commission for the evaluation of those who will be employed in the property unit, the project, the facilities and services. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, we have reached the end of the working period. I submit to your votes that the work period will be extended until the 7th Amendment vote is completed: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following declaration be replaced by a request of the Security Investigation and Archive Research Act, which is included in the last sentence of Article 7 of Article 3 of Article 7 of Article III. Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Behic Çelik Ayhan Erel Arslan Kabukcuoğlu İşın Nuhoğlu Yasin Ozturk Imam Hüseyin Fiz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0326par0788	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0324par0789	Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0327par0792	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation, I salute you all. Once again, I'd like to bring to your attention the subject of a victim that has been delivered to your side but has not been arranged. According to Article 5/5 of the Law on Police Duty and Legality, the fingerprints of the detained persons are taken, with criminal numerator placed in front of them. Even if the suspect later received an acquittal or non-obsession, his fingerprints and that photograph were deleted only ten years after the person's death. This eliminates the right of innocent people who have been exposed to this procedure to be protected by the Constitution and not to be tainted. Criminal photos and fingerprints of those who received an acquittal before 2006 were deleted, while these records were not deleted after 2006. Tens of thousands of our citizens are innocent of the law, yet according to law enforcement records, they are treated as criminals, which makes an indelible wound. According to these records, security investigations, archive research and employment notes are negative, and thousands of innocent people are still seeing criminal transactions, not being admitted to jobs and important schools. It is the principle of the legal state, the purity of innocence, and the non-defamination principle that allows for arrest photos and fingerprints of acquitted suspects to be removed, as it was before. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have honored us by saying, "Welcome Aksaray." Thank you, thank you, thank you. But sorrow is on the earth, and the house of the earth thirsteth for service, and the house of the earth waiteth for the word of Aksaray. Even though you had promised to connect your palace on the ground to the port of Mersin and to open the road to the organised industry for 17 years, you had failed to do so. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Again, you have removed the 75th Year Airport, which has been completed 60 per cent, from the investment programme with an excuse or a claim to no passengers. However, there are places where the airport is now located, where there is a population as large as the neighborhood of Aksaray. You have failed to perform the project that will bring life to the land of Aksaray, and bring water to the plain of Aksaray. Turkey does not have a treatment facility in three or five provinces, and one of them is your palace on the ground, Aksaray. Unfortunately, this is not our Aksaray. Again, you have failed to implement the projects that you planned to do for Mount Hasan, which is Aksaray's tourist paradise, the valley of Ihlara. You've forgotten the promises. Mr President, Aksaray's problems are not too big to solve. I wish you'd give us a hand as much as your own palace and take a look at our Aksaray. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-04-06sit06spe0328par0801	[[A round of applause from the good party lines]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the 7th article, which has just been adopted: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article has been accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Congressmans, we have reached the end of our working time. The decision was made Wednesday (April 7th 2021) to discuss law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (April 7th 2021). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
