tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'd like to make a few points. [[CHP President and İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu cheer from CHP's ranks during the presence of the General Assembly Hall]] As it is known, our Plan and Budget Commission has submitted the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law and the 2020-Year Central Management Computation Act to our General Assembly after long hours of talks. After our closing talks today, I will submit the budget and the final account to the General Assembly's votes. May we end the budget negotiations that began on Monday (December 6th) on the 12th day of today. A total of 374 hours and 23 minutes of work has been carried out in thirty-two days, including talks on the Plan and Budget Commission, and a total of 14,804 pages have been kept with the Commission. Of course, these numbers don't mean the full amount of effort. The work of all my friends, who have been involved in the legislation on budgets and final account law proposals, has been done with honor in the history of this great Assembly. The honor and responsibility to serve our country and our whole nation will stand as a mark on our hearts. Dear lawmakers, the budget of a state has two basic functions: one is to enrich our people, and the other is to move our state forward. We all know that in the last quarter of a century, global political crises and policies have been reshaped, and with the addition of the Covid epidemic to the problem areas, the world has been going through a rough patch. In such a process, the valued deputies of all political parties who worked to establish our country's budget for growth have carried out a very important task. Our saintly nation closely monitors the budget talks. There have been some tensions at times during the negotiations, and sometimes differences of opinion have been reflected in unpleasant tones. I'd like to express my regrets for the unpleasant circumstances our nation has witnessed. Style is often more important than words, a window. Given that our entire nation is represented in each member of our parliament, I would once again like to emphasize the importance, care and precision that the attitudes and attitudes of everyone under this sacred roof be worthy of the dignity of our great Assembly. There's no argument, there's a style that can't be used out of respect. I hereby request that today's meetings be completed in style and dignity, in the form of our Veteran Assembly. I want to thank all of our Parliament Speakers, members of the Court, members of our Group, and our Vice Presidents, our MPs, our ministers, our bureaucrats, and our Parliamentary staff who have participated in the work in the Commission and the General Assembly phases, which have contributed to the talks. I pray that the budget of 2022, which we will meet today, will bring blessings for our nation and our state. We're going on the agenda. According to our agenda, the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law and the 2020-Year Central Management Computation Act will be the final talks on the entire bill. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The commission is in place. Members of parliament, under the decision, at the end of the budget talks, the political party groups will be promised 60 minutes to conduct their views at the request, according to Article 62 of the Interior Charter. These times can be used by more than one speaker. In accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Code, personal talks in favor and against will be ten minutes. I'm now reading the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: MP Mustafa Kalaycı and İstanbul MP İsmail Faruk Aksu. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Group Deputy Chairs Şiirt MP Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş and İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group: İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi and İstanbul MP İlhan Kesici. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Vice President and İstanbul MP Mr. Numankum and Deputy Leader of the Group and Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş. On behalf of the Party Group: Group Deputy President and Samsun MP Mr. Erhan Usta and Group Leader and Mr. İsmail Tatekoğlu of the Fellowship of the Party. On behalf of him, Adana MP Jülide Sarıeroğlu. Vice President Fuat Oktay on behalf of the executive. On behalf of him, Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman and Sakarya MP, Mr. Engin Özkoc. The first statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group now belongs to Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0002par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group over the 2022 Budget Law Proposal and the entire 2020 Computation Law Proposal. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us in front of their screens. This evening, the ceremony of Shebiarus will be held on the final day of the International Memorial of Vüslat Year of the 748th Vüslat Maslana. And I call upon Allah, the Lord of the heavens and the earth, to be a cause of mercy and gratitude, and that Shebiarus may be a cause of good and good. This year's main theme of the Vuslat ceremonies is ▪ the time of the wind. The Lord says: "The essence of all knowledge is that man knows himself. Knowledge is the guardian of the heart when the mind dwells. Science earns high ranks, honorable positions. It is wisdom that makes it permanent in the Hereafter. The Imam Gazali say: "Those who call upon the former to put aside their minds and to be content only with imitation are ignorant and ignorant, and those who do not use the light of the Qur'an and the circumcision. Praise be to God, we are the Muslim Turkish nation that unites these two gems with knowledge. Our civilization is a civilization of knowledge, wisdom, knowledge, and wisdom. Dear lawmakers, the purpose of state and politics is to serve man. When political goals do not merge with the national and spiritual values of our nation, no word will be heard in the nation's conscience. Politics is a democratic competition, but despite the nation, politics is antidemocratic. The nationalist movement is at the heart of politics. We see politics as a way to develop policies to ensure peace and prosperity of the nation. Man is the most honourable of all creatures. We represent a political understanding that embraces all our citizens as an integral part of the great Turkish nation's family. The National Movement Party has adopted a new civilization based in Turkey and the understanding of building a new world as a political mission. This mission will bring Turkey into the position of a leading country, and will allow all oppressed nations to live in a free and honorable way. Our party is a dynamic party that constantly develops its programming, aim, policy and projects, looking for the benefit of our nation and of humanity, by sticking to basic opinions and principles and reading the world's change and progress correctly. It is the main goal of our party to create the social welfare order that provides a strong production economy in our country with its facility and a stable economic growth, creating jobs and getting a fair share of the value produced by each part of it. Our party's economic programme, which produces and produces the economy, is intended to build the competitive economy of high production and strengthen social tissue, which is taking into account our country's natural and human resources, using advanced technology, monitoring innovation, efficiency and employment, based on fair division of income. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we have constantly criticised the low currency, hot money high interest policies in the past; we have always said that policies based on consumption, hot money and imports are wrong; that Turkish industry is driven to a structure dependent on imports, that production, employment and export-based new plans and programmes need to be launched in order to reduce the dependence of manufacturing industry on imports, to produce high-end products and exports based on these products. So, as the National Movement Party, we support the ongoing investment, production, employment and export-based growth policy and the national technology move. In our country, policies are in place to increase domestic and national production, reduce external dependence in strategic areas. The outputs of the national technology move are being taken, and in many areas domestic and national production is increasing. Many imported products, such as servo engines, CNC countertops, can be produced today with domestic and national possibilities. Our domestic and national productions, which continue in the field of defence industry, each making our nation proud, were increasingly interested in the outside market, and many countries lined up to buy it. Many of the largest and first facilities in Europe, including integrated solar panels, graphen, flat glass, cattle gelatini, gipe fibers, citric acid and zinc islabe plants, have been opened recently. A society that can't improve itself in material technology can only develop at a permitted rate. Turkey has made a critical move with the graphen plant, one of the 10 countries in the world that can produce a series of graphen matter. The new favorite of science and technology, the graphen, is the thinst material in an atomic thickness, a perfect heat and electrical conductor, capable of absorbing light, and is about 200 times stronger than steel. To reduce import addiction, Ceyhan is the foundation of the facility, which is intended for imports to replace 20 per cent of its annual production of 450 thousand tonnes of polypropylene. Our nation's pride, Turkey's national automobile, is also attracting the world's attention, and hopefully we'll see it on the road in 2023. Important investments are made in the energy field, where we are most dependent on imports. Turkey is the fifth in Europe, the 12th in the world, with the power of the renewable energy board. Nuclear energy production will begin in 2023. When 540 billion cubic metres of natural gas is connected to the system in 2023, our energy dependence on the outside will be reduced. Organised industrial areas, which have become the source of production and exports and provide direct employment, have become the pride of Turkish industry. Maintaining and developing the gains of our world's modeled organised industrial zones is very important for the future of Turkish industry. Dear lawmakers, the pandemic has hit the global economy with a huge blow. The devastating impact of the pandemic is lower in Turkey than in many countries. Turkey has been positively separated from other countries in general economic recovery and growth. In 2020, the global economy narrowed by 3.1 per cent, while Turkey's economy managed to grow by 1.8 per cent. During the nine months of this year, it is already clear that our economy has grown by 11.7% and will grow in double digits throughout the year. Turkey has been among the few countries with strong growth rates that have made the world's highest growth, and its third quarter performance has moved Turkey to the top in G20. Despite the difficulties of supplying raw materials worldwide, abnormal increases in input prices, sharp rise in the price of navlun and container shortages, Turkey is performing high in investment, production, employment and exports. Machines and equipment investments have been increasing high for two years, with an increase of 27 per cent during the nine months of 2021. Industrial production has increased by 18.6% in the ten months of this year. Production industry capacity use has risen to 78.1 per cent as of November. Turkey rose 10 digits in the Global Innovation Index in 2021 to 41st, the best ranking in its history. Of the 132 countries in the index, Turkey has been the 2nd country to make the biggest jump. Exports increased by 33.8 per cent during the 11 months of this year. Turkey's share of world exports has exceeded 1% for the first time. When the curfew breaks, unemployment will explode. There were those who said, "But the employment has exploded." In October, employment reached 29 million, 581,000 people, increasing 2 million, 561 thousand people a year. As of October, the unemployment rate is 11.2 per cent free of seasonal effects; the youth unemployment rate is 20.1 per cent; the number of jobs dropped is 22.8 per cent. But according to last month's unemployment rate, 1.9 points, 2.9 points for labor, while the youth unemployment rate has dropped by 4.9 points. Why is this decline in unemployment ignored? Investment, production and export-based growth will further reduce unemployment rates. The statistics of the Turkish Statistical Agency are based on the survey, wrong. What will those who say, well, what will they say about concrete data? According to the Social Security Agency's September data, the number of active insurance holders increased by 1,72,000 people a year, while the number of mandatory insurance holders increased by 1,411,000 people a year. There are also 132,531 increases in the number of jobs reported to the Social Security Agency. The number of employees running 500 and over-insured jobs increased by 285, 1000 and over-insured businesses. According to TOBB data, the number of companies established in 11 months of 2021 increased by 7.6 per cent, while the number of closing companies increased by 1.8%. Tourism revenues increased by 107 per cent during the nine months of this year. With its share of global tourism, Turkey has left behind countries in the Mediterranean basin and Spain for the first time in history. The balance of payments is improving. In August, September and October, a total of $5.7 billion was raised, and during the ten months of this year, the current account deficit was 70.5 per cent; $20.2 billion was reduced. Budget performance is very positive. In November, the budget surplus of $32 billion was given more than $47.3 billion, and the budget deficit was reduced by 64.8 per cent during the 11th month of this year. In the same period, the non-interest balance, which gave $3 billion last year, increased $125.4 billion this year. The budget deficit is expected to be below 1.5 per cent of the rate of national income. This is expected to be an average of 7.9 per cent in the world; 6.6% in developing countries. This shows the strong stance of our country's public finances. In the second quarter of 2021, the GDP of the EU-defined debt stock went down to 38.4 per cent. The average rate in EU member states is 91 per cent. Turkey has a low risk, much lower than its averages in public debt, real sector debt and debt to the household. In October this year, 3.5 per cent has already landed to 3.2 per cent, while the following level of creditors in the banking sector was 5 per cent last year, 4 per cent last year. In the same way, protesting bonds and promissory checks have been severely reduced since before the pandemic. Despite all these developments, recent fluctuations in foreign currency are incompatible with economic facts. Although Turkey's economy may have some structural weaknesses, they are not excuses for the rise in currency, they will not be. Who are the manipulative, speculative transactions, or what capital groups? Who's the one who raises the demand for exchanges, pumps insecurity? These things must be explained. We expect a quick examination of the State Board of Control to be completed and its results revealed. The attempt to strangle Turkey in the triangle of Turkey, interest, inflation, the Devil must be revealed and the account must be asked. There are those who work hard to spread anxiety and pessimism about Turkey's economy, to create crisis and chaos; it's always the same methods, you know, stereotypes, stereotypes, patterns. As far as they're concerned, Turkey has been sunk, exhausted, and destroyed many times so far. The destructive rhetoric of the economy is very remarkable and thought - inspiring. A dark campaign is under way. It is a fact that there are those who struggle to make street movements from every event until they reach the appointment of rectory and the housing issue, even the plague, earthquakes, and forest fires. In recent days, there have been those who have considered the surrender of the streets to terrorism despicable. The Turkish nation, with vast common sense, did not come to the games set up until now, and did not pay for street calls. As we have lived before, those who attack our economy through courtship and interest are known to all our people who have a conscience about what they want to achieve, what they want to achieve. The treacherous process, which cannot be achieved by the attempted occupation, cannot be achieved by the coup attempt, cannot be achieved by terrorist attacks, is wanted to be completed by economic attacks, social movements. Neither our government nor our nation will allow those who work to disrupt our peace and peace of society. The Turkish nation knows the imperialist forces and terrorist organizations with subcontracted subcontractors who say, "I will destroy the economy of Turkey completely, I will destroy it, I will destroy it before." It has to be known that attempts to compress Turkey's economy over foreign currency and interest will fail again, they will not be able to surrender Turkey, they will not be able to turn the Turkish nation out of its way. The Cumhur Alliance is on national watch, not to bring down the Turkish nation's honour of independence. Honourable MPs, the Turkish nation is a noble and magnanimous nation. Our nation has faith and gratitude, and when we ask our people for their sake, he says, "Thank God, I'm fine." When God asks our shop how things are, he says, "God bless us, thank us today." He gives us the answer, but we are truly aware of the weight that is on our people's shoulders, the burden that is on their shoulders. He sees the negatives caused by the price and the price hikes, and we know that our citizens are suffering especially because of the overlapping price increases, especially because of the narrow and fixed income; he's right for those who are suffering from exorbitant prices and we understand them. The entire world is going through a period of extraordinary development from pandemics. Today, inflation is at the top of the world's most busy economic issues. The world's leading central banks view inflation as a greater threat than the coronavirus. The world's price of commodity has gone up abnormally. Inflation has also reached the peak of the last thirty-nine years in the United States, the last thirty years in Europe, the last twenty-nine in Germany, and the last twenty-six in China. It is considered whether inflation will be temporary or permanent. In our country, the high costs of input due to international price increases and the effects of the loss of value in Turkish lira are decisive in the high monitoring of prices. Our country is taking significant steps in the fight against inflation. In addition to setting prices, tax cuts are being made. In this context, high increases in oil costs are not reflected to the citizens at the same rate. In natural gas, the state is responsible for three-quarters of the cost and half of the electricity. The TRT share and energy fund of electricity bills are being removed. Natural gas is excluded from housing in price hikes. You're going over the opportunists who've been upped in high prices. We support the provision to give high punishment to those in the market who are creating shortages, market balance and disrupting free competition, and who are in the process of preventing consumer access to goods, and must be dealt with to the end. Unconscionable people who work in opportunism, hoarding, black-marketing in order to raise prices should know that their unfair earnings are forbidden and they will not see the benefit of this gain. In particular, measures are being taken to increase the revenues of our small and fixed-income citizens, which suffer from price hikes. The Nationalist Movement Party was more than happy with the news of our President's net minimum wage increased by 50.4 per cent to $4,253 per cent, the removal of the minimum wage and stamp tax, and the reduction of the employer's load of 450 lira. Our party's commitment to the minimum wage has been fulfilled for years. With the minimum wage taxed, a historic reform was signed and a historic increase in minimum wage received the prayer of the 10 million who had had a difficult time because of the cost of life. The minimum wage increase will also be reflected in the revenues of many, especially on the headman's allowance, unemployment benefits. The tax evasion of minimum wage will also reflect a salary increase for all employees. There's only one thing to say: God bless our state. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] The National Movement Party also supports tradesmen and artists and farmers. The tradesmen and farmers who will rise with a minimum wage increase should also be discounted on BUG-KUR bonuses. In order to satisfy the need for business capital for our tradesman and our COBIs, the appropriate loans must be offered. It should be easy for public contractors with high costs. The AVM and large market chains must immediately adhere to the rules to open a branch. Taxes and room registrations should be granted the right to owe our non-registered tradesman and farmer their past services. Public employees should be given additional increases and benefits, and the additional indicator system should cover all officers in the study of 3600 additional indicators. Co-workers must be taken to general administration services, contractual, proxy, honorary, and paid employees must be staffed. The pensions must be increased to the extent that pensioners can earn their living, the pensions must be removed, and the differences between pensions must be balanced. In addition, apprentices and internships should be counted as services, and an arrangement should be made to compensate for the loss of those waiting for age in retirement. Mr. President has given our farmer the good news that a drought benefit will be paid this month. The return of $4 billion in taxes cut from the benefits and the payment of seed support must be fast invested in our farmer's accounts. Our farmer must be provided with fertilizer, fertilizer, and feeding supplies. Our farmer must be allowed to buy seeds directly from TEGYM. Agricultural loans must be structured under long-term and appropriate conditions. Our female farmers should be encouraged by bringing in bonus ease. All farmers should be able to benefit from rural development support. Our farmer's delivery of goods to the stock market must be removed. For electricity used in agricultural irrigation, a fixed dwelling must be applied. We believe that measures against inflation will continue to be taken; new decisions will be made that will increase our citizens' revenues, reduce their financial burdens. That's what our president and ministers say. Turkey is a growing and strengthening country. Periodical problems are temporary. Price stability and financial stability will surely be achieved, and soon everything will be better than before. Dear lawmakers, the budget for 2022 is the fourth budget of the presidency administration system. In today's conditions for the rapid and effective decision-making mechanism in all areas, this was provided by the approval of our nation by the presidential government system; Turkey has gained political stability and confidence, and has been freed from its footlines. Augmented parliamentary system is an empty, tactical step towards saving the day. The Turkish nation has not forgotten its political instability during the parliamentary system, government crises, short-term coalitions and minority governments, coalition and parliamentary negotiations, the intervention of guardianship centers in governments, the ten years lost by coup and coup attempt. Turkey won't go back, it won't go back. It will be the victory year of the 2023 Cumhur Alliance, the Turkish nation, Turkey, no matter what the desk polls of public research companies who work on orders will say. The presidential government system is our national support. Turkey has responded strongly to intense persecutions, terrorist attacks, economic and political pressures, repelling each attack, disrupting the games. The future is based on the presidential government system. Turkey has become a globally effective actor, determining regional developments with its multi-directional and humanitarian foreign policy understanding. In this process, Turkey's determination to fight terrorism, to promote a century-long project to form a terrorist state across our southern border, to nullify the rational moves in the blue homeland project, to place Cyprus on its national route, to save Karabağ from the Armenian occupation, to build concrete cooperation on the Turkish world, to build domestic productions in defence technologies, to open Ayasofya's activities despite all counter-existences, and the fears and excuses of those who are making calculations against our country. It has to be known that the Cumhur Alliance will continue to disrupt the game of those who are counting on our country. (MHP and AK PARTY) The Cumhur Alliance is committed and sworn to ensure Turkey's national unity, historical rights, economic interests, social peace, back and prosperity. He is in charge of a national and sound will that plunges the night into the day for the peace and prosperity of the Turkish nation. The burden of the righteous is also heavy, and the burden is shouldered by the devoted heart. In our struggle for nations and civilizations, we have a bright future ahead of us, with our national and strategic power, the presidential government system, to strengthen our power. History has begun to reread the myth of the Turkish nation. This epic will not end, and neither will this process. In the 21st century, the Turkish seal will be struck, a new Turkish miracle will be performed, and hopefully, the future superpower will be Turkey. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] As I end my speech, I wish the budget of 2022 to be blessed and prosperous for our country and our nation. As the National Movement Party, it says we will vote on the entire budget, with my compliments to you and to the mighty Turkish nation.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0003par0068	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group now belongs to Mr. İsmail Faruk Aksu. Here you go, Mr. Aksu. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0004par0073	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Party of Actions on behalf of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law and the 2020 Final Account Law Proposal. I wish to welcome you and our beloved nation, the 4th budget of the presidential government system, to contribute to our nation's unity, peace and prosperity. The 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, aimed at continuing the rise of Turkey's economy in a conjunctural conjunctive of balances due to the global epidemic, has been prepared in line with macroeconomic targets, policy and priorities in the medium-term programme. Budget costs were estimated to increase by 30.1 per cent in the previous year's budget law to $1 trillion 750 billion 957 million and to be 22.2% of the GDP. Budget revenues were planned to increase by 33.7 per cent, making 1 trillion 472 billion 583 million dollars, and the budget deficit at $278 billion 374 million. The budget for 2022 supports the aims to promote investment, production, employment and exports, and to monitor the justice of revenue distribution, to achieve the budget deficit goal without compromise from fiscal discipline, and to promote innovation in a national technology move. As the National Movement Party, by providing the facility and stable economic growth of a strong production economy, we are envisioning mobilising our national resource potential to reduce the social well-being system, which protects the poor, ensures that each part of the value is created, employs, and is produced. Our vision of global power Turkey is based on a realistic assessment of the potential our country has with its capabilities and a political understanding that demonstrates the will to move the Turkish nation together in the future. We believe that this budget will contribute to the quality health and education of our citizens living in the most remote part of our country, to the fulfillment of fair and swift justice, peace and security, to the support of development goals, to the determination to protect our backs, to the national and domestic resurrection, and to the step-by-step of our goal of becoming a leading country. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to make a decision with the alliance of the relevant parties, expressing that the decision to cut the new minimum wage and minimum wage, which was 4.253 euros, which was reported yesterday, was a 50.54 per cent increase, is in accordance with the social expectations and our satisfaction. I would like to thank our employee, our employer, our state and our nation, our Labour and Social Security Minister, representatives of workers and employers, especially our President. Congressmans, education, one of the most basic public services, is one of the main objectives of education, which is common and accessible to every member of our nation throughout our country. As an indication of the importance given to education, educational investments and educational workers, the budget is divided by 15.6 per cent. Thus, when the education budget was included in higher education, it increased by 29.4 per cent to 273.5 billion dollars. Following Turkey's success in its ordeal, measures on time include a rise in significant health investments, technology and manpower capacity. In the fight against the epidemic, Turkey has not kept its citizens waiting at hospital doors, not having a problem with medicine and medical equipment, thanks to its strong health infrastructure and insurmountable social security system, and has waged a world-appreciated struggle. Our local vaccine, which few countries have managed to produce, has been proud for our country to apply for emergency use approval for Turkovac. In order to maintain such and similar improvements in health care, the budget has increased the budget by 47.3 per cent to $122.6 billion. I believe that the way to keep the government alive is to keep people alive, that the value of the countries will increase with the value they value to their people, and that in order to look to the future with confidence, the needs must be ensured that the disadvantaged groups and the elderly live an honorable life. With that understanding, Turkey is always there for its fellow martyrs, veterans, needy and poor, disabled and retired; it is always there for them in its important steps for social support and social protection. In this direction, the source for welfare spending has increased by 28 per cent from the previous year to 104.2 billion dollars, making up 6 per cent of the budget. Turkey's lack of humanitarian aid is among the most generous countries compared to domestic product, and its success in the category of Human Development Index, published by the United Nations, as well as its efforts for the well-being of all mankind through its human-based policies. In reviewing the budget proposal, the valued lawmakers are the key principle: with economic, financial and social policies, the consideration of domestic and external developments in recent years, the economic and social cost of the fight against terrorism and the epidemic, and the participation of the extraordinary events that affect Turkey's economy. In the last two years, budget deficits, debt, unemployment, high inflation, inequality of income, and poverty have become more common throughout the world because of the outbreak of Covid-19, which has shaken the global economy deeply. The epidemic also changed and transformed the model of economic and social activity and its classical policy reactions. Many countries are more focused on growth and employment as the primary target. In 2020, the global economy narrowed down to more than 8 per cent of the global trade volume, with 255m full-time jobs lost worldwide. In the second quarter of 2020, the economy of Turkey, which was narrowed down by the epidemic, was rapidly recovering from its high performance, along with the spread of normalisation and inoculation. Closing 2020 with a 1.8 per cent growth rate, Turkey has managed to perform quite strongly in the first nine months of 2021 with strong investments and foreign demand. In this period, a strong increase in exports and industrial production has contributed dramatically to growth. In addition to the normalisation process, which began in July, the economy became more active with the contribution of the tourism and service sector. Turkey's share of global tourism has been before Spain for the first time. In 2020, our tourism revenues dropped to 12 billion dollars in 2021, registering a strong recovery, and the medium-term programme target, which is $17 billion, is expected to be completed at about $24 billion. To ensure a long-term stable growth in the economy goes through sustainable industrial production. The real driving force behind this success in growth rates is undoubtedly our strong industrial infrastructure. Industrial production increased by 8.5 per cent year-on-year as of October. In November, the capacity use rate across the manufacturing industry was 78.1 per cent. In November, the Purchasing Managers Index took place with 52 points in a row over the threshold of more than 50. The manufacturers' operating conditions have improved and have been stable in growth. Machine equipment investments, a key indicator for strong and sustainable growth, have grown for eight quarters since the last quarter of 2019. The performance of the defence industry, which is of great importance both in security and economic importance, is flattering. Our strong industrial infrastructure and growing global demand have also affected our export performance, and 2021 has been a year of great success in exporting. As of October, Turkey's share of the exports of the world was first raised above 1%. With an export of $21.5 billion in November, our annual export has been reached at the highest monthly export value, over 221 billion in November, and a new record has been broken. The rate of exports has risen to 83.8 per cent during January-November, and has reached 98.3 per cent when it is kept out of energy. Increased growth, production and exports were reflected in employment, and the losses caused by the epidemic in the labour market have been compensated. In fact, 2.2 million new jobs were provided during January-June. In October 2021, the number of people employed increased by 2 million and 561 thousand people in the same month of the previous year. Turkey has achieved a high rate of growth, while on the other hand, it has managed to provide a substantial reduction in the budget deficit, which is described as an ikis deficit, and in the current deficit. Our foreign trade deficit has been reduced to $39.2 billion in January-November by 13.6% less than last year. In October of the previous year, the current account, which gave away 93 million dollars, gave away $3 billion, 156 million in the same month of this year, and $5.7 billion in the last three months. The current is an important risk factor for the sustainability of growth, and has decreased 70.5% between January and October by 70.5% compared to the same period of the previous year. Cari, the improvement in balance would be an important success to increase investments by keeping the current balance at a certain level, which will contribute to our country's need for external financing and also to the closure of the structural current deficit. In the European Union, the stockpile of general government debt is over 90 per cent, while Turkey is expected to be 38.4 per cent by the second quarter; at the end of 2021, it is expected to be 36.6%. In this framework, our country is among the least indebted countries in terms of the stockpile of debt in general management. Global debt reached about 360 per cent of the global population in 2020, while the global debt deficit increased by more than 10 per cent compared to national income. In our country, it was at a low level of 3.5 percent. In 2021, the budget performance was very positive. In November, the budget balance increased by $32 billion and the non-interest budget balance by 47.3 billion. In the first 11 months of the year, budget revenues increased faster than budget spending due to strong recovery in economic activity. Thus, in the first eleven months of 2020, the budget deficit, which was 132 billion dollars, was reduced by 64.8 per cent in the same period of this year, at 46.5 billion liras. Because of growing demand for strengthening the global economy and limited supply, inflation rates have increased worldwide to the highest levels of the last 30, 40 years. In 2021, negative climate conditions, high navigation at the price of commodity, setbacks in the global supply chain, increased transportation costs, and courtship has also led to a general increase in prices in our country. In the fight against inflation, significant steps have been taken with money and finance policies, while the co-host mobile system has been effectively used to help our citizens reflect less on the global level of increases, especially with support from natural gas, electricity and fuel. However, it would be appropriate for our small and fixed-income citizens to be supported by tax and social support programmes that are negatively affected by price increases and to be added by various mechanisms to our farmers, our SMEs, and our domestic enterprises. With recent regulations in capital markets as a positive reflection on the market and increased investor interest in capital markets, the highest levels of public supply history have been reached year-on-year. As of November, about 19 million investors have been reached through partnership shares, debt tools, investment funds, funds offered under the individual pension system and other capital market tools. The market value of companies has increased by 3.5 times the volume of the transaction in Istanbul. The portfolio sizes of investment funds and pension funds have also seen a remarkable rise. The banking sector has also maintained its healthy structure in the pandemic that has affected global financial markets negatively. The total active size of the sector is 7.4 million liras as of 2000-2021. About 78 per cent of the total loans are credits to real sector companies, which support production and employment. One of the most important firmness indicators in the banking sector is capital efficiency, with 17.3 per cent above the legal limits. The indicators, such as liquidity reception rate, foreign money position and leverage ratio, are at high levels, compared to the minimum levels predicted by international standards. In addition to these developments, we see that the market fraud based on transactions and information is important in the healthy functioning of the markets for the detection of controls to those who want to create instability by promoting manipulation and misleading transactions in financial markets. Despite short-term fluctuations, the macroeconomic data show that Turkey's economy is growing stronger and Turkey remains an attractive country. Turkey has managed to attract the attention of many international investors through its reforms as a growing, strengthening and enriching country. In 2019, our country was the third most favoured international direct investment of the developing European countries, while in 2020 it was the 2nd most favoured by a 16-percent share. Turkey has created an investment climate in international standards, including predictable, incentives and supports that work quickly for the investor through important legal and administrative regulations. As a matter of fact, in the World Bank Doing Business Index, Turkey ranked number 30 in the 2020th row. The quality of real economic investments is also important, as well as the amount of investments the real economy is based on. In this direction, the investment budget for 2022 was estimated at 147.6 billion euros, with an understanding that strengthens the innovative and competitive structure of sectors and boosts employment. Turkey has created many innovations by displaying a powerful vision in the field of industry and technology. The outputs of the national technology move have been started, and in many areas, including energy, software, medicine, and medical supplies, including defence industry, have increased domestic and national production. The share of the budget for defence and security is the result of a 2.3 per cent GDP in 2018, while 2.6 per cent in 2022 is the result of domestic and national transformation in the defence industry and the positive efficiency and success of products that have been activated. Energy, one of the basic dynamics of development, is an important input in the production that we can't provide with our own resources and have to import. Turkey's energy demand is developing parallel to its growing economy. It is important to increase the rate of domestication in order to reduce external dependence on the energy that constitutes most of our external trade deficit. In recent years, moves have become an important policy tool for reducing our foreign trade deficit permanently in the middle and long term, as well as increasing new and renewable energy sources, nuclear power plants, and explorations towards domestic production, to ensure energy supply security. Transport systems and services are the basis of modern economies and social development. The transport sector is critical in providing sustainable development in terms of impacting the entire economic, environmental and social dimensions. The changing axis of the world's trade offers significant opportunities for our country due to its geographical proximity and production capacity to consumption and production centres. As of strategic position, our country is becoming the regional intersection of air, sea, land and railway roads and the point of fucking hub. In this scope, Turkey has taken advantage of its worldwide investments in transportation and logistics, such as Istanbul Airport. In the first half of 2021, the average growing agricultural sector continues to add power to our country. Turkey is one of the leading countries of the world and Europe in agricultural production. Our agricultural product has increased 78% in the last three years. The agricultural sector, which has a sustainable acceleration, narrowed down in the third quarter, has grown uninterrupted for the previous twelve quarters. The budget's agricultural funding increased by 35.8 per cent to 57.6 billion dollars. For agricultural support programmes, $25.8 billion has been earmarked and 16.3 billion for agricultural investment funds, and the funding for irrigation investments has been increased by 39 per cent compared to the previous year. In addition, the legal arrangement made exceptions to the income tax for agricultural benefits. According to Turkey's OECD agricultural support account, with the highest support for agriculture among member states by 1.61 per cent of GDP in 2020, reducing agricultural input costs, additional measures will contribute to boosting agricultural production and the well-being of our farmer. The tradesman and artistry were most affected by the closures under epidemic measures. In this framework, many support measures, such as income loss support for our trade, rent support, debt restructuring, interest-backed loans, have been implemented. In addition, the earnings of taxpayers who have been taxed in a simple manner have been excluded from the income tax and the annual obligation of some 835,000 tradesmen. Our government has been on the side of our citizens and businesses using budgetary and external resources as part of the fight against the epidemic. The economic size of direct and indirect measures aimed at reducing the economic impact of the epidemic reached $717.8 billion by the end of November. In the process, there was no difficulty in fighting the epidemic, as well as in presenting public services and financing the fight against terrorism. Turkey, which has been able to withstand many devastating operations by the effective execution of the presidential government system, has not experienced any setbacks in the production, production, production, supply, logistics, food transport chain, but the production wheels have been rotated. The course of the Covid-19 epidemic will be effective in the future. Therefore, pretending that there are no crises that shake up the world while the economy of Turkey is being evaluated, ignoring developments that threaten our economic security, it would be a far-fetched assessment, as well as ignoring the terror struggle that perhaps no country has been exposed to for so long. Members of parliament, peace and security are at the head of social needs. Where there's no security, there's no talking about freedom, democracy and human rights. Turkey has been fighting for years and has also been made the most effective tool of hostility towards Turkey, while terror, support and the unity of the nation, particularly PKK/YPG, ISIS, DHKP-C. Today the climate of peace and security throughout our country has been dominated, economic and social, as a result of the fight against both terrorism and terrorism. As a result of an effective struggle, hopefully, our nation will soon be free of all elements of terror. On this occasion, the fight against terror, along with our martyrs, remembers all our martyrs with mercy and respect, and I want to stress once again that our security forces are always there for you. In the chaotic environment, where much of the global events took place in our recent geography, where the conflicts and migration and other problems affected our country closely, Turkey, thankfully, is an island of peace and security. Although we have some difficulties as a country, measures will help to overcome them. As the National Movement Party, social issues and solutions are our priority. With that understanding, we traveled around 81 provinces meeting our citizens, talking, listening to their problems. Although our citizens are suffering from some of the problems of time-time problems, they are very nervous about their intention of mixing it with abuse and streets; they are tired of lying and abusing politics, ridicule with their intelligence; they are sick of Turkey's struggle with terrorism, pandemics, diplomacy and economics, the historical steps taken in Cyprus, Libya, the history of investments around the world, the opening of the Ayasofya Mosque, which Western forces opposes it, the opening of worship, and the fight against it in a way that people are trying to set us in any way -- in a way that is basically uncomfortable by Turkey's struggle with terrorism, against terrorism, diplomacy and economics and development -- in Cyprus, Libya, Libya, the history of investments across the world. With Allah's permission, conjunctural problems stemming from prices and exchange rates without moral or economic basis will be combined, and some structural problems in the economy will not be solved again. We don't have problems, problems that can't be solved, that can't be instilled by the Republic Alliance's determination. The important thing is to protect our national unity and unity, our strong democracy, our political stability. Those who want to lead Turkey into chaos should not be given the opportunity to turn our country into a fire for their purposes. We believe that Turkey will continue to eliminate regional and global risks and threats, assess opportunities and opportunities, and act on our national resources, taking steps towards becoming a leading country and a global force. Instead of competing against hatred and anger, it would be enough to meet in the common denominator of the Turkish nation to focus on our history, our culture, our institutions, our law, the construction of Turkey's blessed future. With these thoughts, I wish the budget to be good for our country and our nation, with the National Movement Party offering the Central Management Budget Law for 2022 and the Central Management Law for 2020 saying that we will vote for the division, the Veteran Assembly and our distinguished citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0005par0100	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first word belongs to Deputy Group Chairman and Chair of Siirt, Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0006par0105	Mr. President, I respectfully salute our valued citizens, the esteemed MPs, the General Assembly and the people who follow us at the beginning of the screens, and the prisoners who are held in prisons for political reasons and reasons only, and I would like to send thousands of greetings to our chosen friends from here on behalf of our group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Today is the festival of the Ezidi community, also the Eid. I'm also celebrating their holiday. I mean... I mean... (Applause from HDP rows) [[x]] Dear MPs, dear people, we are at the end of another budget meeting. No doubt, there are specific features of every budget period. Unfortunately, the issue that marked these talks in this budget was despotism. Yes, perhaps this year's antidemocratic attitude and methods of power have become much more visible to the society's protoplasm. The coup d'états, the decisions, the instructions had such burning consequences that even the junta of the past had been forgotten. Of course, many generations have witnessed the country's efforts to democratise. We believed that the traumas of experience would be affected by democratization, we all believed, we still do, but every time, the efforts to democratize were blocked by someone. There's actually a ruling party, the Justice and Development Party, who object to these methods and self-producing them. He's forgotten his words about the love of democracy and has become the master of the coups, the ways of their rule. He established his own custody at every institution, as he called it. Only custody changed hands, and the inventor also found the means of trustees. He appointed trustees, the avatar of his power, to any area where the people showed their will. A total monogamous regime has been built, and the judiciary, the local governments, in economics, in trade, in school, in the park, in short, the Avatars of power everywhere have dared and still have the courage to design society. That's what we call daring, of course, cruelty. Yeah, you're the new owner of the custody period, cheating, lying, bullying. Dear lawmakers, we will fly the court regime, Turkey. With their lies, they have pushed it into the bottom of an entire pit. The most severe economic, political, social crisis in history has been brought to the public, the society of Turkey. The policy of polarization is imposed so that it doesn't speak of this deep crisis that it's scorched in public. I don't suppose there's a single section you haven't declared a terrorist? The totalitarian regime, founded by power, by crime, by lying, has practically abolished the Constitution, and is trying to finish even the crumbs of democracy. Parliament's balance and brake mechanisms have been completely destroyed. They're trying to be put on top of the chosen ones. For the first time in this parliament, which has taken its kingdom from the people, the appointed ministers have dared to wave their fingers at the chosen ones. We know you're waving this finger at the ring, and of course the public knows that, and of course, they're waiting for the day when he's going to pay for it. The balance in the legislature-walking-judgment supplements has been destroyed, destroyed, you've set up early on the one-man-campus judgment-responsibility regime; that's the new trio. The name of the Constitution has only remained, and the property of independence has been sacrificed to the court, unfortunately, to be neutral. The judge, who sacrificed himself to totalitarianism, has agreed to be a figure in the politics of power. In fact, Kobani announced his beer to the palace in closing cases on conspiracy and HDP. The unjust stance in the Kobani conspiracy case is one of the most important indications that justice is over. The Kobani conspiracy case isn't just targeting our party, it's destroying the rest of the country's people's trust in justice. Yes, every trial of Kobani's conspiracy is decided to continue persecution and illegality. Do you know why our friends are being held in this case? One of the reasons is, at the beginning, the suspicion of escape. They say, "Yes, there is a decision to continue the situation of imprisonment on suspicion of escape." The investigation was launched in 2014, and our friends were arrested on September 27, 2020. They didn't run for six years, they sat in their homes, in their work; some of them went on politics, some of them did different jobs, and they didn't go anywhere, they were all here, but someone had run away. Yeah, who were they? For seven years, Kobani had no power or judgment that had not faced the facts; he was a fugitive, a fugitive. Those who have avoided facing the truth for seven years have been saying about our friends, "There is no doubt about escape." How strange is that? Well, I'm afraid that's your idea of law and judgment. You've wiped out the scales of justice, and these days, you're walking around with a delicate scale. You're trying to establish an illegal criminal trial, like illegal structures built against the building; its foundation is rotten, its building is rotten. This twisted scheme of yours, which you call a judgment, will collapse, of course. This system shows us what the people want, what they don't want. Yes, the people of Turkey want democracy, citizens want economic prosperity, want peace, the people of Turkey don't want blood and tears. Yes, let us assure the citizens of Turkey that nothing that exists in this regime and hurts the people will be in the democratic republic that we will build, not in the new democratic Turkey, not in this way, but we will change it. (Applause from HDP rows) Strong democracy, permanent peace, true justice balance will surely be established in this country, and we will continue to lead the struggle. There's a saying, as they say, that there's nothing in the world that hasn't been said under this dome. So, we didn't say anything about the Kurdish problem under the roof of this House, we didn't talk about it, we didn't quit. And, of course, we will continue these conversations until we solve the most ancient problem in the country. You're trying to screen a people's presence and insistence on this presence with memorized retortics. I assure you that since the French Revolution, where the word "terror" was invented, no government, no government, has been so embraced by this word, and no people have ever been so oppressed by it as the Kurds. Now, there's no Kurdish problem, we've solved it. You're saying this is not a solution, but a confession of denial once again. Solved what? What did you really figure out? That's what we're asking. I'll solve it in a week if the place is given. You're deepening this problem by forcing Mr. Ocalan, who says, "There's nothing like it in the world, there's no one like it, we've looked into it." You're not content with it, you're pushing disciplinary sentences into isolation. With that attitude, you think you can unsolve an ancient issue like the Kurdish problem for another century. You were seeing him yesterday, and for years, the Imran had been searching for solutions to this problem by your will. Yes, these international sources -- this gives us such data -- say Turkey has lost about 4 trillion dollars over the past 40 years because of the choice of security policies in the solution to the Kurdish problem. Four trillion dollars, yes, you didn't hear wrong, that's the economic cost of war. This is the money that was transferred from the people's food, throat, education, health, future, to war, but everyone knows that they failed once again, the war policies imposed on the Kurds and the people, which went bankrupt yesterday as well as today. Your insistence on Kurdish hostility and unresolvedness comes and shoots you like a boomerang, loses you all over the country, keeps losing you. You will be just one of the many parties that ended in denying the identity, language, culture, existence of Kurds. You're all set at the party cemetery museum, so good luck. [[Applause from HDP rows]] A mind that distances itself from peace policies is costing Turkey 84 million. As long as you don't distance yourself from war policies, you're doomed to unravel and lose. Wait, really wait, there'll be a big last letter to your empty story, which you've reached the end of in the first crate. In Kurdish, which you can't stand, let me tell you, we're going to run the criteria for peace, democracy and rule of law, not the criteria for war in Turkey. We will run this, the peace will of the peoples of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, your court regime has implemented and continued policies in regional issues, as it has always been in this last year that impose unresolved and crisis. In Libya, Syria, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in Caucasus, in European relations, and in many other foreign policies, we see your victory calls, arrogance and so on. Instead of diplomacy, we've seen violence, conflict, and your body displays. In other words, we've seen your non-politicism as warmongers and porters. You think you're running or running foreign policy with SSO, ISIS, Al Nusra, HTS and derivatives, with SIHA, drones in your hands. You make crisis opportunists in the sea, in the air, in the land, you feed on war policies. Your food source, unfortunately, is not human-focused, it's blood and tears. Kurdish hostility is the result of your anti-peace policy, the destruction of Syria. You turned Turkey, surrounded by seas, into a geography surrounded by enemies on all four sides. You didn't leave friends around, you're enemies with everyone. As in Syria, Iraq, and Turkey, they continue to seek to continue the massacres that ISIS left unfinished, but you will not be able to break the will and struggle of Kurds living in Iraq, Syria, or Turkey. Oh, and you're looking for hot money at the door of the United Arab Emirates, where you call it the July 15th financier, where you make the most heavy headlines about it; inconsistency, lack of principle is the axis of your foreign policy. It's the dollar negotiation you call a foreign policy, the talk of pulling Turkey's resources out in a row. Yes, dear women, I would like to address all the women who follow us. There were no women in this budget, and now there's no children, and now there's no women in this budget. For 52 days, we discussed all of this, presented our proposals. Budget talks are not only the economic preferences, but also the Turnusol paper of power's social gender perception. As HDP, we have based on the public's budget rights, the public's budget rights, and participation in our work. We've done budget meetings and workshops for these purposes. Before this budget, we met with women, women institutions, LGBTI+s, many segments, and we shouted in the General Assembly what I was going to say: Fight women's poverty, not women's poverty, we said justice for women, we said we'd bring back the Istanbul Convention, we said we'd make sure that women's housing workers who have a huge care effort should retire, we said, let's make sure they have health insurance for women with cheap labor forces, we said to increase the number of women's shelters, not the number of women's shelters, we'll bring back the Istanbul Convention, and we'll apply it to them, let's say, let's get the whole presidential system, let's get the whole economy of life, let's put together, let's get a budget for all the women's put up in the opposition, let's get the women's get a lot of power. The government has brought women up only with social benefits, the economy that is in need. Throughout talks, our women used the expression of their minds, not as part of society, but as an addition to the family. In this Parliament, we have always opposed the concept of our women, and we will continue to oppose it. If we don't say our men, please don't let our men say our women. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The AKP is actually a male regime that advocates the Istanbul Convention, which eliminates women who work within it, who work for a thousand years. Yeah, we've seen one man's solidarity here. We've said a lot, and once again, women are not an extension of the state, the party, the people, the family, and you men, to the men who watch, you will accept it, there is no other way. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Today, we women with a lot of power in this Parliament, whatever party we're from, we're going to take all our winnings and all our basic rights one by one. We will put an end to the order of İpek Er, Pınar Gültekin, Hande Kader, Gülistan Doku, Shule Chet, Özgecan Aslan, and the perpetrators of women who were murdered by men. We will end the violence of the male state that ended the lives of Deniz Poyraz and Garibe Gezer. We women, we will never compromise our struggle to make sure that the perpetrators, the instigators, are judged not by men, but by real justice. We take this power from the people and from the women's upright posture, from our right, from our will not to back down in the fields. Dear women, under the HDP administration, we will certainly implement social-sex-sensitive budgeting, establish the women's ministry, and we will all discuss the women's ministry budget in this General Assembly together because we will send women to this power. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, in Kurdish, there's a beautiful saying:............ that set fire to the Saman, who seemed to be fighting the wind......... the power of the AKP that entered its 20th year... There's something called the AKP algorithm; it's based on denial of the truth, and we've talked a lot in budget talks. If power says it's a failure, it's because power says it's on foot; if law says it's justice, it's because it's underfoot; if it says it's democracy, it's because it can't stand the word anymore; if it says it's for everyone, it's because it talks about three or five people; and if it says it's because it's the absence of the people, it's because it's because we don't read the book. Let alone write a book, if you read a book, at the end of 19 years, you wouldn't have turned the country into this place of fire. Now, if we ask you, you're in a very big fight, but for some reason, the name of this struggle changes once a month: one day it happens, one day it happens to be saved, and one day there are forces out there, and one day it happens to be the fiscal lobby, and the fight is really huge! With great sacrifice and effort, the AKP managed to bring $1.6 in 2002 to $1.16 today; we congratulate you! We have no more wealth than a ring. You said, "You have come to power, and today you are master of rings." You have gathered all the country's resources and will in one man's ring. When AKP President Bakara read the chapter, he was talking about goods, products, loss of lives, what's left to lose, the poor, the unemployed, really? What's left, what's left? People only have lives left. And let your wealth be diminished, and let it be diminished from you, and let your wealth be reduced from you, and let it be diminished from you, and let it be diminished from you. In order to accept the great collapse, bankruptcy, the power is now trying to stamp out and present its newly decayed order with its new economic model. The high currency is a low interest model. Your model is a high lie, high looting model. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Your new economic model is the model of maintaining the economy of war, waste and corruption, making people more poor, crushing, unemployed, and unsecured; it is the model of creating a new resource for your gang, not the people. Your model is a model for continuing lawlessness and plundering. On the one hand, there is your drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - drug - non-designed teacher Fedai Altun, on the other hand, a wife, relatives, friends, and a Fatma nurse who was exported by the KHK and ended her life. Your model is a life-loss model. By working day and night, you brought unemployment to 30 percent at the end of 20 years; in your power, at least 28,380 workers lost their lives; out of 100 workers, 86 have no union security. It's all right. You're saying it. There are ways we don't go over it, but we'll pay for it for the rest of our lives. You stole young people's hopes, dreams, the savings of the citizen; you raised prisons everywhere as the bookstores closed down one by one. What's left in this country that you haven't confiscated? To deceive the public, you've painted a pale, pink picture day and night. And in these budget talks, we had representatives who brought pink glasses, and I really appreciated them, but when you're stuck, you say outside forces. The internal forces of your power are not the cause of the crises, of the collapse, of the destruction. Let's see who these internal powers are. At the very top, the palace dynasty, the three-man bureaucrats, the conspiracy trial, the OHAL, the KHK coup agencies, the ministry of conspiracy and crime that stirs the inside, the Foreign Ministry that stirs out, the Susurity, SADAT mafia militant forces, the hit man media, the distortion institution, the government's institution, ÜGVA, TURGEB, the government's government's government's institution of corruption, the five-point gang and extortion, corruption, corruption, lack of face. These internal forces are responsible for the wreckage you've created. This budget you're bringing is not your people's, it's your internal power's rant budget. It reminds me of the delivery scene in the same movie Davaro, which reminds me of you and me and you and one for you and one for me and three for me. But don't worry, it's always the last budget of your cunning to me. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) This time next year, we will make the publicist budget for democratic Turkey. Your time is running out, and I have some advice for you -- as a lawyer -- now prepare for the Supreme Court, begin your defenses. Dear lawmakers, today is December 17th, the anniversary of the biggest corruption and theft scandal in the history of the country. Come on, we're talking about a budget with a lot of make-up on the Supreme Court that needs to be judged now, but look at your watch, not those hours you're taking as bribes, but these are the clocks that people see every truth and never forget how powerful their memory is, despite what you think it is. You will leave with the chest as soon as possible and be tried for real justice. Look, about two months ago, the budget offered to parliament was $185 billion, today it was 122 billion, the budget is melting every day; we discussed a budget that melts in front of dollars and gold, and there is no such example in history. And you brought this on yourself because it's your system that doesn't trust you that increases currency. The only man who says he knows everything is your system. The people are running away from you, not from TRE, but from your system; and the people are running away from you. We know you're running away from the chest, but that chest will come and you'll face the truth. You won't be able to change ministers often, pass through the shift ministry system. By God, if AKP President Erdogan was the Minister of Finance or the President of the Central Bank, I'm sure he wouldn't keep it in that seat for an hour, he'd ask for your forgiveness immediately. [[Applause from HDP rows]] During the budget talks, every spokesman of the government stood on this stand and talked about projects. Let's talk about this: you raised $35 trillion in tax dollars in your 20 years of power, which is 20 times the budget of 2022. So, where's the money? No. The state's debt is overreached, the farmer's debt has ended agriculture, livestock, and the citizens' debt doesn't fit in the executive offices. Where's the money? No. With the tender prices and guarantee payments of your routes, three more can be made from the same bridges, the tender prices of bridges and guarantee payments, long enough to turn Turkey around four times. With airports' tender prices and guarantee payments, a Turkey could be created to fly in the air. I mean, there were so many, there's no source now. But you don't have a problem with roads or bridges or airports? You're worried about your rents, your followers, boxes of money. You charge $5 for the project, which is a dollar for the public's money, plus $5 for the passenger guarantee, a dollar for the car guarantee, and then you go out there and start screaming about public service. You serve your followers, not the people. You built a parallel universe under the name TUGVA, swallowed up all public resources like a black hole. The national and domestic investment is called massive debt. Where the law ends, tyranny begins. There is no future for those whose only capital is hypocrisy. The public is aware of all that's going on and all that's going on. With lies, the ship can't run anymore, you can't make it work, the ship is sinking. The AKP has a Turkish economy that the DP alliance has bankrupted. Oh, and here's the thing: it's like we're fighting an imaginary enemy. You have declared the people enemies. I can't live, I can't eat, I can't live. Those who said, became enemies in this country. Finally, Mr. Savesh put an end to the level of hostility, and he said, "It is immoral to go to the Turkish lira the state has given him and put it into the currency." He said, very clearly. You said eat my fur, you ate it until it sneezed. You're not satisfied, and now you're trying to teach the public a moral lesson? Listen carefully; the government doesn't give money to anyone, it's people's money. The government doesn't give money to anyone, but look at the amount of tax in the open budget revenues, people are giving money to the government. You have fallen on the back of the people with over 500 types of taxes, and it is indeed shameful. I'm telling the AK PARTY people who think they're the government, and I'm reminding them again. We are the government, the people are the people, the people, as Mother Eve said when you collapsed in the Black Sea. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Yes, dear lawmakers, let our people never despair; we will change this order, and there are democratic forces in this country that will change this order. Yeah, we have peace partners, we have women, we have young people, we have fighting partners. We won't let you destroy this country anymore, we'll change that order. And today, citizens of Turkey are asking God for life to use one more vote. This is counting the days to put an end to your rant formation. Now that you've come with 3Y, there's been lies, corruption, and nerve, 3Y, but the people will send you with 3G, to bury you, to send you out of power, and to say goodbye, and the people are ready. (Applause from HDP rows) The only way out of this dark table, heavy crisis conditions, poverty, gender inequality, ecological thalan, violent spiral is through democracy and peace. Don't believe those who want us to be thankful for the worst of crises. Be with those who sweat for peace. Here, the most urgent task is to rebuild our country on a democratic line. To strengthen the bonds of living together...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0007par0138	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0006par0139	...to cope with each other and overcome the difficulties, we will build a new life together. We are not doomed to the old one's rotten rule, nor to the new system of wild guardianship, which is called the new one. Third way politics is the key to life politics, and I'll tell you this: HDP is the key to fascism. We'll open it with this key and clear the way for Turkey. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Since I don't have a deadline, I'm just going to say one last sentence: our dear people, believe me, we will succeed, believe me, we will be able to change this order of evil together. We will achieve with democracy, with a budget alliance for the people, for the workers, with the alliance of women, young people. We'll win with labor alliances, with ecology alliances, we'll win with peace alliances. I salute you all with love. .... (x)
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0008par0145	The second word for Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to the Deputy Group and İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. Here you go, Mr. Oluç, your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0009par0148	Mr. President, Congressmans, first of all, we send our warmest love and greetings to the people who are watching us on the screen. Of course, we send greetings and love to our friends who follow us in prisons, and we say, "You are all our honor." [[Applause from HDP rows]] For days we've had discussions, debates on the Plan and Budget Commission, then the budget of 2022, and last year's final account, but there's a very strange situation. Because there's actually been a budget discussion that's become a bitch. Why? Look, when this budget came to the Plan and Budget Commission, the dollar was $9.27 dry. Now we're doing closing arguments, and the dollar's fluctuating between $16.5 and $17. 75 percent deviation, 75 percent. So all the projections and assessments of the budget have been in vain, just as they were in the Central Future Program of power and in the predictions of the Central Bank ten days ago. Now, don't worry about the dollar money you're getting? Because he knows that there's an addictive production model that's going up on imports of Turkish goods, and it directly determines the imports and energy prices of foreign currency. It's not fair to measure the Turkish economy through currencies. We say to the ministers: "If we don't speak the truth, we can avoid the truth." Don't think. There's been reports of an additional budget coming out of the vote, and you're closing your ears to the opposition because of your pride in power. In fact, this budget should be revised by withdrawing. Budget preferences should be changed and a new budget should be prepared according to the needs of the public, but this government has no means to do it, and its vision is that we are faced with a power that is exhausted, unable to tell a new story of hope to the people. Congressmans, the economic crisis, which began in 2015 and began in 2018, has an effect on you. You say, "No." Every day, it has multiple crises, including social and political spaces. Although the AKP-MHP alliance does not take the word "economic crisis" in a country where people say, "We thank you on the day we feed our stomachs." If a tradesman says, "I sold everything, I ran out of debt." If he says, "I work cheaply for asgarial wages, I can't raise it." If he rebel, then there's an economic crisis in this country if the farmer and the peasant is watching with terror at the price of fertilizer, diesel and seeds. In this country, if people are too busy making headlines when they're buying stale bread and setting up dinners, there's a joy of power that is alienated to their people. The kitchen of the worker, the worker, the farmer, the poor, the poor, and the low-income were turned into a place of fire. He can't produce, he can't buy, he can't sell, he can't set a price in the last few weeks, he loses the power of the citizen to buy every day, Turkish lira is reduced to worthless stamps; who does it? It's powering. Erdoğan, as President of the Justice and Development Party, is either a member of the Party of Justice and Development. The problem is the power that created this environment of insecurity. The people don't trust your words. The sin in the middle is yours. It is the palace that is sinful. It's not the tradesman, it's not the manufacturer; it's the palace, it's the alliance between the Justice and Development Party and the MHP. I have written the book of ekonomi. The President who says, if he has a book, his name is the pyramid scheme of Saray. And we don't have that kind of war, and we say that with your policies and practices, you've waged war on the laborer, the poor people, the small-income. It's called a battle to protect your power. Members of parliament have now embraced the new economic model to extend their power life. You're lying down. You're saying it's a new economic model. First of all, this model isn't new, let's just say. Kenan is a make-up of the economic model brought to Turkey by the Universe on September 12, 1980 military coup and tank palettes. The public paid the bill for this model in the 1994 economic crisis, in the economic crisis of 2000 and 2001. We know this model from the bankers' crisis, the imaginary exports, the food lines. We know this model from current deficits, trade deficits, between politics, business, red tape, criminal economies. The first act of this model was the Federal Reserve's dollar sales. On December 1, December 3, December 10th and December 13th, the Central Bank sold over $4 billion in foreign currency, selling today, between $1 and $5.5 billion. Erdogan sold dollars to the Central Bank so that even during the group meeting, he wouldn't play the court. The sale was made during the U.S. Fed meeting, and after the interest statement, the sale was again made. Whose dollars is he selling, the Federal Reserve? How much does he borrow and get the dollars from the Federal Reserve? Who's getting paid in a row? Do you have any idea how long it took for the currency to be sold to lower the dollar? Forty-five minutes, only 45 minutes. We're facing a terrible irresponsibility. The exchange was sold, the dollar dropped a little bit, and 45 minutes later, the dollar came back at the price. Billions of dollars out of these people's pockets have been clearly burned down, but we know someone's pockets are swollen. All over the world, countries have central banks, and Turkey has one man's central bank, the palace bank. The palace bank works for you, which is not enough, but these days you're working to support the capital structure and credit capacity of public banks. After sinking the tradesman, pensioner, laborer, farmer, now it's time for public banks. This model is a model of contradictions. It's a model where those who say we're against interest pay high interest, say we're local and national, and try to sell the future of the country to foreign investors and companies at the price of bargains. You're creating a new economic program every year, and so was last year, this year. Your system, which surrounds society with high currency, high interest debt, high unemployment, high inflation, and life-expension spirals, has completed its life span, your system has been flattened, your system has been scraped. You won't be able to move a flat car. Your three-year presidential government system is full of new models. I'll tell you what your models did to Turkey: half the population, according to the World Bank report, takes 15 per cent of the total income per year, and the top one gets 24 per cent of the income. Here, this is your model. Congressmans, power is ruining this country's economy. Every year since 2018, you've changed a Treasury and Finance Minister, since 2018, you've changed four Central Bank presidents, converted TİİKbook into palace calculators, changed countless vice presidents and vice presidents; you've carried corruption to the Council of Ministers, to the palace, raised the total number of debtors to 35 million people, leaving 30 million people below the age of starvation. Not the 1994 Tansu Ciller, the 1994 National Security Council, which you call a custody agency, which you call an economic survival war, nor the dark scenarios prepared in the blind wells of the palace can save that power. We face a reality of a ruling partnership, which forces the people of Turkey to fight for their lives in a multiplicity crisis and says, "There is no harm without shame." The street, the market, the market, the workshop, the grocery store, the grocery store, the butcher, and most importantly, you're unaware of the public cuisine, you're in a position to be unable to go among the people. That's why you can talk without blushing. Go to the market in the evening hours to pick up the small one. You can say, "Shortly on the floor." You can say, "Don't eat the meat with the grams, take the vegetables with the grain." You can say, "Don't eat on the side, it's bad for your health." Look, you've destroyed agriculture so much that farmers and peasants don't know what to say to you anymore. The chairman of the Justice and Development Party (PKK) says we have reduced its dependence on the outside of Turkey's defence industry to 20 per cent of the 80 per cent. In 2020, wheat was imported by 48 percent of the wheat produced. The import of wheat in 2021 is close to 11 to 12 million tons. Not just in wheat; in rice, in lentils, and in chickpeas, you made Turkey dependent on the outside. Your authority, which boasted of reducing external dependence in the defence industry, has made Turkey dependent on the outside in the wheat of bread, rice rice rice, rice. Are you proud of your work? Because of the increased levels of fertilizer, fertilizer, seeds, tractors can't work in this country's fertile land, farmers struggle with the foreclosure, but imports are working just fine. You also built a lie industry in Turkey. We're flying. We're running. We're getting excited. We're jealous of Europe. We're in the zone. We're growing economics. You're running your politics through the industry of lies that produce local and national lies. You don't see or want to hear about your interest and arms spending in the budget, your multi-payment arrangement, your rant and looting, corruption. Members of parliament, to listen to the people's demands and concerns of the economic crisis during the year 2021, we have held Labour and Lunch Meetings all over Turkey from Istanbul to VanESTa, Mardin to İzmir. Before the start of the budget talks in 2022, we had talks with civil society organisations, occupational organisations, democratic mass organisations, civil initiatives, and we met with the public and listened to their demands for the budget. As a result of these meetings, we moved the demands to the House. We submitted motions during their talks with the Plan and Budget Commission on the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. The minimum wage was exempted from taxes, you didn't listen, but now you've been so excited to defend it because the palace told you to. Only if the palace tells you to accept the truth. The motions we made from student loans to the problems of the EYT people, from 3600 additional indicators to farmers' debts, non-assigned teachers' pensions, from domestic workers' rights to disabled women's problems have been rejected by AKP, DP votes. Because you no longer care about working, working, retired, business, farmers, women, young people, small incomes, paid employees, society's problems are not your concern. Congressmans, one of the biggest features of this budget is that there is no women's budget. This budget is a budget that deepens inequality, not only is it sensitive to gender equality. The policies aimed at preventing violence against women are not in this budget to resolve women's poverty and unemployment, to prevent women from working with flexible, unsecured and low income. This budget is a budget that ignores equal participation, equal representation. Turkey is at the top of the world's busiest countries, unfortunately, while young people are also at the top of the top of the list of the most unhappy and desperate countries in the world. In Turkey, young unemployment is close to 25 per cent -- one out of every four young people is unemployed; even worse, hundreds of thousands of young people have given up looking for jobs, they have lost hope of finding jobs. That's what you did to youth. All this poverty and unemployment kills young women most of all. However, documents related to inadequacy and torpedo, information, folder folder, are being released. It's a time when despair is being normalized, it's being ruleless, it's being extraordinary, it's normal, it's illegal, it's philosophy, it's corruption, it's trying to be a system. We know very well that it is women and young men who will guide us and inspire us with courage. Women's strength, their struggle, their will, and their insistence grow despite all obstacles. As we close an era in the next time period, there is hope that young people will rebuild this country with their own hands. We began young, we will succeed young. The young who say, "We will succeed young. " [[Applause from HDP rows]] Women who resist women who want to distance them from the public area will guide all of us by responding to the mentality that says, "Take off your phone." Congressmans, a few days ago, your Finance Minister reversed the fake pink painting drawn by the ruling spokesman and ministers here during the budget, and if we stop, we'll all end up together. And we say, "No, we're not going to end together, you're going to end, you're going to end." You love the metaphor of the ship, we're on the same boat, but the captain and his assistants are unlicensed, so we're gonna change them all. Otherwise, this ship will not be able to survive the sinking. Congressmans, the situation we're in is a multi-crisis, and a significant reason for this multi-crisis is hidden in the history of this country. This country has not met the republic with democracy since it was founded. Although actors have changed for a hundred years, the order in Turkey is antidemocratic. In this country, neither a civil democratic constitution nor a democratic republic has been built, unfortunately. Every power that comes is based only on its own survival and condemns its people to misery, democracy, lawlessness, injustice at every turn. With certain periods, the political, social crisis has taken place in a multi-dimensional situation, with the transition of the presidency into the government system. This country, which was tried to be run by post-2018 autocracy, left the decision mechanisms that were abducted from the people, Parliament, and institutions at the mercy of one person in the palace. Yet, the spirit of time tells us something else: One person cannot have knowledge or authority over everything. If you glorify singleness, centrifugalism this high, it will inevitably be supported by legislation, executive, judicial and mass communication tools, academia. The multi-crisis that we're in is your sense of self-centered and monogamy. Unfortunately, in this system, the judicial institution has also lost its dignity and credibility. The Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, is not respected by its decisions, but by its ruling partners, the court must be closed against a ruling decision that disturbs power. Trust in the judiciary is down to 20 percent in society today, thanks to you. By order of the law, tens of thousands of citizens have been expelled from public duties and left to civilian death on their own terms. With these practices of extremely deep injustice and unlawful conduct, people who have no judgment have been left to die. The state of the House is clear; the executive notary is wanted to be employed as a notary. With me, those who speak of stability have become the source of instability. Look, ever since the presidential government system, which is said to fly Turkey in every sense, has been accepted by a questionable referendum, democracy, which is already a tyrant in Turkey, has begun to take a hit in every area. In Turkey, the former parliamentary system was producing problems, while the presidential government system is causing problems in a series and deepening old problems. Today's downfall is due to today's royal dynasty. It's a system that delivers the money in the pockets of the people into the pockets of the allies, the will of the people in the chest into the hands of the trustees, the appointed. You have transformed all institutions into the party units of your power through the party state system under the presidency government system. The table is in the middle; the Supreme Court party, the State's Party, the Heavy Penal Party, the Police Party, SADAT party, TUGVA party, the governor, the governor, the National Education Party; you created them. Cook whatever you want in your political kitchen, empty pots in the kitchen, we can't get through the streets. I don't give in to millions and bread lines. You will lose to those who shout, "I don't forgive my rights." It is your economy of corruption that puts Turkey first in the poverty index. It is your illegal, illegal work that brings Turkey to the 12th place in the Global Organised Crime Index, which puts FATF on the gray list. You put the country in the final positions of all international democracy and law indexes. Although the United States Summit of Democracy, which took place on December 9th and 10th, has been pretended to have never happened, let us say that Turkey has been excluded from this summit. It is diplomatic and political exclusion that there is no Turkey at the Democracy Summit, where 111 states have been called from Zambia to Ecuador. Your ruling understanding of the European Court of Human Rights has not implemented the decisions of Demirtaş and Kavala, but has also violated the European Convention on Human Rights, allowing the Council of Europe to face sanction moves. The progress reports of the European Union, which you often ignore, reveal disaster. You've replaced the Copenhagen Criters with the criteria for hostility, the lawless court criteria. There are very few states in the presidential government system. Trying to make political competition look bad, this system has made an effort to create enemies in order to maintain its own existence. Thus, opponents are seen not as political rivals, but as enemies that need to be suppressed and even purged. At the summit of social polarisation, Turkey's society is divided into separate neighborhoods where the fault lines are constantly provoked, where a common life is dynamited. You created this, you're the master of polarizing and creating tensions, but society transcends that polarization. Despite your common problems around you and meeting because you're in power, it's a new development, and it's a growth of hope. Congressmans, this new regime, which has created itself in and out of borders against Kurds, has also made the Kurdish problem unresolved. This regime, which denies the Kurds, then Kurdish, then Kurdish issue, and now Kurdish political representation, also rejects a democratic and peaceful solution. This government wants to increase conflict and security policies, leaving this vital issue unresolved. As this new system continues to disperse like an Amok runner, it does not want to talk about the Kurdish problem and democratisation in this country. You will film the Kurdish problem. Today, those who say, write the book of the economic crisis. You have denied the Dolmabahçe agreement, you have targeted the social peace agreement, there is no Kurdish problem. In exchange for saying, the structures you formed as allies gave you Tansu Ciller, Mehmet Aghas, mobsters, political brokers. You said the National Security Council is a guardianship agency. You and the National Security Council are now trying to put the biggest mortgage on the will of the Kurdish people. The Kurdish problem is a fundamental problem at the heart of all political, social and economic crises in this country. For a hundred years, the people of Turkey have been imposed as a regime of denial, assimilation, and monotheism based on oppression, yet what needs to be done is to develop the culture of living together in peace and equality, the community of volunteer unity. The people of Turkey have the power and experience to leave this heavy balance sheet behind and build a democratic republic. Congressmans, in addition to your own plans in foreign policy, you also played your roles in the Mediterranean and the Middle East line from the Eastern Mediterranean to Syria, Libya to Iraq and Afghanistan. Your president himself told me how these roles were played. I will remind you that Turkey is doing its part as a trusted ally in its territory and beyond. He said, "If the work is really put into place, we are ready to do what is left for us as Turkey." These two promises describe how you play the roles. If you had brought in the fundamental policy changes regarding peace, the rule of law, democracy, human rights, in the Parliament that you passed the declarations of war, we would be talking about stability and economic growth, not the consequences of this economic destruction. The longer you distance yourself from law and democracy, the more the economy turns into a fire, the more fuel it pours into the burning economy. As long as the Kurds agreed on international concessions, whatever roles they played in order not to build a common future in the people they live with in Syria, instead of bringing forward diplomacy, peaceful rhetoric and politics, negotiations and dialogue, you chose military operations, custody battles, conflict, historical mistakes, and so much has been lost. Only we, the Kurds, do not want to bring democratic solutions and peace to this land just for the HDP people. As the People's Democratic Party, we are ready to do everything in our power to achieve a new goal of a democratic, supervised, transparent and egalitarian country that can be held together in peace in the new era. You're not attacking us, you're attacking the hope of democracy and justice of this country. While you attack us, you undermine our common democratic future. Ending the political representation of Kurdish people and Turkish democratic forces, using the judiciary to liquidate HDP from democratic politics, is an unresolved and illegal and high price. Let's make it very clear that whoever wants to make us lose big in politics, they'll lose big in their own way. I say to your prosecutors who have set up our party for trial, who have entered the contest for promotions and awards: If you are very interested in politics, take off your robes and your courage, and go out and do politics. There is a minister of protection and crime, a photo album with a criminal is released every day; these prosecutors are silent. So you're looking for so-called justice, huh? Spare me the lies. You don't have the guts or understanding of law and justice. We will say to this power tirelessly that we are committed to democratic politics, not to conflict and violence, but to talk, to negotiate, to dialogue, to solve our problems in Ankara, and to this Parliament. In our demand for equality and our struggle, we are determined to fight the common country and democratic republic from Edirne to Hakkari, from Thrace to Kurdistan. We will bring honor and justice to this country, the bright tomorrows, to this country together. The people of Turkey are not obliged to authoritarian regimes that have been imposed on them for a hundred years. We are firmly committed to the consolidating, unifying and social justice of equality and democracy in the face of self-assembling and creating regimes through exclusion, discrimination. Dear people, our third realistic alternative to our politics of monogamy, centrifugalism, understanding of masculinity to two different blocs. Our party, based on this understanding, is a force in Turkey that will unite the republic with democracy, end this unjust order. We can build a new policy, a new government, and a new life. Today, Turkey's basic need is a strong democracy based on accession, negotiations and democratic social reconciliation, with the largest supply of universal fundamental rights and freedoms. A government where the budget is spent on palaces, on waste, on supporters, not on arms, not on interest, but on social gender-based budgets, based on regional peace and principles rather than on adventurous foreign policies. It is not too late for a system in which public administration has been deposed from the monopoly of the power block and where integrity is based on transparency, where transparency is established, an understanding of accountability, not public accountability, where equality meets equivalence, the word of the centre, not the word of the local community, and local democracy is strengthened, and its understanding is thrown into the garbage. It is possible that the law shall be carried out on the basis of justice and the balance of justice and the independence of the judiciary, and that the law shall be carried out on the basis of equality, and that the law shall be carried out on the basis of one man's custody. We can end understandings that view nature as a field of endless exploitation with greed for profit, and in all policies, especially energy, transportation, urbanization and agriculture, we can make sure that nature's rights are accepted. For the permanent and honorable solution to the Kurdish problem, it is essential to talks and democratic construction. Democracy, justice, equality, equal value and the struggle for peace do not necessarily require a new discovery each time. We're not going to take a step back from those values. The price we pay for all kinds of pressures, withdrawals, arrest threats, and proof of that in our struggle. We'll always be there where there's oppression and injustice, and we'll all win together. It is our promise to our people, that this word has made democratic social change and transformation, the struggle and the founding mind a guide to itself. As a party, we'll do all this with our people. We believe in ourselves and our peoples. We call on the ruling alliance, which insists on sinking the country just because it will win an election: no plot can and will not endure in the face of hunger, poverty, unemployment truth. And once again, let us say to you, "You are the singles, the majority of us. You are the Crouchers. We are Aaron. You are the oppressors. We are the ones who are the losers. So continue to frighten. We are the ones who are the ones who are the liars." I salute everyone, thank you for listening.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit01spe0010par0180	Dear friends, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0010par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. The first statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group now belongs to Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0011par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute and cherish all our citizens, viewers, who are monitoring budget talks from the General Assembly and screens. I wish you the best of budget negotiations. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the budget of 2022, but before 2022, some assumptions that this budget is based on have already collapsed. For example, the inflation target for 2022 is 9.8%. This target should be down by now. Again, the assumption of 2022 is $9.27, and the 2014 presumption is $10.27. On the way to the stand right now, the court had come to $17. So... this budget is going to be legalized, so it seems, but then it's going to have to be brought up with an additional budget proposal and quickly rearranged by the new figures, according to these budget laws, the income ruler. Dear lawmakers, after recent developments in courtship and interest, the problems of our economy that have existed since then have become much more severe. I want to sum up these problems very briefly. First: Turkey's economy has experienced double-digit inflation since 2017. Inflation is now above 20 percent. Even the repressed inflation figures of TİKİK (TİK) are not enough to conceal that fact. Second, it's as important as inflation: there is no expectation that inflation will fall; on the contrary, expectations are that inflation will increase. Third: Turkey's economy does not have a sustainable high growth environment. The Turkish economy is in an economic picture that will not be able to achieve even 4-4.5 per cent growth with potential. The growth of the Turkish economy is extremely important. Our national income has now gone back to 2008, and since Mr. Erdogan was elected President in 2014, our national income has been dwindling. It's not different in a person's income. There has been a regular decline in income per capita since 2014, when Mr. Erdoğan became President. Now, we have income per person seven years ago, after these developments in the wolf, in 2022 -- I was saying that the year we went back was just before 2008 -- maybe we'll go back to 2006 to 2005, and it looks like that's what it looks like, right now. Our international credit rating is 3 and 5 levels below the investment level of the country. I looked at the Turkey assessments of the senior rating agency; we're three levels below one, we're four levels below, we're five levels below one. There are a few steps to the danger threshold, so after a few steps, the Turkish economy will fall, Turkey's economy will have difficulty in borrowing, it will not be able to borrow. Our premium credit rating, as we call it, is extremely low, currently 521. This means that when Turkey borrows dollars from foreign markets in dollars, it gives interest of 7.5-8 per cent in dollars. In a time when real interest is low and zero in the world, it is never acceptable for the Turkish economy to borrow 7.5-8 per cent interest, which is a dead end. Dear MPs, this is the painting. Now, let's look at the part of Turkey's economy in the world's product: In the early 2000s, the Turkish economy was doing 0.8 per cent of the world's product; we are doing 0.8 per cent of the world's product again today from 19 years ago. 0.8; 0.8; you have zero. Isn't there a growing year in between? It has increased in 2008-2013, but since 2014, when Erdogan became President, Turkey's share in the world's product began to decline again. Again, as of the countries, Turkey was ranked 75th in 2002, and now 76th in 76. No improvement in between? It's done. There's been a improvement in 2008-2013, but since 2014, when Erdogan was elected President, we've been going back and forth. Now, what does he say, Mr. Erdogan? We will not condemn our country to seventy-four years of IMF prescriptions. We've announced an economic program. In fact, there's no economic program, there's just a mess, and it presents this: we will not condemn our country to seventy-four years of IMF prescriptions. What else does it say? He says many other things; my lord says economics and political mandarins, yes, the mandarins say. Now, let's see if that's true. Let's go to March 1, 2003. The Z generation doesn't know this, but I consider it a duty to remind them, the Z generation knows everything, knows everything, but it's a reminder of the historical past. AK PARTY is now in power. US troops will use Turkey's territory to enter Iraq, to overthrow Saddam, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must allow it. The elders of the AK PARTY went to America, and they negotiated with President Bush, and they will receive money. They've even come up to 128 billion dollars. The money will be taken, what will be done? The IMF program is being implemented. It's from the previous government. The IMF will be expelled from Turkey. The EC PARTI has written in the election declaration: "We will fire the IMF and the World Bank." They came back empty-handed. The March 1st thesis was not accepted in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Hand in hand, head in. The years that AK PARTY called it were the years when we changed the shirt. Yes, if it had been in the past, you might have said, "Sir, it doesn't matter, we'll get out of here by hanging on to the rope of God. What did you do? You held onto the rope of the IMF. Yes, did relations with the IMF remain here? We're out. It's been tasted. Loans from the previous government, from the stand-by agreement, were used. And then what? A stand-by agreement was signed with the IMF in May 2005. Mr. Erdoğan is the Prime Minister's term. Ten billion dollars in loans. They used it, they used it. Now, Mr. Erdogan says that when we were in office, there was $23.5 billion in debt to the IMF, and we paid every penny of it. Well, you took $10 billion of it by making a deal, and you took it very well. What's he saying now? We will not condemn our country to seventy-four years of IMF prescriptions. When I say seventy-four years, Turkey made its first agreement with the IMF in 1947. He says, "Let me correct that; Turkey has become a member of the IMF in 1947, it has not made a deal; let me present it as information. It says: "You've signed the 20th Stand-by Agreement, now you're saying it's rotten." According to this Stand-by Agreement, you also made a $70 billion privatisation. What he's really trying to say is that the IMF has deceived us. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, what is the painting that our country put before us? It's a Chinese model. The historical direction of Turkey has always been the West. Turkey was declared a full member of the European Union at the summit in Helsinki on 10 December 1999. I thank the parties that form the coalition government of time -- the Democratic Left Party, the National Movement Party and the Motherland Party -- for this historic event; it was very important, and the entire Parliament stood behind it at the time, so let me express it. Then, in 2004, in the two-party Turkish Grand National Assembly -- the AKP and the Republican People's Party -- Erdogan's talks with the European Union were made to strengthen Turkey's hand, and we also agreed. And on 17 December 2004, talks with Turkey in Brussels were agreed to begin on 3 October 2005, fine. These two dates are a turning point in Turkey-EU relations in Turkey's history, which is very important. Twenty-one years have passed since the Helsinki Summit, 16 years since the Brussels Summit; full membership to the EU is not on the agenda of power, they can give a lot of reasons. Now, what are they saying? Sir, the Chinese model. What, are we always heading west, now you're leading us to the East? It's a Chinese model. What's a Chinese model? It's a model based on gaining a competitive force, where work is oppressed, with an authoritarian regime, without ecological concerns, with the cost of labor reduced; a model that destroys the middle class. There's no democratic regime. When you say the Chinese model, there's no way that the system today can be implemented without an authoritarian regime in China. Is such a thing in the back of Erdogan's head? It's already going towards him, and Turkey has thrown aside certain freedoms, the state of law, all these concepts. It could be something like that in the head. I'm going to say, look, this is the 19-year power of the AK PARTY, and the final turn of Mr. Erdoğan's personalized power, the confession of hunger, exhaustion, despair; that's the case. (HPP clapping in rows) Now, over this ineptness is being tried to cover it with a cover called the Chinese model. If you had invested in education, invested in technology, invested in the future instead of the Chinese model, Turkey today would have been one of the number-one countries in the world. The Chinese model, he says. Look, we've raised the minimum wage, the minimum wage has gone up, and I'll come to minimum wage, but since it's coming from China, I'd like to give you an example. China has two companies among the 10 major companies in the world: Alibaba group, e-commerce company; Tencent, artificial intelligence, technology, Internet... Alibaba was founded in 1999, the other was founded in 1998, so if Erdoğan had invested in education, if he had invested in technology, invested in the future, if he had invested in young people today, Turkey would have one technology company among the top 10 major companies in the world; this would show Turkey's development, unfortunately... Now, it is often called the generation of Asim. Yes, the generation of Asim. I'm talking about the bloodline of Asim. The ideal character of Mehmet Akif. The idealized character of youth; there is no moral, intelligent, no evil like his name; there is an ideal youth; there is one thing: Asim goes to Berlin to study science; look, science is not in Turkey at that time; think about those years; it goes there to study science. Now in Turkey, unfortunately, students are looking for a cure abroad because there is no way to learn science in Turkey. Now, dear lawmakers, I'm looking at the clock from one side, and it's been 15 minutes, and I'm afraid the account at home sometimes doesn't fit in the market, so we're going to shorten it a little bit. Now Mr. Erdogan says, "Nas." He says, "Yes, the Koran order, the Quran and the circumcision, the command of God, the word of the prophet, whatever the Qur'an and the circumcision says, I am on this road." About what? About interest. I was against interest yesterday, and I'm against it today, and I'll be against it tomorrow. Well, good, actually, this is, uh, this sentence, uh, hello to the selector of the national opinion, there's really no such thing. Can I have the vote of the Party of Saadet for the upcoming Presidential elections? It's nothing more than a concern, but the selector of the national opinion is smart, sees them, assesses them, won't swallow them. Now, yes, the interest of the Central Bank has gone down from the 19 to the 15th, and has been reduced to 14 yesterday. I've done an evaluation on 15 and it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. The consumer loan interest has increased by 1.5 points, the car loan interest has increased. I thought you said when the interest went down, when the Federal Reserve dropped the interest, all the interest would go down. There's no such thing. Trade interest's down, but it's about two and a half points. What's the citizen doing? He gets the loan, even if it's a loan, even if it's a consumer loan, he buys it, goes to dollars, doesn't trust you. Now, the BDK has made a statement: we will supervise them. He says something half-assed, he has no legal authority. If a citizen goes to the bank, I get a loan. Where will the bank say you're going to use it? So one company goes, buys commercial loans, takes e, invests dollars. As a matter of fact, those commercial companies are going up in dollar deposits, so let's let the fellas see. But you know what? As the Central Bank reduced policy interest, the Treasury' debt cost increased. The central bank's interest was 19 per cent, and the Treasury was debted by 17.67 per cent in the September tender, and the central bank's interest was reduced to 15 per cent, and the debt interest of the treasury increased by 22.70 per cent, up 5 points. So, what was he saying, Erdogan? There's no harm in lowering the interest, except in making money out of money. Those who make money out of money now make five points more than those who say, "Oh, it's good." What are the banks doing? He takes 15 percent of the money from the National Bank in Ulus, goes to the Treasury Building on Eskişehir Road, and gives it to the Treasury at 22.70. Do you have any rights? Does power have a right to that? Does the citizen have the right to waste his money, his stamp, the government's treasure? Now, on the side of deposit interest, deposit interest is down. The central bank's interest was 19%, and the deposit interest was 17.5 per cent below that. Why? Underinflation, deposit interest. The citizen trusts the position of the Central Bank to be firm and to beat inflation. He keeps his money in Turkish lira, keeping it at 17.5 per cent. Now the Central Bank has reduced interest. How much did the deposit interest go down to? I'm telling 14.5 percent, a monthly deposit, and it's even worse with the others. Now, banks reduce the interest of citizens, millions of citizens, small savings owners -- Ayşe, Fatma, Hussein -- of their $10,000, $20,000, $30,000, under inflation, give them interest, and banks give the deposits to Treasury at 14.5 per cent, including 22.70 per cent. Mr. Erdogan, is there anything that allows you to steal a citizen's money like this, to take less money out of a citizen's pocket? (HPP and GOOD PARTY) It's called papal capitalism. Erdogan's model is called "The Vultures" (the vultures are being fed to the vultures). [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Besides, yesterday you didn't say low interest, Mr. Erdogan, you didn't say low interest. I'm going to show you a painting; I have some paintings here, and I can't show them all, but I want to show you this. Look, I've shown this before in a Finance Ministry budget. In 2003-2007, the interest on state debt bonds is 10%, real interest; this is real, over inflation interest. You were giving me 10%, and yesterday I was against interest. There's no such thing. Now real interest is zero percent, even zero, now zero, so it's zero after final decisions. Investments increased by 19 per cent compared to the previous year when Real interest was 10 per cent. The interest is high, how does investment go up? Artar friends, if they can see the future, people, investors, they can do the math, they can invest. If you can't see the future, there's no increase in investment. See here, in 2008-2014, real interest has gone down to 2, investment growth is 7, according to him, came here in September 2018-2021, which is now zero. There's no such thing as high interest, low interest is always better. It's low interest, but if you've ruined everything in the economy, you'll have to pay high interest, maybe you'll have to. This is Murat Çetinkaya, Murat Uysal, Naci Ağbal, the current President. In 2019-2020, you know, $128 billion was sold. So the policy at the time was that the dollar that didn't exist was sold, so, from the banks, with the swings, that money was collected, put on the market. The market is given TL loans, the going loans are directed at dollars, dollars are put on the market to suppress the dollar; this is the era. The success of selling 128 billion dollars, such as the interim machine of Con Ahmet. At the end of the two years, the $5.46 dollar bill at the beginning of 2009, to raise it to $8.53 at the end of the year (!) You showed me. You've sold 128 billion dollars, you've made the dollar bill jump 50 percent. I'll say it's the most expensive economics class in the world, but you didn't take this class; my son reads the building, turns around, reads it again. (CHP clapping in rows) Now, the central bank is jumping, and the central bank is being coy. Don't look, he doesn't have any money, because he's got no money, he's got 8.53. Naci Agbal comes, raises interest to 19. He brings it down to a dry 7.22, which is 8,53. There is a period when it descends to 6.90, and then it is destroyed. The current president is coming in, it's coming in; the interest has gone down to 14, the courtship is now $16, but that may have changed by the time he gets on the stand. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm running out of time. I said, "Akbaba capitalism," and I'll give you an example of nuts: Turkey is the world's largest manufacturer of nuts, producing three-quarters of the world's production, selling three-quarters of its produce abroad. I looked at Giresun's Trade Exchange records: the office bought nuts for $27.44 in October, and the office declared a price of $26.5, which means the rate is a little good, 27.44, and then it comes to $8.88, e, I'm counting, $3.1. Turkey has exported nuts since 2015-2016 at $3.1-3.2. I'm not saying 2014-2015, it's $6. Now, I'm looking at this dollar, and I'm counting on dry, and the nut price is down to $2. I said $3.1, so let's say it goes down to a dollar or 2.8, let's say it goes down to $2.1 pounds, the manufacturer goes down, and we're going to export it at that price. $600 million if we export 600,000 tons. Mr. Erdogan, do you have the right to offer 600 million dollars of the nut manufacturer to Italian Ferrero, European Nutella consumers, chocolate consumers?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0012par0030	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0011par0031	At one time, the French government gave a Minister of Agriculture the knighthood for his contributions to French agriculture. I believe that chocolate and Nutella consumers will not fail to give Mr. Erdogan a medal due to his 600 million dollar support. And that's vulture capitalism. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, actually, I want to come to this minimum wage, minimum wage is a very important issue. The minimum wage was announced yesterday. I'm doing the math; yesterday it was $274; when I was working with my noon adviser, it came to $266, it came to $259; I came here with the General Assembly, it came to $259; it was $251 when I got off the stand; now I don't know how much it's going to be when I get off the stand. So, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, our chairman of the $4,250, made a statement yesterday; this was $384 at the beginning of 2021, which is $5,760, so it would mean something if you gave it to him... So? No. And this populism, is everything in dollars? Look, I've taken the numbers; I've taken the December dollar notes since 2007. Since 2007, the minimum wage is always over $300 in December; $330, 350, $370, $380. Now, minimum wage is $274. In fact, it's not right to compare it now, but in December of next year, you have to compare it, but for a measurement, I'm telling you now. Excuse me, it's not 274; now it's down to 250 on its way to the stand, and let's see what happens when it comes down. Now, sir, do you live in dollars, not dollars? Look, I've taken December courses. Let's get out of the bread, bread: In January of this year, $1.883 would be taken from $1.883, and now there's a demand for a raise of $2.5. I suppose it'll happen in the first months of next year, I don't know, but a demand like this is expected; I'm counting on $2.50 -- 1,700 bread. Where's 183 bread? Now, don't come up to me and say, "Sir, no, that's his grammar. No, brother, you condemned people to bread. In economics, we learned one thing at school, the Giffen paradox: When a product's price goes up, demand doesn't go down, it can go up. Like him, it's not the same, but like him; now people are eating more bread. Why? Because the money he's going to spend on other foods has been reduced, he says, "Let me be satisfied with bread." Dear MPs, of course, I don't mean the AK PARTY Group, but the staff that runs Turkey is not interested. Tahsin Yücel has a novel in the sky; it's a beautiful novel, it tells of 2073 Istanbul. And there is a skyscraper, and there is a garden in Jahangir, and a two-story house in Jahangir, and there is a builder, and he wants to build a skyscraper. He describes it with a beautiful fiction, such as privatisation policies, a system where even the judiciary is privatized, where Tahsin Yücel has analyzed them very well, the struggle of that man. The skyscrapers have become so abundant that the rich no longer live on the top floor, land on the ground, travel there with helicopters or those one-man flying devices brought by technology, they don't know about it, they don't know about it. There's no question that the people in the palace are walking among the citizens from the red carpets in hotels, they don't know the status of the citizens anymore. If they knew about your condition... they'd say Tahsin Yücel called the people of the year, so people would imagine people like hungry, miserable, straying horses in nature. And by yours, of course, I mean the executive staff, they don't know all this because they've gone from godfearing to freedom of sin. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD Party rows]] I'm running out of time, precious MPs, and I'll give you my last words. Now, the staff that ran Turkey had local cars in the years before they changed shirts, the TOFAS, the Hawks, the Renaults; behind them they wrote something called peace Islam. He wrote in peaceful Islam. You know what just happened? First the shirt was changed, then the cars were changed, then the neighborhood was moved to new houses, and now there's nothing written on the back of those millions of dollars of cars that were used to go to those new houses; they seem to have found peace!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0013par0042	Mr. Hamzacebi, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0011par0043	Thank you, I'm completing it, Mr. President. Finally, I want to show you a picture. That's the picture, the picture of the old neighborhood where the people in the palace don't go anymore, the cheap bread lines. In the 19th year of his rule, the EC PARTY condemned our people to cheap bread lines. (HlP and PD) Good thing there's Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality; good thing there are CHP municipalities; at least they're giving cheap bread to citizens. He's stuck around, I'm afraid. It's good for you to go and visit these neighborhoods once in a while, dear friends. Thank you. I wish this budget would be good, even if we don't. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0014par0049	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to İstanbul MP İlhan Kesici. Here you go, Mr. Slasher. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0054	Mr. President, I would like to present my views on the Republican People's Party Group on the offer of the Central Management Budget Law for the year 2022. On behalf of myself and the Republican People's Party Group, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, we're going through the most important days of Turkish economic history. In this regard, I would like to make my criticism of the economy and my criticism of the presidential government system with more attention and courtesy of my views. The budget in your presence is a budget which, as our friend Akif Hamzacebi stated earlier, has now become a bear, as the former speakers have expressed. The budget was presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 17 October 2021, exactly two months ago; then the dollar was dry 9.2, so the monetary value of our budget was $195 billion in dollars. Now it's a $195.90 number -- a budget reduced to $106 billion -- so within two months, our budget is now worth $195 billion in dollars two months ago, and now it's gone down to $106 billion. This is no longer a budget, nor is it possible to accept it as a budget. Dear lawmakers, the basis of economics and all budgets is the primary goal of resource allocation policies, so how do you allocate resources? Whether the source is small or large, the question is how to allocate it. Now, in a budget that goes down from $195 billion to $100 billion, there's no way there's a fund-raiser policy left, it's out of the question. In this regard, this is not a budget. But let's say this never happened, and if we were to make an assessment of the budget as it was presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to bring three numbers and three issues to their attention. One: We've been sleeping with it for weeks, morning and evening, and all the talks. Now, let's see, there's a figure in this budget, originally put into interest in the budget of 2022: 240 billion Turkish liras, over. Maybe it's good, maybe it's bad, you have to compare it to a few things. Two: The budget of the Ministry of National Education is in the same budget. Our Ministry of National Education means 18 million students, 1.2 million teachers, teachers... 189 billion liras assigned to them. We have 7.9 million, 8 million students in our universities, in our higher education -- for example, common -- in our open education, we have almost 200,000 faculty members. Let's gather them all, all of Turkey's schools have about 30 million students; there are about 2 million professors, teachers, teachers, teachers, and 30 million people who will shape our next 50 years, will do the work that will carry us over the 21st century, and they will be trained. The total number that we've allocated is 248 billion Turkish liras, even if the currencies haven't been broken. So it's the same number that's been earmarked for the education of our 30 million students and our teacher, which he's just earmarked for 2022 in an interest pen. No good comes out of this, our dear MPs, our dear AK PARTY brothers, our friends, there's no good coming out of this for Turkey. I'd like to give you a third number: the number of agricultural support is 26 billion Turkish liras. WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, it passed a law that it believed that the agricultural sector needed more support in 2006, that it should not be reduced in every budget: the Agricultural Support Act. According to this law, the number that is going to be divided into agricultural support in each annual budget can't be less than 1 percent of the national income; let's even it out, it could be over 1 percent of the national income, but let's even it out, 1.1% of this year's national income is worth 78 billion Turkish dollars, so we, by budget law, have crushed a law that we've already made, we've beaten it, we've nullified it, we're doing it ourselves. Now, what does this mean, 26 billion Turkish liras at the same time? We have about 5-5.5 million workers, we have a farmer, about 10 percent of our national income -- visible invisible -- is our agricultural sector, the money we've set aside in the direction of the development of this agricultural sector is 26 billion dollars, the interest is 240 billion dollars; it's 9 times that. Now, what was the result? As a result, a long time ago, the Turkish farmer has become offended by his land; the Turkish feeder has become offended by the animals he sees as the light of his eye; as a result, we have Australia at one end of the world; we import red meat from Australia; on the other end, Brazil, Argentina, we import white meat from them; on top of them, North America, we import products, we import corn from them. They are distant lands; we have Greece next to us; we import cotton from Greece; we have Bulgaria next to us; we import hay from Bulgaria. There can't be such a Turkey, such a Turkey doesn't suit us, it doesn't suit Turkey, it doesn't suit the Turkish nation. The reason for this is that the European Union -- for example, the world is one of the sectors that supports the agricultural sector around the world; it's one of the sectors that is looked at as a light of the eye; in this context, it's supported. We do, too, like I just said, very little. The European Union's support... since the European Economic Community, the most successful policy field of the European Union, the economic policy area, is what they call the common agricultural policy, which is a common agricultural policy that will satisfy both agricultural producers and consumers at the same time. This year's budget for their own farmers, their common agricultural policy, is the euro that corresponds to 45 billion dollars; the Turkish lira is worth around 125 thousand lira per farmer, which is about $15,000. When we split 26 billion dollars per farmer, that's 5,000 Turkish liras. So when the European Union, for example Bulgaria, next to us, Greece -- the example I've given -- gives its own farmers $120,000 agricultural support per farmer, and we only have to import hay from Bulgaria when we give it a 5,000-dollar agricultural support, we have to import hay from Bulgaria. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, when both last year's budget and debates in the Plan and Budget Commission were criticised for the purpose of importing this straw, he used one of the last places where he was criticized to say: "We have money, we have foreign currency, and we import it." We don't have money to import hay, import cotton, import red meat, we don't have currency, but, well, we import it, what do we do? Now, we'll see in a moment, we borrowed it. We borrowed this state almost to the point of ruining it. And our band listens so quietly, so quietly, so quietly. (CHP and GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE) I actually liked it a lot.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0016par0063	We're paying attention.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0064	Dear lawmakers, this budget, of course, is not just a budget that the AK PARTI government has prepared for today, but it has a savings. So this is a budget that's gone above and beyond a savings, these numbers. It's probably my belief that these budget negotiations will be the last budget talks this semester, so it'll be an early election. But in this regard -- a few, not too many -- I'd like to present some numbers again in three large areas: one, a public look. Let's take these 19 years one at a time. We have a great statesman and poet in the middle of the 1800s, Ziya Pasha. Since he had seen the likes of them from 1850, a hundred and fifty, seventy years ago, he said: "The ritual is the work of one's mouth, not one's mouth, not one's mind. " Sir, I was flying, I was running away. I was saying that in these days. Let's look at your work to measure your rank. Dear lawmakers, we have a variety of trade fields -- these 19 years -- we buy, sell, make, produce, export, import, and call them foreign trade. Our import is $3.7 trillion, our export is $2.6 trillion. If we look at these two, we're minus $1.1 trillion short on foreign trade. That's a lot of money, almost half of our total export. That's the number that's going to break our backs in the budget now, 2022, and in the budgets that are coming next, that's going to eat up our marrow, our bones, and that's what's going to trouble us with the troubles: over $1 trillion of foreign trade deficits. We have other foreign currency revenues, so we have money from tourism, services and so forth. There's a number that we don't win when we put them in, which we don't, but we do, which is $591 billion, which is called a current transaction deficit, which is clear. "Cari" is for us to spend money that isn't ours. Once upon a time, there was no issue as long as the deficit of transactions was financed. We had the adjectives, which were both inside the government and outside the AK PARTI government. Perhaps, in my opinion, one of the things that led to the events that brought us to this day is this kind of confusion.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0017par0066	Kemal is Dervis.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0067	Now, one of our great bureaucrats of the Tanzimat era, Fuat Pasha of our executives, and he has a father, Izet Molla of Kechecizadeh; he's a derogatory, high-ranking religious scholar, his last mission was Meccan Ladyship. There were similar circumstances at the time when there was a mosque that said, "There is no sin with evil." Yeah, well, what's the big deal? This is the state, the Ottoman state, the great empire of Jihan. Well, what could be worse than what sin can't destroy, and this state is being destroyed? It's this: The memory of the people -- it does it -- it does it -- it does it -- it destroys the intimacy of the scholars, of the leading people, the journalists, the writers, the painters, the businessmen, the politicians, whatever you can think of. We've already seen his results and everything. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD Party rows]] Now, dear lawmakers, what did we do all this with? We've given the transaction deficit, we've given the foreign trade deficit, but we've imported the hay, we've imported the cotton. How did we do that? It's a loan, isn't it? The debt, the loan from the purse. Now, when the AK PARTY came to power, including the IMF debt, you could think of any external debt you could think of, add it all, the Turkish public sector owed $87 billion. What do you expect? That's one of the things that led us to the 2000-2001 crisis. This is now $207 billion, so let me skip the present. At the end of 2002, $87 billion is the sum of all debts the republic has made in 80 years, so in 80 years, we borrowed $87 billion in foreign debt, we did it. AK PARTY added $120 billion to it in 19 years, $120 billion. The Turkish private sector also has an external debt, 45 billion dollars, now $245 billion. The Turkish private sector added $200 billion to the Turkish industrial private sector. I'm happy to say that it's Turkey's debt. Now, in the outside world, when we're looking for any debt, one of the most important elements of the country's risk is the country's external debt indicators, not just the public sector, but all Turkey's external debt indicators, and this is too much. So, with the private sector's external debt, the public sector's external debt is 132 billion dollars, and I don't mean the debt added by the AK PARTI -- the level it's reaching -- $320 billion; it's a lot.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0018par0071	Well, well, well.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0072	It can't be endured, it can't be endured. Now, what I'm saying is that there's $120 billion in foreign debt added to the public sector's external debt, and then there's the privatisation, right? 76 billion dollars, 70-odd billion dollars. What if, in case it wasn't $70 billion, we'd have to add it over $120 billion for the right account, or we'd have to subtract it from the $87 billion part of the public, so let's compare it to the right one. Two, right next to him, these public-private collaborative projects are unpredictable; no accounts, no books. There's a treasure guarantee that we don't know how much they've been given, that we haven't seen the feasibility report on a single A4 page, that we haven't seen. Now, at the end of all this, there's a debt to the household. When we came to power, the AK PARTY, we now used consumer loans, mortgages, car loans, need loans, and so on -- they were $4 billion in dollars. The current version of this is 104, so the $4 billion debt has been added to $100 billion in carpet debt. Let me give you some of these numbers for this: there were times when our executives, some EC PARTY, and the authorities in the presidential government system, and some of our ministers in between, we were in abundance, and as of the ages, they were meant for the ball. This whole thing, which they call baseball, from the beginning of its first year, is the abundance of debt. (HPP) Otherwise, in our culture, there is another abundance, which we call the blessing of Abraham, Halil Abraham. If we hit this economy, it's an abundance of investments, productions, efficiency that never happened. Congressmans, now, that's good, we've got the debt; good, good, but we didn't get it for free, we got it for something, there's a price. That price -- forgive me, it's in my mouth -- interest. Now, we're sleeping together every day again, and that's what the Central Bank has done with the policy interest. So we have allameihans like this. Sir, he's raised 100 base points at work. What's happening is 1 percent. It's down to 1 percent. It's down to 2 percent. Say, "Blah, blah, blah," and people get it right. 100 base points. 300 base points. The figure that we paid for this interest -- in line with the debt we just said -- the figure that the public sector paid for foreign debt interest, the foreign debt interest, $89 billion, and the private sector just used it. The amount he pays is also $108 billion, which the private sector pays as foreign debt interest. So as the Turkish state, as the Turkish economy, let's say the interest paid to both the public and the private sector and the outside world, this foreign debt, the money we've paid to London's lenders over the course of nineteen years is $197 billion; that's a lot. And the figure of interest that our government has paid in dollars in return for the domestic debt in terms of converting the internal economy, I'm going to put it in a properly calculated statement -- $436 billion in dollars. Now, let me just add up the public sector: $89 billion in foreign debt interest, $436 billion in domestic debt, the interest he's paying is $525 billion. If we, as the state in nineteen years, call it the state, the interestrs, if you say anything else, the interest we pay them is $525 billion. Now, Mr. Lawmakers, I am not, of course, a traitor, in order to make it so that the AK PARTY executives, the AK PARTY governments, and then the presidential government's government would have a picture like this. But what happened? Why did this happen? What happened? We've become more and more institutionalized state apocalypse, without institutions. It's a matter of number one. Two: I'm sorry about those who know, but we had to face this situation when you brought them all together. Now, hasn't that ever been warned? I, for example -- I think it's offensive to say, "I am," but when I say, "The People's People's Republican Party Group" -- that's exactly what I've been doing on this bench since 2007, all the budget closing talks I've been doing since 2007. From 2007... there's a song I love in these Nakshi ruins, which I love very much: "Wake up my eyes, wake up my eyes, wake up." (CHP and HYP rows) Now say this, my brother, or, wake up! This isn't the last day it's been like this since day one, day two, day three. I said, then, in 2015, it's winter on this bench again, in terms of being in December. In my budget speech in 2017, winter didn't cut me off. I said black winter is coming. In 2019, I gave a budget speech again, and it didn't stop in the black winter, and I said, "The nuclear winter is coming." Well, he's here, he's at our door, isn't he? (CHP and GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE) He didn't listen to it. In his opening statement, Mr. President had a question again about this famous 128 billion dollars. He asked, "Where is this 128 billion dollars?" Our friends from the AK PARTY group, and our friend, the Deputy Director of the Group, said to Mr. President, "Ask İlhan Kesici. Ask İlhan Kesici." Now, Mr. President asked me, of course, what is this? Ask İlhan Kesici... (Laughter, applause) (CHP rows) I'm here now as Ilhan Kesici. What is this 128 billion dollars, what is it, where is it, what has happened?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0019par0080	It's on the record, it's on the record.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0081	It's on the record, exactly. What's the reason why it's on the record? It's because of you... Mr. Osman is a respected President of our NATO Parliament Assembly and a friend of mine. It's on the record. I just got this question in the last three minutes of a net two-and-a-half-hour television show, and I gave him a two-and-a-half, three-minute response. And then we had fifteen, twenty-two seconds of this cut-and-budget, and we had an image of our friends from the AK PARTY -- probably from the AK PARTY, as far as I'm concerned -- that they did these things -- like Mr. Osman said -- that's what he said.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0020par0083	The trolls of Osman.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0084	They asked me -- and I'm giving a very advanced warning -- in fact, a very advanced warning -- that this Turkish state is a recordist state, and from its first day on, it records everything that goes on from Osman Gazi, and even takes so much of it -- for our friends -- let me tell you, Fatih Sultan Mohammed Khan -- that all the food he eats at breakfast is recorded in Topkapi Palace. That's why I'm saying it's on the record. E, now, this is recording. Who knows about this? Do I know? Not at all. Does anyone else know? For example, if it wasn't presented to Mr. President, would Mr. President know? No, he can't. Does anyone know? I do. Who? Two people: one, the president of the Central Bank; two, then the Secretary of Treasury and Finance. Other than that, none knows. Later, I called for the president of the Central Bank and the Treasury and the Minister of Finance to make a statement on this cross-section. The call has been located. The president of the Central Bank, but in a very low voice, he said in a voice, as if he didn't say: There is a protocol called the 2017 protocol. Then we found out that a protocol was signed between the Treasury and the Central Bank in 2017. This protocol -- it seems to me -- is a framework protocol; we don't know the inside. Two days after that, the Treasury and Finance Minister made a statement, and he said, again, a low voice: a protocol was made in 2019, a protocol between the Central Bank and the Treasury, but something else is a little bit more full.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0021par0085	There's a problem with the vocal cords.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0086	Yeah, that's the expression I'm talking about. That's the 2019 protocol where the calf's tail is cut off. What's this? At what point did the Central Bank hand over something to the Treasury under such protocol? Then what did the Treasury do? We have a reporter's bank, Agriculture Bank. The Turkish state's bank of reporters is the Bank of Agriculture of the Republic of Turkey. Something happened between the Treasury and the Agriculture Bank. Now -- I'm collecting -- that means it's in the records.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0022par0089	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0090	How long do we have to keep asking that question? Until these records are in the archives, Turkey must ask, "Where is the account of the 128 billion dollars?" until the Topkapı Palace is able to replace the food he ate at Fatih Sultan Mehmet's breakfast. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD Party rows]] Congressmans, I'm not the kind of person who likes to say all this. I mean, I don't want you to think at all that it gives me pleasure, it doesn't give me any satisfaction, my heart hurts, and my heart cries, but our parties are different...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0023par0094	Mr. Slasher, we'll add one minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0095	We're on our way, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not something that gives me pleasure, and it's not something that gives anyone pleasure. Our parties are different, but our fate is the same, our fate is shared. If a mistake is made, it is our pleasure to reveal our common destiny, our common distress, and seek a solution together. In this great assembly -- God forbid, God forbid -- there is a fire that is worth this much to the AK PARTY, to the Republican People's Party, to the Nationalist Movement Party, to the Iİ Party, to HDP, to all of us. There is no such thing. There is no such thing as "God forbid, God forbid"; it burns us all, and destroys us all. So, now, Turkey sees that these things are no longer manageable.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0024par0099	We'll give Mr. Kesici another minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0100	Aye, aye, with one more minute of begging... Turkey is not governed, Turkey is thrown away; there is only one solution, lawmakers, and only one solution. From this moment on, the current presidential government system and the administration of Turkey, the Turkish nation's confidence has been reset, there is no trust left. This can't go on like this. In my opinion, this is not because of economic reasons, from the nine liras of the wolf, but because of the lack of confidence in politics, this is distrust of the rule of Turkey. There's only one way to get over it, so when there's a lot of trouble in these situations, you're going to say, "We're right, we're right." We'll say, "No, you're not. Then a referee needs an application. That referee is the people.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0024par0104	Just one more minute... Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0106	The end, the end... He is the judge, the people, and we thought he was the judge. (CHP and GOOD Party rankings) This is now inevitable. I believe that the person who entered the trunk... Only God knows who will come out of the chest and who will come out of it with the polls, and you will come out of it, and so will we. If you leave, you will repair all the trust, disbelief, insecurity that has been lost, a new five years will be a strong, powerful five years in front of you; it will be good for Turkey, or we will. Who are we? We are the National Alliance of the Republican People's Party and the Good Party together as of today. As of the coming days, we are the National Alliance, along with other parties that we long to join, hoping to join.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0025par0110	Mr. Kesci, your time is up again.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0111	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0025par0112	One more minute, finish it, Mr. Kesici, and this will be the last time.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0113	The first thing we're going to do is we're going to do what we call augmented, improved parliamentary system. But what's it gonna do? So we reinforced it, we healed it, we switched to a parliamentary system. It's a re-enactment of the state. In Turkey, the state will re-emerge. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD Party rows]] Two, this period of unscheduledness, lack of programming, lack of accountability, lack of books will be over. (Applause from the CHP and the Party rankings) Turkey will be re-entered by state institutions, re-planning, re-programming, re-calculus books. Congressmans, I'm going to take my word for it. Thank you for my concern with the president. As far as we're concerned, the Republican People's Party Group... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I guess we'll be given half a second, let it be heard, or the color of our vote won't be clear.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0026par0119	Mr. Kesci, okay, I added four minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0120	The color of our vote should be clear, and so should I.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0027par0121	To greet you, sir...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0122	It's just, hey, for God's sake, we have so much law, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0028par0123	Member of our Commission, give me one more minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0015par0124	The color of our vote is rejected, and we vote as the Republican People's Party. But I wish that this budget, no matter what size, would be a blessing to our country, to our country, to our nation, to our people. On behalf of myself and the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you with the highest respect. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit02spe0029par0127	Dear friends, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0029par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first word belongs to the Vice President and İstanbul MP, Mr. Numanürmiş. Here you go, Mr. Survivor. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0030par0008	Reverend President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all with my most sincere, most heartfelt feelings. I'd like to start by saying, "By God, it's the beginning of every good." Today is the last day of these talks, and from the beginning of the negotiations, I sincerely thank all our fellow MPs, who have been carefully and diligently following the work of the General Assembly, and in this framework, our friends who have contributed to the 2022 budget due to negotiations. During that time, we also witnessed meetings where tensions are sometimes expressed, where tensions are sometimes expressed, during 12 days of talks, but when we look at the majority of today's meeting, I'd like to express my satisfaction in seeing a highly compatible and leveled discussion being held, and because this is the last day, it's a positive reflection in the talks. My dear friends, first of all, when we were making this opening statement, we expressed a desire on behalf of our nation: "Yes, the cost of life, the rise of inflation upwards, but the large percentages of our nation have a reasonable minimum wage for minimum wage, and hopefully, our government will be pleased with this fair minimum wage for all communities. This will determine a price it calls for. We have made it clear to all communities. Thankfully, during the last session, the minimum salary announced by Mr. President yesterday has greatly satisfied all segments in Turkey. The minimum salary of $4,253 is. Yes, at least a significant support for boosting some of our citizens' buying power. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On this occasion, I have a debt of gratitude to all ministry employees who have been working during these collective negotiations, to the employee and employer's side, and especially to our nation, and to our nation, to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who assures us that he can provide a great comfort to our nation. I also think that the decontamination of tax loads on minimum wage, not just minimum wage, will also contribute to the positive development of the environment that has been broken recently due to this inflationary pressure in Turkey. On this occasion, in the coming year, along with the new year's mass talks, we know that the difference that the civil servants have come to, hopefully, in this new situation, will be justified, and we hope that a very large number of officers will come to a more comfortable place from New Year's. Dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to start by saying once again that Turkey has no choice but to be strong, great Turkey again, in this very economic and political environment of the world. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to share a few of the milestones of Turkey's march, which is in the direction of Turkey's great, powerful Turkey, as time has given its time, with our dear fellow members of the General Assembly, Turkey's public opinion. First, I'd like to share with you five or six of the basic orientations in Turkey's new economic policy or economic march on its path: it has just been expressed, one of Turkey's most fundamental problems since the end of the Ottoman period, unfortunately, is the savings deficit. Everyone in this room knows we're having trouble finding resources to make investments because our nation doesn't have enough savings. There's a solution in two main axes -- and I'm speaking in between, knowingly -- one of them is either taking in the money that you don't have at high interest, and in return for that, you're going to pay a price, and you're going to move on to high interest-low currency, or you're going to start to set your course in a sense of determination that will increase the production power of Turkey with its own resources. This is the direction Turkey has been developing since May, not the issue of 2013 -- not today. I'd like to share a few of Turkey's basic preferences on this road. First of all, I want to say that Turkey will never give up this policy with investment, production, employment, exports and growth, and we will move on by mobilising all of our resources. But in doing so, as some say, we will never give up the rules of the free market economy. Turkey will continue its walk in the direction of a free market economy, equipped with social policy, surrounded by truly ethical rules. I draw it in thick lines because just a few days ago, unfortunately, the fact that some were talking about the economic State of Emergency on the coast in a way that was out of line has raised significant concerns in Turkey and Turkey's environments following Turkey from the outside. Once again, we say it very clearly: an expression such as the Economic State of Emergency is out of bounds, so let no one think about it, Turkey is moving in terms of the free market economy. But we've seen that a phrase was put out, especially on social media who was behind who. So I want to underline that. Our second basic point, in our economic orientation, is to let Turkey's people live. With its motto, I'd like to stress once again that we're extraordinarily thorough in maintaining the individual-pian-state balance. In this sense, a social order that prioritizes human rights and freedom, a market system that operates on the rule of law, is an essential element of our economic model. And for what it's worth, when you look at economic development arguments, some of them make economic development and democracy seem anti-existent to each other. In Turkey's economic history and today's EC PARTY, the economy and democracy must walk side by side with the government. As we saw before World War II, it is never, ever thought to go from democracy to some restrictions to ensure economic development, as we saw in the fascist Germany. For this, we have to improve democratic standards as well as promote economic development; this is one of our second basic lines. Again, in the same way, we will never honor what international institutions, especially the IMF, look economically, but in order to establish political custody structures -- without paying attention to the arguments of any of the internal and external custody centers that impose their programmes on us for the fair and balanced development of society, will never follow, except to do what's in our favor. Our fourth main feature is that we will certainly, and certainly in Turkey, care about production in high-tech and high-income areas, and we will continue our walk on this road because we know that high technologies are, in fact, a great blessing for developing countries like us, especially developing countries like us. As a country that has used high technology very well in the past 15 years, we are closing the gap in technology with developed countries and moving on. In this framework, one of the main features of our governments' future economic march is, of course, to maintain the march in high-tech and added areas. The fifth point of our economic destination, our orientation, is to increase Turkey's ability to produce. In this framework, we will continue to make progress in the fields of innovation and innovation through years of OSBs, techno parks, universities. Again, this economy is one of the most important indicators of our political new march, and one of its steps is to take the sustainable green economy in the new economy and to the center of green economic transformation in this sense. My dear brothers and sisters, the valuable MPs, the second major milestone of Turkey's march towards Turkey, again strong, is the national defence industry, which leads industrial production to strong Turkey. In this sense, we all know that having strong defence industries for all countries is one of the major factors for monitoring national strategy and policies that are appropriate inside to avoid external addiction. Again, our defence industry, which generates unique solutions, invests in local national projects that capture the latest technologies -- probably all of us, whatever party we're from -- is one of Turkey's most important areas of pride in this area. Again, as a reminder, the nationality rate approaching 70 per cent of the national defence industry is a source of pride for all of us, and hopefully, in 2023, the rate will be between 75 per cent and 80 per cent. Dear brothers, we all know that the defense industry is also a force factor for economic development. The defence industry is not only its own, but the defence industry is at the head of our most important power factors, which also motivate many sectors of its own and move economic development forward. In this sense, I'd just like to say that the breakthroughs in the defence industry are also very beautiful reflections of other sectors, as well as of ASELSAN. We all know that technological achievements and investments in ASELSAN are the basis for the use of new technologies not only in the field of defence but also in the fields of medicine and energy. In this framework -- again, just to remind you -- our national drones, our SIHA, our TIHA, our general purpose helicopters, our new type of submarine projects, our drones, our drones, our improved missile engines, helicopter engines, and our multipurpose amphibian attack ships are key indicators in Turkey's defence industry, and hopefully, we'll continue our breakthroughs in this area, and today -- I won't say, not again, but we'll be able to make our steps in the world's gyp, especially in the direction of Turkey's great Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, another issue related to industry is Turkey's car, TOGG. Like the defense industry isn't just a defense industry, the TOGG isn't just an automotive industry. The achievements in TOGG are also a significant and extraordinarily powerful factor in the development of the side industry in the automobile industry and even in the development of batteries in the renewable energy context. My fellow lawmakers, one of the important aspects of our economic policy that we will not give up is to increase our renewable and clean energy resources and thus reduce our dependence on fossil resources. Unfortunately, in this direction -- I can't talk more about time -- in this direction again -- one of our most important issues is to increase our domestic, national power in the economy and to ensure that we can compete with the brands that we produce, products in global markets. My dear friends, another milestone in the direction of strong big Turkey is our social solidarity force. In particular, Covid has demonstrated the process once again that almost every country in the world has seen that social solidarity is far more important than measures to take. In this framework, as Turkey, we are obliged to avoid any words that would undermine social solidarity with its power and opposition. Yes, because Mr. Ilhan has just said so, there is no doubt that as a member of this country who believes in democracy, each of us has a word and a decision to make, and that is the nation itself. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) People have brought the AK PARTY government to power, Mr. President to power with his lawful votes, and the government continues its services by fulfilling its responsibility to the nation. Therefore, we have no doubt that the Ark will come before the people in its time and that the public will take responsibility for itself. But, once again, I'd like to say thank you for the friends who are talking today, who are responsible. Dear friends, the most important thing to lose in this society is the spirit of social solidarity. To keep this spirit alive, we must all show strong solidarity. We can criticize each other, say things to each other. From where you're looking at it, it looks different from where we're looking at it. In that sense, it's necessary for everyone to prevent solidarity, especially the words that mean mixing up the streets and hostility. Because we all have different parties, but all of us share a common denominator of Turkey, and all of us are from Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] During that time, strong solidarity arose in Turkey. First of all, I celebrate the women of Turkey, the teachers of Turkey, the health workers of Turkey, the veterans who sweat in Turkish filament teams and the people of Turkey's loyal groups who work hard to help the people; I celebrate them all because of this exemplary solidarity, and their efforts are unforgettable.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0031par0029	Make it worth my while.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0030par0030	In this framework, another group that Turkey will appreciate is Turkey's NGOs, which depend on national sensitivities. In the meantime, we know that there has been extraordinary work done in the pandemic process of NGOs, along with solid legal infrastructure and in this sense, especially its advanced institutions. We also know that there are groups of people who are trying to poison Turkey's civil society area in relation to some of our national sensitivities -- unfortunately, with some custody centers, with some of the foreign environments. We also transfer them to the mindset of the nation's common sense, nation's and spiritual values, and in that sense, we are proud of Turkey's civil society institution. My fellow lawmakers, another important aspect of the new strong walk in Turkey is our obligation to have a strong perspective on education. In this framework, we are well aware that our greatest strength in development and the strengthening of the welfare of the people is our human resource, and in our 19 years of power, we have obviously made every means necessary to enhance the quality of our human resources, the ability of our human resources, and the ability of the age. We know that education is really a nation's most important investment. In this sense, we see our young people as the future of Turkey and our young ones as the heart of the heart. Turkey's share of education during this power has increased by about 20 times as much -- it is spoken here every year in budgets. Likewise, the share in Turkey's education budget this year is extremely valuable, including the higher education budget. Because a well-equipped, well-equipped labor force is the engine of the development of a nation. For this reason, during 19 years of power, it is also extremely valuable to promote vocational institutes, strengthen vocational upper secondary schools, improve the number of students in vocational schools in line with the private sector, improve the quality of vocational education and especially the strengthening of technological infrastructure. In this sense, removing the coefficient of vocational schools is one of the greatest favours to Turkey, which has been given to the AK PARTY governments. (EC PARTY) Because even if you do vocational colleges, vocational high schools, mothers, fathers' children were saying that if you don't want to go to college, I will send my son there, but I will send my daughter there, but how will they go to college? With its coefficient lifted, with the lifting of obstacles to universities, there was a much greater demand at vocational universities, and we can easily say this. Let's not talk about February 28th, if we open the book on February 28th, I'll tell you what, but in those days of persecution on February 28th, really, one of the challenges Turkey faced was this business school issue. We can lift the new February 28th cover over education. For this reason, we are all aware that this important service done by the EC PARTY governments is a historic service, and what it means will be understood much better in five or six years. My dear brothers and sisters, it has also provided a remarkable opportunity for our nation's children to be guided to the areas that they want by a 4+4+4. I'm not going to say this for long, but one of the major milestones in our walk towards the great, powerful Turkey is education; it's the upbringing of qualified, powerful people who know the needs of the age; it's the upbringing of young people. Increased numbers of universities is a success, an important development. Now, in front of our universities, it is time and time for a quality-based reform to prepare a competitive environment in Turkey as well as a basis for competing with global universities. In this framework, the target placed within the Fifth Five Year Plan is, in fact, a driving force for the government. So among the top 500 universities in the world, at this rate, there will be three Turkish universities -- at least three -- in the coming period -- and they will be able to compete internationally. My fellow lawmakers, studies are being carried out to improve quality in education. I'd just like to point out to you that the 20th National Education Service, which was held earlier this month, and at the very last, I would like to say that our understanding of education is not just to raise knowledgeable people. If only knowledge were something, mankind would have to live in peace, happiness, prosperity, and solidarity during the most information produced in the history of mankind, but knowledge alone is not enough; it needs to be strengthened by two precious treasures that are placed next to the knowledge of Asia Minor, which is wisdom and wisdom. Our understanding of education is based on further strengthening our educational system with knowledge, wisdom and wisdom. My dear brothers, one of the last milestones of our strong march, our walk in the direction of strong, great Turkey -- at least in terms of my speech -- is the effective foreign policy requirement.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0032par0035	The end, the end.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0030par0036	Geography -- the eastern Mediterranean, Caucasus, Balkans, the Black Sea, Africa, the Middle East -- is a region where the most conflicts, power centers in the world fight the most; Turkey is in the middle of this region. We're not new here; we haven't had a comfortable day since Malazgirt, to protect this country, which is hard to live in, but with honor. (APPLAUSE) We know we're facing some difficulties these days, but we're moving on with much more force than this country has left us as a home, watching and taking precautions. In this conflict environment, in the central part of the world's turbulence, terrorist groups taking advantage of the lack of authority from one side, on the other hand, Turkey has never compromised and will not compromise policies created by imperial forces that want to fill these gaps as a state. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey is the hope of all the countries in this geography and the balance of this region. Turkey is a balancing force of the region. In doing so, in all areas of conflict, in all areas of conflict, in all areas of tension, Turkey is at the peace table, both in the effort to protect the rights of 84 million citizens and the law of the oppressed nations. My dear brothers, in this sense, the whole world now knows that no peace table can be established without Turkey, and no solution without Turkey is valid in this region. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers and sisters, in this sense, we are determined to maintain an effective foreign policy that looks out for common interests. We offer new sacrifices, new perspectives, to increase the number of friends, to increase our friendship with nations whose people we have been friends with, even though our past relationships have been stormy and difficult. I would also like to point out to you that we have prioritized diplomacy in all tensions to protect our national policies, and I can count dozens of them, and you can count them. Turkey... here we have prioritized diplomacy in all these tensions, especially the Armenia issue, the Syrian issue, the Cyprus issue, our tensions with Greece. Because we believe that solutions can be solved by mutual consent, can be solved by negotiation. However, for the protection of our national interests, we have never avoided any tension, we do not avoid it. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't have been able to search for oil in the Mediterranean, in the Black Sea, if it weren't for that, we wouldn't be able to open Ayasophia to the meeting, and we wouldn't be able to open the Marash region in Cyprus if we hadn't taken the risk of tensions.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0033par0045	The economy collapsed.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0030par0046	My dear brothers and sisters, wherever they stood against our national interests against the United States and the EU, we've explained our problems to them, and I'm telling you very clearly that we've never, ever been a docile and passive ally to the United States and to the EU. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Finally, I would like to share with you some of the major milestones of this road, as well as with our foreign policy. My dear brothers, there is a need for a new global architecture in both economics and politics in the world. The world system cannot carry this global economic system and the global political system, which is why Turkey is moving its words to the world platforms that it will lead all nations by truly working hard to establish a new order with its entire world nations. The world is greater than five. It is not just a wish, but a result of Turkey's attention, effort, and determination to build a new global system in this sense. In this framework, Turkey's march, which I'm trying to express its major landmarks, will not be interrupted by Allah's permission. We want it to be known that we've been listening to all kinds of hard-core criticism about this, but that we're going to fight effectively against every word that means tripping Turkey's foot. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I am determined not to answer any of the oratories who were quoted here because of their taunting, but I would like to stress one thing in terms of the thoughtfulness, the feeling that we carry, and the obligation given to us by the great, powerful Turkey ideal again: Dear friends, we sit on the continent of Anatolia, we sit at the center of the world, we sit on a great state consciousness and a great cultural heritage that has been bequeathed to us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0034par0054	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0030par0055	What is the direction of Turkey? The question is a stale question, where is Turkey located? The question is a question that has been spoken since Tanzimat and Legality, and unfortunately has been wrongly answered by some elites. The direction of Turkey is the West. It means not to understand this beloved nation, the direction of Turkey is East. It means not to understand this nation. The direction of Turkey is neither east nor west, the direction of Turkey is to rise above its roots and to establish a strong, great Turkey. There is no other way; there is no other way for someone who looks like someone else to gather other people's ideas. We are a son of this nation, and we know that no nation in history will rise above the body of another. Neither will this nation rise above the body of another, and this nation, by God's leave, has the will, the determination to build, the will, and the determination to rebuild, the great Turkey, over its roots again. May God guide us, and may God save this mighty nation.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0034par0058	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0035par0059	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0034par0060	Mr. Hamzacebi, let's finish the speeches for the group and then I'll consider it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0035par0061	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0034par0062	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second statement is from Deputy Leader of the Group and Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitas. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0036par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear congresswoman friends, with a presentation and opening speech at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, especially Mr. President, which has been working on the budget, I would like to begin by thanking our esteemed Vice President, our ministers, the President of the Plan and Budget Commission and our valued members, all of our deputies, the bureaucrats, the ones who have contributed patiently and steadfastly contributed to the negotiations for 12 days, the ones who are working in the budget process of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Today, on the 12th day of the budget, our dear fellow MPs presented their views on the budget on behalf of all political party groups, trying to express. We tried to write down what they thought was right, what they believed, and we tried to explain to each other what could be done. In the process, we've also made some unpleasant, hurtful remarks to each other, but we've put them all aside, assuming that they're in that atmosphere. Hopefully, I'll never see such an environment again until the budget marathon in 2023. It's easy to criticize, hard to do. Today, when we meet in world countries in the history of the republic, we experience one of the rare environments in which 19 years of continuous power is alone. In 2023, we will understand the 100th year of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. In 2023, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who established 21 per cent of the Republic of Turkey's successes in the position Turkey came from today, will express and remember the power of the EC PARTI in history and will be able to evaluate how we did it. Hopefully, I believe, I hope, that in June 2023, as it has been so far in the polls that will come before us, our nation will bring us to power with the Cumhur Alliance. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Criticism is one of the most important elements of democracy, but you don't have to reverse the numbers. We enjoyed watching Mr. Ilhan Kesici here; even though we disagreed with his ideas, we disagreed with his statements, he spoke out of kindness and kindness. Mr. Kesici is an Undersecretary of State Planning from 1991-93, but the co-ordinator of planning doesn't just express issues through numbers, the undersecretary, the people who sit in that office make it their policy to evaluate over the proportions because the number came from $10 to 100 lira to what was the percentage of what, and what is the 100 lira now? Someone else can talk, but the fact that someone who's been a planning secretary just said the numbers and didn't go over the odds may be right in their own way, but it leads to different outcomes in terms of sharing the truth with the public. Look, they've expressed internal debt, external debt, in terms of currency -- debts. In 2002, Mr. Kesici told us the number of our debts, but it didn't say what the rate of our national income was; it also said the figure in the budget of 2022, and it didn't say what it was. In 2002, the national income rate of our debt, which was 43 per cent, dropped to 10 per cent today. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, now, if you effectively rotate the money you're using, the debt you're taking, if you translate it, you can all benefit from it together; if you don't borrow it, if you burn it in your own oil, it's best, but the world is a little smaller now. I want to say that in a global world, we live in a world where everyone needs each other, not just in their internal dynamics, not in their own consumption, but in a world where, as we've learned in economics, we live in a world where everyone needs each other, not in the barley-cost equation, but in the way that others produce it, not in the way that they produce it. Look, Mr. Kesci has expressed some issues, tried to express some things, said them out of courtesy, and we've actually listened to them. Ziya Pasha gave an example, saying: "The lafla cheese boat does not work." He said right; for twenty-one years we have been doing, producing, doing all we can to increase the welfare of our nation, and those who have been in opposition for twenty-one years are constantly trying to run the cheese boat with words. But a man's ritual is a business. As they say, he has another expression among the people. Mr. Kesici said that while he was using the tail of Dana, he had a bit of a hesitation to see if it would be appropriate. I say that this ritual among the people is a work of speech. Instead of the expression: "The donkey dies, stays; the person dies, stays." Who is the party that has left a monument in the history of the Republic today? As Mr. Kesici criticised, he said: "That's what the fellows in your line said in their time. " Actually, he's been critical of two people, so I'll tell you one. One of his relatives, perhaps his father-in-law's grooms, criticized Mr. Demirel. What would Mr. Demirel say? He used to say, "The camper of the debtor." Look, dear friends, we don't call it that, we don't call it that. We say that if you use the debt you're owed effectively, the external resources you're getting, you'll have a higher level of well-being. The world is now very close to Istanbul in the period of the AK PARTI power, which brings the double roads from 26 airports to 56 airports, leading to over 28,000 kilometers [6,100 km]; making the fast trains; showing the ability to bring the sea trade to the best point by international transportation; increasing trade volume; improving the world's approach to Turkey; and bringing the world from 26 airports to 56 airports; and the world is now very close to Istanbul. Now you're saying to me that time is fast, time is the most valuable product, it's the most valuable value: why did you invest in substructure? If you didn't transfer this much money to infrastructure investments, my dear friends, if you made an investment, you would look at its next yield, its return, and you would analyze its economic sense of benefit. We believe we've done our best benefit-value analysis in 21 years of AK PARTI power, and our nation has seen it, and they believe it. Why? Since 3 November 2002, I don't know how many polls have arrived so far -- parliamentary elections, mayoral elections, constitutional amendments, referendums, various crates -- must have come in 13 or 14 crates. In every chest, we gave in to our compatriot. We have identified our citizen's trust in us as it is, and hopefully, we're trying to maintain their trust in the same way, starting from 2023. My fellow lawmakers, there is a very important crisis in the world right now. At the end of December 2019, the pandemic process, which began in China in the early months of 2020, led by Italy, shocked the world on 11 March 2020. Without knowing what was done, without knowing when, while arguing whether the vaccine would be found, whether the vaccine would be affected or not, Turkey was bound to be affected by the depression, the effects of the pandemic process, as the whole world closed down. Look, there's been a period of closure in both Turkey and the world for about a year. Then it was called health first. All countries have taken various economic measures to save the people living in their own country from this closure process. Starting in March 2020, those who ruled Turkey's economy within a year until 2021, when the pandemic process continued, did their best to ensure that our citizen, including our cabinet member, would suffer minimal loss of well-being, including our president. Today's incident is at the beginning of the greatest tribulations in the world. See, September 29th was shaken by European energy prices; November 14th, America's producer prices at the peak of 11 years; November 15th, at the historic level of inflation in developed economies; November 15th, with inflation records; the entire world's problem; December 7th, eurozone investors' confidence; December 7th, Germany's global economy fell; December 10th, at the height of 39 years in the United States, Germany's annual inflation at the top of 30 years; December 15th, England; the summit of ten years of inflation; Turkey has been struggling with the trouble of all the world; Turkey's in order to make its least possible harm to the nation; December 10th, in the United States. Surely there are economic consequences for this, and I thank our nation, despite all the negativity in the pandemic process, to our dear brothers and sisters, who support our government, our nation, and our citizens, by staying calm and calm in the affairs of the world. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our Vice President has just expressed a very important issue, they said: "Our country, which is not in any country in the world, is the country of Turkey, which is the country that is leading the pandemic process today, with its first purpose in order to live together and integrity within the traditions of the people who live in this geography. Look, dear friends, there's an epidemic of supply shortages and price hikes going on all over the world. Among the most important agendas of the global economy, the fight against inflation is that inflation in developed economies is a historical problem of supply in the world, so it fuels inflation. There's a lot of difficulty reaching the first substance, raw material, commodity in the world right now, and there's a big problem carrying the commodity you've reached. A member of parliament recently expressed himself here, either at budget meetings or at another speech. 1,500-2 in normal times. We've seen the thousands-dollar container rent go up to $18,000, and even after we rented the container, the high prices came out, and the container became untraceable. The largest consumer in the world, such as the United States, is the world's second largest producer, China, and as a result of its own political, economic conflicts, America says that the most consumed is that I don't send containers without filling them. The container comes to me, the largest importer comes, there's 10,000 containers coming, but I don't send them from here until I fill them. America, for example, has a thousand containers coming in, 500 containers going out, but 500 containers being left, there's a logistical shortage in the world. We'll get through this together, and I believe we'll get through it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0037par0085	Is it because there's no containers that's weakened the economy? Is that it, Mustafa Bey? Did you really tie it to the container? Well done.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0036par0086	Now, my dear MP, look, it's not the economy's weakening. Despite everything, Turkey's economy is setting historic records in exports. The historical records we made today in exports exceeded $220 billion in 12 months, November-November.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0038par0088	Mr. Elistash, why don't you come to this courtship crisis...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0036par0089	Despite all negativeities, Turkish businessmen, Turkish industrialists, ministers, and bureaucrats have achieved today's success in reaching the 220 billion-dollar export level by removing the barriers to our exports in order to eliminate the logistic problems of our country in the world economy. Hopefully -- I don't know what the monthly numbers are -- estimates that export numbers in 2021 will be over $220 billion, could be 223 billion, could be $225 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0039par0090	The dollar goes to $20, for $20.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0036par0091	Today, one of the most difficult states in the world is energy costs. As our Deputy President-General has just expressed, I would like to say that with green energy, we're out of Turkey's need for the import of energy in the outside world, and we're out of our natural resources, both our local and national resources, and our wind, and our sun, and our hydraulic resources, very quickly. Before that, only 30 percent of energy can be domestic and national, while today more than 70 per cent of our power is being created as domestic and national energy, and we are using it. Why can we do that? Today, if we can afford the cheapest electricity, if the country continues to shift this state treasure, finances, to avoid projecting it to our citizens, BOTAS is one of the most important signs of our nation's trust in the AK PARTI power by selling a product from abroad for a price of one in five on international markets. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Second of all, there are high logistical costs that I've just tried to make clear. One of the main reasons for the price hikes is that they can't reach raw materials, intermediaries. Since it was closed during the Pandemic period, it could not be mined, it could not be manufactured, it could not be made, it could not be made, it could not be moved between countries. One of the biggest problems in the pandemic period is the increased cost of logistics and the challenges of reaching logistics. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the section of the OECD report on Turkey, they've revised several times that the GDP growth would be 9 per cent in 2021, but based on the latest data, we're going to see a double-digit growth. At a time when the whole world grew negative in 2020, the Turkish economy was a positive growth of 1.8. And in 2021, hopefully, that will happen. In 2022, Turkey's economy will grow by 3.3, which is estimated to be 3.9 per 2023. The September interim report expected 3.1 growth for 2022, but the OECD revised the year 2022 to 3.3. They calculate the development in the Turkish economy with numbers, they calculate with various data, but unfortunately here, our valuable speakers, our oratores, are trying to ignore it. Turkey's economy's growth rate in the second quarter was 22 per cent, 7.4 per cent in the third quarter, and our net goods and service exports contributed to growth by 6.8 points in the third quarter. Thus, 92 per cent of the high-profile growth has been covered by net exports, so despite all the difficulties, despite logistical difficulties, the barriers to exports have been lifted in the framework of decisions taken by our government and have been one of the major contributors to our growth. When we look at November 2021, exports increased by 33.44 per cent; imports increased 26.73 per cent; foreign trade volume increased by 29.63 per cent; exports met 80.1%. This is how export imports are met when there are economies in rare times that Turkey has turned from closed systems. But I'd like to rephrase here that the AK PARTI government will not give up its free market economy, which has dominated the free market economy, which has believed in this side from the day it came to power, and will no longer break it. Look at it in free market economies (EC PARTI), and look at it, with the free market economy that we've changed since 1980, the rate of exports to meet imports was between 50 and 65 percent. He was in danger of devaluation the moment he fell below 55. When exports received the rate of imports nearing 60, 55, the Central Bank had a devaluation -- you know, it had a fixed currency system -- it faced the need. For him, my dear friends, the work we've done in our 19 years of power is truly admirable, and people know it. And in the next ark is a great balance for the people. (AK PARTY) As the scale of the 13 polls to this side of the 19 years had not gone wrong, if it was right, in the election in June 2023, the Cumhur Alliance's scales would again weigh heavy and carry power.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0040par0097	Its name is a kefe. The scales do not weigh heavily. It's your shroud that's too heavy for you to say, it's not a scale.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0041par0098	The scale would be standard.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0042par0099	Your scales are broken.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0040par0100	The scales are standard, the shroud is heavy.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0101	Thank you, Mr. Free, you helped me turn the pages. I needed ten seconds. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0040par0102	If you're going to drink water, let's help him.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0103	During the return of nearly 50 per cent of the world's trade volume, Turkey has been able to improve its export potential by making the best assessment of its position, as we call it the new road map in the ticcarette, which we call the important country in the region -- which is a three-hour flight distance in our environment. Recently, our trade with Libya in 2021 increased by 84 per cent; our exports to Switzerland increased by 87 per cent; our exports to the United Arab Emirates increased by 103 per cent; to Egypt by 74 per cent to Italy; to Italy by 40 per cent to Spain, to the Netherlands by 34 per cent. In short, one of the main objectives of the new economic model is to make growth and employment sustainable and increase investment and exports. So, this is the steps of what we call the new economic model, the beginning of the road map. Hopefully, we'll see about that in the coming hours. Dear MPs, I've just tried to express that one of the most important problems in the world is fighting inflation. If you remember, Turkey, politicians between 1970 and 80 have emerged to be anti-inflation, while politicians from 1980 to 2000 have always appeared to be fighting the inflation monster. It is the expression of the late Ozal, which he gave to the Turkish public, as well as the expression of the beast of inflation, and the expression of the middle. We fought the inflation monster during the AK PARTI rule today, but now -- because internal dynamics don't seem to be well managed -- in our nineteen-year-old power, no one understood inflation as a monster, but now, in the global sense, it's on the way to becoming an inflation monster all over the world, along with the strain of spinning wheels in the economy. But our steady and stable march, along with our budget structure, which has not failed in fiscal discipline, hopefully, will continue best to combat inflation. As of the third quarter of the year, I was just able to say that with the cost of logistics and energy, inflation has reached the peak of the last 30 years, especially in Europe, with a severe increase in the prices of basic food and industrial goods. We believe that with the positive development of our foreign trade, there will be a significant improvement in the current open. Remember, in 2020, when the entire world shuts down, a country that has the capacity to host 50 million guests, a country that has the capacity to host a stranger in Turkey, has only been able to host 16 million guests in 2021, over 30 million in 2022, and in 2022, hopefully, in the fight against the variant called. Dear lawmakers, we're not reinventing the world, we're going through a difficult process. While the future generation is reminiscing these days, they can refer to those living in an epidemic of a time. There's been a lot of outbreaks in history, the plague, it's like...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0044par0108	SARS.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0109	Okay, that's what we're saying when we're dealing with diseases like him, when we're talking about the past. And when our children after that ask us, "Who was under these plagues?" And when they ask, "Who is the best that comes out with the least loss?," they will give us their thanks and their prayers, with great enthusiasm, and with great pleasure, by reading what the Cumhur Alliance had done.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0045par0111	Half a million people died in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0046par0112	Don't read Gazel, listen!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0113	Dear lawmakers, we've shared with our members of parliament yesterday the statement that Mr. President expressed, that he shared with the public, that the minimum wage was $4,253.40. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, president of the EC PARTI, said before his statement: "We will explain such a thing, but we will remove the minimum wage tax and stamp tax." And at that moment, in Parliament, as Deputy Minister of the Group, we have stated to our Minister of Finance and other bureaucrats that we would do such a thing, that we would do a technical work. I hope we're done working on that technique today. Our friends prepared that technical study, they're going to give us the final point, and we're probably going to evaluate it as the AK PARTY Group, and we're going to make the offer with our MPs' signature. Look, our fellow lawmakers on the stand here say why isn't Mr. President coming here? (Dear MPs, read the Constitution you criticize for God's sake.) In Article 161 of the Constitution, which you criticize, it says: President makes the budget, Vice President or Minister of Turkey defends the Grand National Assembly. The Constitution did not allow the president to defend the budget in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the Constitution, it is impossible for our President to express here -- according to Article 161. Mr. President, for years they've expressed their views on this bench -- both at closing and opening -- about the budget, they've tried to explain them, but under the Constitution, it's the job of the Vice President or a high-ranking minister to defend this budget. As for the minimum fee of $4,253, just ten days ago, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said the Asgari fee must be at least 5,500 lira. Mr. Free Private -- I don't hate it, I'm telling Mr. Freeman his statement -- he said that the price of Asgari should be $5,450 according to this account.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0047par0116	According to the court account.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0117	In this account, according to the courting account, he told me. But when Mr. Kilicdaroglu spoke from his time here on the stand, he said he'd pay 600 lira for family support. Mr. Prime Minister was also here, Mr. Erdoğan, and he said, "Ya, you had municipalities -- then you had Izmir municipalities -- let me see your family support. But now you have Istanbul, Ankara Municipality, İzmir Municipality...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0048par0118	We'll give it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0119	...the price is $5,450... let's put Free Bey's word aside, it's the word of Kilicdaroğlu, can you make $5,550?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0048par0120	Yeah, we'll give it to you. Don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0121	Why didn't you?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0048par0123	We give, we give.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0124	But Mr. Kilicdaroglu... our fellow MPs were singing a rhyme on the stand... for the first three days, something's coming, something's coming...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0049par0125	It's coming, it's going, it's going.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0126	Yesterday, which had been in place for 11 years, we made $4,500. He said, after we announced the minimum wage. And Mr. Hamzacebi just said, it should be like this: minimum wage. Look, the minimum wage was 116 dollars in 2002, its highest peak reached the level of $380, found $400 instantly, between $330 and $350, but what Mr. Free Special was doing was Mr. Kilicdaroglu's calculations, we're going to do what we have to do when he says we're going to do what Mr. Kilicdaroglu is going to do, as if it's not going to be done. He gave me 250 lira extra.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0050par0127	How much is it now, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0128	Now, we belong to their Istanbul municipality, other Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0051par0130	Let's give him a minute, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0043par0131	Mr. President, will you give Mr. Kesici as much time as you can?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0052par0132	Ten minutes...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0051par0133	Slowly... let's see. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0135	We expect this when Mr. Kilicdaroglu has the opportunity.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0054par0136	We will, we will, don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0055par0137	Relax.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0138	We're waiting.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0054par0139	Don't worry, we'll give you more.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0140	Workers are looking forward to working in Istanbul, İzmir, other major municipalities.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0054par0141	There's more, there's more... there's always more...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0056par0142	Guys, don't interfere with the Hati.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0143	But I'll tell you something else: we also downloaded the minimum wage tax.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0057par0144	That was our suggestion.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0058par0145	That's what we said.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0146	Look, we've cut $447.30 off the minimum wage tax, and we've reduced it with the stamp tax.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0059par0147	Let him pay the electric bills, and the electric bills of Adana, and of Mersin.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0060par0148	We even paid the farmers' electric bill.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0149	Oh, pay the electric bills and pay the electricity bills of our citizens in Adana, Mersin.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0061par0150	Well, you're doing what we say, God bless you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0151	Look, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0062par0152	Pay the electricity bills for all Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0153	...our workers working for İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality in Istanbul will also benefit from our exception to the tax.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0063par0154	We thank you, too, for what we said...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0155	On the other hand, we'd like to take this burden to our industrialist, our businessman...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0063par0157	Thank you very much, do as we say.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0064par0158	Mr. Elitaş, we'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0159	...to avoid uploading, valuable lawmakers would have cost our employer $6,350 if under normal circumstances we hadn't downloaded the tax reduction, the income tax and the stamp photo. But now, in order to free our employer from this burden, we're making $5,897 a minimum wage cost to the employer. So from this fee, we've made such a balance so that employers don't get blocked, don't break the peace of work, don't interfere with their active work during a lack of supply in the world, don't cause it to increase price on costs. Finally, I want to make a point: Mr. Kesci has made a statement about 128 billion dollars. We also accept his statement, his statement on the stand, because...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0064par0162	Mr. Elitaş, we'll add one more minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0163	...Mr. Kesci, in the two-hour program, the AK PARTY friends cut, pasted, copied, expressed in my speech 15 seconds, 20 seconds, but we say that what Mr. Kesici said in two minutes or two minutes during his two-hour schedule is the same as what he said on the stand, but there's a difference, you're saying that the records of the entire state are still standing, as well as the records of the Central Bank. Those accounts show what goes where.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0065par0164	Where'd he go?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0165	But there's a big difference between what Mr. Kesici said and what Mr. Kilicaroglu said.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0066par0167	No money, no money.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0168	Mr. Kesici says everything is recorded, nothing is lost in accounting.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0066par0169	No money, explain to whom it was sold.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0053par0170	But Mr. Kilicdaroglu says you stole it, you beat it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0066par0173	There's that, there's that.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0067par0174	Just give me one more minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0066par0175	And you've got cheap ones.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0068par0176	Mr. Elitaş, let's finish, please. Fourth minute, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0178	You gave Mr. Kesici five minutes, that's the end.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0068par0179	Let's see, according to him...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0180	The kindness and grace between us... Look, our critical friends here... listened to the National Movement Party, listened to it on TV, listened to the speakers of the Republican People's Party, thank you to two spokesman, even though we disagreed with their ideas, but there was kindness, there was kindness, there was intimacy. Mr. Vice President, in the same courtesy frame, he's made statements that will only appeal to our feelings, that will excite us a little bit more, but won't offend you. And I'm trying to keep it in that frame because of the politeness of the speakers, the good sense of humor, but now that I'm looking at it, I'm thinking, what if, for God's sake, what would happen if we had this on December 6th? When your president-in-chief came up here, if he had his grace, his kindness, to speak in accordance with the metaphor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0070par0183	It's rude, but it's rude.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0184	No, I'm saying something.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0070par0185	That's rude.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0186	But I didn't do anything rude.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0070par0187	It's really rude.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0188	I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0070par0189	I mean, that's a big shame.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0071par0190	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0191	It's delicious... That's my last sentence.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0071par0193	Mr. Elitaş, one minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0194	I'd like to thank all political party groups who have done this kindness, critical of the budget in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, contributing, reviewing, and our fellow lawmakers. I wish our budget to be blessed, and I wish the same grace and kindness to continue in the future.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0072par0195	What you say about Article 161 is not true.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0069par0196	I salute your high council.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0073par0198	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0073par0200	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0201	Mr. President, in the final sentences of Mr. Numan Survivor's speech, I don't want to answer to anyone, but I want to answer one thing, I want to make an assessment. And in his response, he teased me in his assessment. My sentence was: ▪ The historical direction of Turkey has been the West. He answered me, "The historical direction of Turkey is neither west nor east."
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0075par0202	That's not teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0076par0203	What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0204	And in fact, what I wanted to say, what I meant, turned it into another form, used it against its purpose. Therefore, I'd like to speak according to Article 69, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0077par0205	I've received the report, Mr Hamzacebi, he never mentions you in the report.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0206	But look, here's Mr. Numan Survivor, he means me, I mean, I didn't just show up.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0077par0207	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0209	Mr. Survivi, I said that the historical direction of Turkey is west. Now, Erdogan puts the Chinese model in front of Turkey after all these years. I said, we don't accept it. I criticize it, and you say: "The direction of Turkey is neither west nor east." Mr. Ötürü, Mr. EC PARTY Group, when Mr. Erdogan received a negotiating schedule in Brussels on 17 December 2004, when negotiations with the European Union began in 2005, was Turkey not on track for full membership in the European Union, and are you refusing that? So I understand that the AK PARTY Group has no such thing as full membership in the European Union; I thank you for admitting it. The Republic is a modernisation project, a modernisation project. This modernisation takes its roots from the modernisation of the 19th century Ottoman Empire. II. Mahmoud, Abdulmecit, Abdulaziz, II. Abdulhamit; all of these are innovative sultans; they have taken the education institutions of the West; they have taken the technology of the West. I gave an example: Mehmet Akif, in his personality of Asim., he idealizes Turkish youth, sends Asim to Berlin to study science. Why do you object to taking Western science, science, technology, and why? Also, I would advise you to read the 1856 Treaty of Paris, signed between Russia and the Ottoman Empire, England and France, which won the Crimean War. The Ottoman Empire will become a member of the European state community, with territorial integrity and independence under the common guarantee of the European community of states. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0078par0215	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0216	So even the Ottoman Empire, in 1856, accepted that Turkey was a member of the European Community, but I understand you: Mr. Erdogan said at one time -- when he was Prime Minister, he said for a while, he said: "Our people have been forced in a direction for two centuries." In the year that Mahmoud came to power, to the kingdom, the act of restoration begins then. You're aiming for that time before this, you can't even tolerate innovative sultans. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0078par0219	What's left?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0079par0220	We'd be happy if the Deputy Speakers could do the same for you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0221	I've never asked for an extension in the budget talk, so I'd appreciate it if you'd give him an extension.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0080par0222	When he's an accountant, he knows how to be naive.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0081par0223	All right, the end.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0074par0224	I'm sorry, I didn't see the second, so I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's something missing from China, so let me complete it. Look, you want cheap labor; it's not a coincidence that this dollar comes out here, it's a desirable thing. May work in Turkey become cheaper... The minimum wage of $4,250 does not carry the work up, and the labour costs are still cheap in Turkey. You know what the problem is? We can't produce high-intensity technology; in this case, if we invested in education, technology, science, Turkey would not be discussing the minimum wage. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0082par0229	Mr. President, since my name has been crossed...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0083par0230	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0084par0232	Is there an OGS in Mr. Numan?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0083par0233	Sir?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0084par0234	Is there an OGS of Mr. Numan just passing through?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0083par0235	He said it, he said it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0085par0236	My dear friend Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, thank you very much. This is the first time I've been quoted as being bullied by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which has led to this.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0084par0237	Good luck with that.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0085par0238	I've never said it in terms of a person, but what they said in their speech opened up to a matter of compromise. I wish we had the time to discuss Turkey's modernization adventure for hours. What we mean is that as a copycat of no civilization, we can't rise as a copycat of any region, we can't go forward. That's all we're saying. In this sense, if anything is to be read, we must read together what Sheriff Mardin had said about Cemil Meric, Turkey's distorted modernization. Also, what the late Mehmet Akif Ersoy said: "The science of your people, the art of your trade, the speed of your work and the speed of your work." Wherever there is wisdom, We shall take it. But if you'll excuse me, I'll finish what I mean in the words of the prophet Philip. At the same time, we began the modernization process, and the Japanese began the modernization process. The Japanese went through the Meiji Restoration, took what was in the West. The prince says that we have sent so many men to the West, but we have no engineers, no planes to build factories, no engineers to build railroads. That's what we say. Turkey moves on its own feet, not on its own civilizations, but on its own, not on its own, not on its own, not on its own, but on its own national path, taking what is on its own, absorbing it. That's what I meant, or I'd never say anything to your honor.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit03spe0086par0241	Thank you. Guys, I'm taking a 30-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0086par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 39th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the PTA Party Group, the first word belongs to Deputy Group Chairman and Samsun MP Erhan Ustah. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0013	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the Good Party Group for the entire budget of 2022. I salute our fellow citizens who follow us at the head of the General Assembly and its elders. First of all, I'm a guy who's been following the budget for about 30 years -- as a bureaucrat and as a politician -- and I'd like to say that it's the most unpleasant economic climate we've ever had. We had the 1994 crisis, we had the 2001 crisis, we had the 2008 and 2009 crisis, and now we're having the 2021 crisis. Rest assured, the economy of Turkey has never been so cramped. Now, first, of course, at the Plan and Budget Commission for 38 days, we talked about the budget at the General Assembly for 12 days, and a lot of things were said, and we went into the details of a lot of things, and we detailed matters, both personally and our fellow lawmakers. I'd like to talk a little more general today, but first I have to say, there's a serious problem of style in the ruling circles. I mean, look, the dollar is over $16 dry, that's $17. So the ruling party of lawmakers or officials -- don't come here -- those who make statements out here -- should actually speak in a slightly embarrassing way, but you see that there's no embarrassment at all, and there's still the top curtain, and it's always being spoken in incriminating, polarizing language, and the arrogance has become the greatest of them, and I think it's probably the biggest of them. Now, dear friends, we hope, and it looks like the Justice and Development Party will be the last budget of the government and the Cumhur Alliance as well as the last four budgets. So it's good to do a damage assessment, and I think it's useful to analyze how Turkey came to be in today's environment. Now, what is the state of the country, what is the view of Turkey; let's look at it from a macro angle first. Trust is completely destroyed, so there's no trust in the economy, trust is below zero. There's a serious escape from Turkish lira, and this escape is accelerating every time. Look, my dear friends, there are three functions of one Indian coin; we all know that, economics readers know that. What is it? One of them is an exchange vehicle. Can you tell me today that Turkish lira is a means of exchange? The sale of Turkish lira is almost up. What's the other thing? It's a savings tool. Is there any chance of saving on Turkish lira today? Is it saved on Turkish lira? Look, 63 percent of all deposits are in foreign currency; the exchanges, the gold under the pillows, these, I'm not saying that. So Turkish lira, unfortunately, has lost its ability to be a means of saving. The third function of a coin is the value detection tool. Are you able to determine the value of Turkish lira today? Look, prices are always being talked about over dollars, exchanges are being talked about. Therefore, Mr. President, our money is set, Turkish lira. Although he said so, there is no Turkish lira in the market today. Turkish lira is unfortunately in the market today, the minority has become money, dear friends. So if our money is dollars, if our money is Turkish lira, then we have to ask the President -- we can ask a lot of questions -- why are you giving these guaranteed projects to the contractors in dollars? Yeah, well, if it's Turkish lira, why don't we give it over Turkish lira? Now, the price stability has completely disappeared, the high inflation has returned to our lives. Turkey is from 1970, from 1980, from 1990. The Central Bank has stopped fighting inflation. The fight against inflation was left to the police, left to the inspectors, and finally left to Turkey's Statistical Agency. Turkey is experiencing an unprecedented courtship shock, my friends. We're experiencing an unprecedented courtship shock in the history of the Republic of Turkey. Look, I'm not going to go into too much detail because I'm on a tight schedule. I'll tell you about the 1994 crisis: the increase in the crisis in the nominal course of the crisis is 76 per cent, and at the end of the year, the nominal increase in 165 per cent. But when we think about 125 per cent of inflation that year, real currency growth, I'm just saying this by clearing Turkish lira without the difference in American inflation, 17.5 per cent. So the 1994 crisis is 17.5 percent of the real currency increase in the 94 crisis still in our memory. During the 2001 crisis, the fallout during the crisis was 39 per cent, and at the end of the year, there was a 113 per cent nominal increase. The real increase here is 26 percent. Now, in this crisis, we're going to call it the 2021 crisis, the lowest dry 6.88 this year, the highest dry is 17.14, the number-one rate increase is 149 percent, my friends. That's why I'm saying it's the highest courtship shock in the history of the Republic of Turkey. The real increase is even more severe, the real courtship increase, which is 17.5% in the 1994 crisis, is 26 per cent in the 2001 crisis, and that's 106 per cent in this crisis, dear friends; we need to see this absolutely. So high interest, don't look at policy interest being reduced all over the economy, as you lower policy interest rates in the economy, they increase as you reduce policy interest. Debt interest has reached 23 per cent, and in the coming months, we will live together to increase debt interest by 30 per cent. There's an economy stuck between interest and courtship. There's a public finances that tends to enter into a vicious cycle of budget deficits, debt and interest. Since we've discussed these details before, I'm just passing them on as headlines. Foreign debt is increasing exponentially, the foreign debt collected during the history of the republic, which is $3.2 trillion a year, has now increased to 7.6 trillion, which is four times the annual tax revenue, my friends. Worse, look, worse, financial stability is at stake, and worse, Turkey is heading towards a quick-payment balance crisis. So there is a Turkish economy that is the most fragile of the fragile. What is the situation in terms of the firms? If we look at them, they're under pressure and suspicion, our companies can't see the future, they can't give the price, their capital is melting every day, they're afraid of being terrorists, they're afraid of being terrorists today, they're constantly hurting because of their foreign currency positions, their businesses are closing, their jobs are changing hands, Turkey's assets have become a bargain, and our firms are struggling to translate their debts. When we look at it, our citizen is unhappy and anxious. There's a deep poverty, and since we've talked about it before, I won't go into the details. Women, too, especially children's poverty, young poverty. Our pensioners are already miserable, and so are the low-income. Our citizen is overwhelmed by the cost of life, people are struggling to make ends meet, and the power to buy is constantly dropping. Turkey faces a nutritional problem, dear friends. The individual's debt has increased dramatically, while today consumer loans have reached 950 billion euros, although in 2002 he received it at $2.2 billion, and he owes 450 times as much. Insufficient debt breeds income. Employees, pensioners, shopkeepers, farmers, everybody owes money. Our young people are looking for a way to cover abroad. Guys, I'm worried about what I'm gonna eat and how I'm gonna eat tomorrow. Turkey lives in the 70s. The sale of half a bagel is the first time in Turkey, which has been given to you. [[A round of applause from the Good Party and CHP]] Wide-defined unemployment is 22.8 per cent. The employment rate was 47.7 per cent when it switched to the party presidency, and it is now down to 46.2 per cent. Dear friends, today's destination is the 46.2-period rate of employment in June 2015. In terms of employment, Turkey lost six years and three months. In the last eight years, about 7.4 million of our citizens, our young ones, have reached the age of work, but only 4.1 million of them have been given work. What does the government do when it needs to ease its citizens financially? He's giving advice. They say, "Short down the ports." They say, "Take the tomatoes one by one." They say, "Turn down the bomb." They say, "If you pass dry bread through your throat, you're not hungry." They say, "God will test you with hunger." They advise you, "God will test you with hunger." TRT makes documentaries of healthy food from garbage, and the New Akit newspaper gives recipes for food made out of stale bread." The victim of bad management has been citizens of the Republic of Turkey, whose ineptness has been billed, dear friends. [[A round of applause from the Good Party and CHP]] I think we can define this economic trend in three phases. The first was the economic crisis, which is still going on, but it's a serious poverty and poverty after the economic crisis, the second phase, and the third stage is the total collapse of the Turkish economy, dear friends. So, why did Turkey come to this point, I think it's a good idea to look into it. First: Turkey quickly withdraws from being a state of law. The judicial system has been constantly tampered with, a period of judgment has been handed over to the judges, and the judiciary is in a place of trust. He has been removed from the fair trial; judges, prosecutors have been waiting for the direction of the administration in critical decisions. Property security is no longer secure, collapse has become a state language. The deed has been breached in this country, there is no contract law left. Restriction of freedoms has become a normal phenomenon. Turkey, which should aim for advanced democracy, has lowered the level of democracy even under the third world countries. Antidemocratic practices are becoming common. You could be declared a terrorist or a traitor at any moment. If you're a bit liberal, if you're a spy, if you're a little leftist, if you have a religious look, if you're a religious person, there's a great risk of becoming a PKK member if you're from the east, southeast. The second element... why has Turkey become like this? The second is bad management. Dear friends, Turkey is not governed, it's almost thrown away. The first break was in 2007, there was overconfidence, power poisoning in power. The second break was after the party was switched to the presidential system. The ongoing mismanagement system is systemized with this system, the party presidency system. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is offline. Unlicensed, incompetent staff at work. Nepotism, co-friendly nepotism, has become ordinary. Ignorance and dry stubbornness have become the basic principle of government administration. In the government's business, friends, Turkey is not your test board. In my opinion, the cause of interest, the result of inflation. You can't lead the country into disaster. We see very clearly that the consultation is missing, that there is no consultation with public institutions, that there is no coordination, that there is no coordination with other partners. Transparency has been put on the shelf, everything, accounts are hidden, accountability is gone again, a view that thinks democracy is just a crate. I'm afraid there's an executive staff that talks all the time, makes conflicting statements, dominates polarizing language. Planning has been put on hold, Turkey's decisions are made day-to-day, even hour-to-hour. The other third element is -- why is Turkey like this? - It's corruption. One of the biggest corruptions in the history of Turkey is the loss of 128 billion dollars, the loss of 128 billion dollars. He will surely be questioned about it. The second corruption channel is a public-private cooperation project, which has become a major robbery site. Even our grandchildren can't pay these debts, and it's absolutely imperative that they sit down again. If you do not sit down, the nation's alliance will be back in power with public-private cooperation projects. The Public Contraction Act has been torn to shreds, and all public contracts have been received by certain companies. The tax paradise list is still unpublished, and it is customary to raise money from Turkey to tax paradise. Of course, there's no way that the money that's coming out is legal. I've told you here about the corruption of electrical distribution companies. That's one of the latest corruption right now, so let's just say that the consumption price, which is $7 billion, is reflected in the bills, and the citizen is paying for it. In 2021, the EPDK was raised to $30 billion in various decisions made by the EPDK, and the citizen pays the full amount. The final act is a matter of extension of ports that are currently in session with the Commission. It's impossible to understand, there's a long time before the deadline, and it's being given to existing businesses. How can you do that? Why are these tenders given to existing companies without open competition, which is impossible to understand, which is a new heist site. Black holes have been another area of the robbery, and most importantly, the Entity Fund. The asset fund has created an arbitrary and unsupervised area, where public resources are being spent. There's no budget sense left. We don't even need to talk about a concept called the budgetary rights of the government anymore. Five salaries are not just to give money to those counselors; a circle is set up there, a circle. He wears the other hat that demands it with a hat, and the same person becomes the one who approves it, making it a mechanism for corruption. Internal control, external control, inspection boards have been completely neutralized. Thus, this increased corruption is Turkey's third main reason for Turkey's economic situation today. And fourthly, there's a question of prioritization in public spending, dear friends. There will be no saving of dignity. It has been made legalizing understanding, waste, luxury, and sovereignty; serious resources have been transferred in the construction of public buildings, in the building of public buildings. If Mr. Nebati is here, check the Ministry of Finance's floor, the Deputy Minister's floor, see how many square feet are being made. It's made with people's money, so there's a lot of serious waste around here. There is also extremism in public service purchases, and show-off projects have been one of the main waste areas. Trying to finish before the term of things also increases costs. Because you're going to finish the job before then. When you say, "You can't say anything to that contractor." I know those tunnels in our Samsun, they were tried to be raised for a certain time; the tunnels were opened, the viaduct collapsed the next day, and the tunnels were closed for a year. So, friends, these are also important elements of the waste of public spending. Social benefits are inadequate and are distributed in partisans, especially when it does not cover the last poor. Mistakes in the fight against pandemic also increased poverty in Turkey. Why did Turkey's economy become like this? The fifth element, when we say it, is a tax system that crushes citizens but rewards numbers, friends. Today, the system integrity of the Turkish tax system is completely lost. The most complex tax system in the world has passed into literature. There are a lot of taxes, the need to simplify exceptions and exemptions. Consumption taxes are extremely high, and it crushes the citizens because these taxes are unfair. It's now a necessity to bring in the statement system, but the government doesn't even think about them. The tariffs of construction arrangements should be taxed, but since this is becoming a major corruption channel, they're not interested in taxing it at all. The lack of resources in productive areas, being buried in concrete, has prevented our production capacity, and external debt has reached a level that cannot be paid. Continuous tax pardons, configuration laws are another problem; unfortunately, tax compliance is no longer voluntary fitness. Tax audits are inadequate, not deterrent, not objective; if you're on the government side, you don't get audited at all, but if you have a little opposition, you can't lift your head. The tax administration needs a restructuring of the central and rural organisation, which should strengthen its analysis capacity in the tax administration. The sixth element is the inconsistency and instability of economic policies. Once again, I asked this many times, we still haven't been able to answer that question. The growth of efficiency has been neglected. Stable and unstable growth dominates Turkey today. Since 2013, the share of the taxpayers has been reduced to the lowest, so a significant percentage of society is unable to benefit from this growth. Agriculture is shrinking. The increase in employment is insufficient. Mr. President has already summarized these, and there's no need to say any more, we've had no success in the ten-year-old policies. He has confessed. There's no courtship policy. So when we spent $128 billion together, we put dry pressure on it, and then when we couldn't keep it dry, we said, "The fast is left empty, this time the lottery is interrupted; 6 billion has been wasted in 5 interventions, and there's no way to understand how that makes sense. So there's a power that doesn't know what it's doing. It's a new model of the economy, it's called a new model of the economy, it's called the Chinese model, and then there's no Chinese model, Mr. Group Vice President, there's no model of China, there's a Turkish model. We dropped the policy interest, is the interest falling? No, interest doesn't go down; commercial interest goes up, the government borrows from higher interest. We'll make an investment. You say. No one objects to investment, production, employment, but is there any investment? The key to investing is trust. Is there any confidence in Turkey's economy today? No. Thus, the model, which you call the new model, is basically broken down. You can't reduce interest, nor can you create a climate for investment, and mistakes in internal debt increase the burden of the budget. Agriculture is completely out of the question. Imported farming has been made a model in Turkey. For 20 years, inadequate support policies are false support policies. If we look at direct support for agriculture today in terms of the budget share, it is less than half of the support given in 2006. There is an excessive increase in input costs; people can't throw fertilizer, farmers can't throw fertilizer, Turkey will inevitably meet with serious loss of efficiency next year. The number of unplanted land has reached 42 million cayennes. Production has increased by up to 10 times the number of nominals, in 20 years, or in 19 years, the farmer's production has increased by 66 times. The tractors are foreclosure, the land is foreclosed. The lower capacity of public institutions is another problem area. One of the main reasons why Turkey's economy has become what it is today is because the public institutions' capacity has dropped. In one year 2011, the first coup was struck, and the ministries were turned upside down by law enforcement decrees. Many institutions have been removed; institutions such as the State Planning Agency, the Treasury Undersecretary Finance Board, the Calculatorial Board have been removed. There is not one institution that has seen the entire picture of Turkey today. The Central Bank, TİK, independent authorities have been discredited, made to act on political instructions. He is incapable of creating politics in institutions. Specialties have been emptied. The interview system has become the only selection criteria for hiring the government. The state of Turkey was seen as the focus of custody and mixed stationery and red tape, and the state of Turkey was brought to ruin, calling it the bureaucratic oligarchy. The removal of the undersecretaries is another problem, instead of bringing in party commissioners, and that's how institutional memory was destroyed. Foreign policy, which fails as Article 9 and is dependent on the outside. We've already been thrown around in foreign policy, we've all had an adventure from zero problem policy to precious loneliness. Our dependency in the economy also prevents us from being independent in foreign policy.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0088par0048	Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll see if you can boycott the Chinese Olympics. No one can talk about independent foreign policy at Putin's door after 33 martyrs. Trump's letter is still in our memory. As long as this skin is in this body, no one will be able to receive a priest. It is said that the priest is gone. The Shah shrine of Solomon has been moved. The Russians have landed in warm seas, with a hundred years of work. Today, there is no perspective of the European Union, Turkey is being flooded with uncontrollable refugees, so trust in its friends has become a country that has no fear for its enemies. As a result, the point where Erdogan and his team bring the country is a national security issue, dear friends, the real beka problem is today's situation. (Applause from the parties) Erdogan's statement of survival is now clear that the EC PARTY governments have caused the invasion of Turkey's economy. Those who cause occupation can never be saviors. Erdogan and the EC PARTY no longer have anything left to give this country, this road is a dead end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0089par0054	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0055	What else does it take for you to understand that? There is a Finance Minister gambling on Turkey. What did the Minister say? We'll all go down together, or we'll all go out together. No one can gamble on Turkey, no one must play on it, dear friends. It has to be returned this way before it gets any bigger. The outside forces -- if there are outside forces in this country -- are the ones who impose these policies on you, who whisper these policies into your ears, are external forces. (APPLAUSE) It seems that the outside forces are right next to you, so it seems that the siege is surrounded by the fifth hill, and only the election will break. Dear friends, I'd like to make a few evaluations of the speech of Mr. AK PARTI oratories. I believe Mr. Numan Survivor misunderstood the free market. On the one hand, we're going to keep saying "free market," but we're going to keep interfering with the market with police measures, which is impossible to understand. The state system is called high technology.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0089par0058	Let's finish your speech, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0059	I'll finish, sir. I'll finish in a minute or two. The share of high-tech products in exports was 6.2. In 2002, dear friends, the level they came to today is 3.4. That's not going to happen, it's not going to happen by selling dreams, friends; you're going to look at data here. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Now, Mr. Elitaş said something nice, he said: "Rakam, look at the odds." Now, a woman said in the village: "Woe to me, half the flock has arrived, half the herd has not come." They asked him how many came, how many were there, how many were there?" There were two; one came, one didn't come. Now, Mr. Ilhan Kesici was the Undersecretary of the DPT, and I did the DPT Assistant for years; sometimes it's right to look at the number, and sometimes it's right to look at the number, Mr. Elitaş. Now, energy prices... look, let's get this straight: it's no use to this country. He keeps saying: "Inflation is a problem all over the world." Friends, the figures of the IMF are there, the world average is 2.7 in 2020; 4.8 in 2021. The increase is only 2.1 points. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0090par0065	Mr. Master, I'm giving you the most time in proportion.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0066	True, but five minutes, sir, I want it in minutes. In developing countries, it's 4.4, look, let's pay attention here -- it goes up to 5.8 in 2021, friends; it only increases by 1.4 points. Now, looking from here, there's inflation all over the world. I don't think it's right to say, "There's inflation all over the world." I don't think it's right to cover inflation that's probably going to find 30 percent at the end of our year. Every day, the rise of the engine is due to our inner distress, which has nothing to do with the outside. I'm gonna say one more thing and I'm gonna finish it. Now, Mr. Elitaş says that the previous inflations were Turkey's internal problems, which are now global. Look, I'll tell you this: I've just told you, the rise in developing countries is 1.4 points, and we've increased by more than 15 points. Look, in the developing countries of high inflation, do you think inflation is only in Turkey at 74.6 friends, while we have 70.9? 74.6; we have 70.9; below them... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up. Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0091par0072	It's over, four...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0073	Let me salute you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0091par0074	Please, let's finish, let's give it one last minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0092par0075	The planner isn't planning the time, Mr. President, it's time he can't.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0076	I planned the time accordingly, so I could take five more minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0092par0077	The planner should be able to plan the time.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0087par0078	Now, so, look, I mean, let's analyze the inflation of the past. Inflation in the past was global, or rather, because of problems in developing countries like ours, which, in our high inflation period, we had an average inflation of four to five points below them. Therefore, despite all our objections, although we do not believe that this budget will solve any of Turkey's problems, I do wish that our budget would be good for our government, for our nation, but not for this road, not for Turkey's greater disaster, and bring the crate before this nation, the nation will make the right decision. My compliments to the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0093par0081	The second word on behalf of the PTA Party Group belongs to the Group's President and Mr. İsmail Tastüoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu, your time is forty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0084	Mr. President, members of our Veteran Assembly, I salute you all on behalf of the Good Party. Very dear friends, the final speech is difficult; the audience is tired, the audience is tired, but an easy part is that they get a little attention because they're the last speaker, so they have an advantage. Now, in ancient times, these village stories are famous; the man tells the story of the victim, the victim, took the daughter of Moses, and went to sacrifice her with the axe. The angel of death brought a calf. When he says, "Ya, uncle, what part of this shall I correct?" Not Moses, Abraham. He's not his daughter, he's his son. It's not an axe, it's a knife. Not the reaper, Gabriel. The man said: "Ya, I said the victim." [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Now, dear friends, therefore, we need to make a few corrections -- first of all, to the AK PARTI speakers, from the very beginning, but since the opening of the House and especially when it's not a political person, even though it is Mr Fuat Oktay. Now, the words are this: the 19th AK PARTY budget. The 20th AK PARTY budget, the AK PARTY governments. Now, dear friends, Recep Erdogan is the candidate for President of the Cumhur Alliance in the 2018 elections. Therefore, today there is a will. This will is the Cumhur Alliance. When they make these decisions, they don't even count this place when the National Party of Action doesn't raise its hand. But here's the thing: this -- the look of the nationalist movement party, of course, it's their own business, but -- it's reading the national will wrong, and the politest thing is, it's trying to get what it doesn't deserve. So why would the AK PARTY do such a national will reading? He won an election with around 52 percent, and two parties, at least two parties, with other parties, so we need to make this correction. Look, all of Mr. Oktay's speeches, he doesn't exist. Today, I've looked at Mr. Elitaş again, and Mr. Numan has survived the whole... I understand this new system, we can't get it to sit down, and hopefully we'll be able to liquidate it, at least, until we can get rid of it, we'll have to read and accept the national will. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear friends, second, please, don't scare people. Look, yes, today the political administration in Turkey is running behind the events; it's true. He has no control, no power, no enthusiasm, and even no determination, but the speech of Maduro, such as freedom, freedom, lifting bans, a political movement that comes with words of wealth, morality, freedom of opinion, and the economic salvation of leadership, saddens us all to hear him speak in the language of Maduro, such as enemies outside. It upsets all of us, and it's unfortunate, that we can't make the fate of our nation. Now, look, Turkey is the 12th President today... the 13th President of Turkey better manages. Today, the 77th Minister of Interior in Turkey... 78th Minister of Interior will do better, surely better to fight terrorism. (Applause from the Party's ranks) The 45th Foreign Minister... also represents Turkey with honor and honor. Why do we scare and frighten people with Maduro? That's not how politics works, so we need to make an important adjustment here. The third correction, my dear friends, is especially not here to fight with the truth. There's nothing to be gained by fighting the truth and competing with the past. We are now hearing: Sir, since this 2013 there is a model, Turkey is leaving. The numbers, the official numbers, they don't say that. Mr. Elitaş said something: $220 billion in exports.... that's right. If we did foreign policy in the region according to the country's historical code, it would be 250 billion, but it's also a process of pandemics. Let's try to make it permanent, it's true. But look, the year 2000, there's $30 trillion in revenues in the world, 30 trillion in revenues in Turkey, $4,300 in revenues. The year 2012, the national income in Turkey was $12,500. 2022, 30 trillion, 90 trillion, $4,300, $8,600, sir? Yeah. In 2012, there was a $950 billion Turkey, 75 million Turkey, and we produced $950 billion. Well, in 2018, when you take over the party presidency, there's an $881 billion Turkey, we end 2018 at $790 billion; there's no pandemic. We're going down a little bit, we're ending 2019 with $761 billion, and there's no pandemic.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0095par0095	Nothing happened in Turkey?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0096	We're running out of 2020. We're running out of $717 billion. We end up with 760 billion dollars... with a 10-percent and a 12-percenter -- with an increase of 760 billion -- at the end of the year 2012. When I wrote this, when I was doing the study, it was $5,000, 60 grand, now 85 to 90 thousand liras. Your official figures tell us that for seven years we've been an economy, a country, that's been downdrawn in real terms. Does anyone say anything to the 2007 of Turkey? You have to see why this is happening. Now, look, sir, this is the world from 2018. No, that's not the way the world is. From 2018, every citizen of the United States has been put in their pockets -- 2018-2021 -- 6,000 dollars; it's going to be a lot more, it's going to be 2020.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0096par0098	He made money for nothing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0099	You knew so much, you knew right away.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0096par0101	I know all about it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0097par0102	You press it, too.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0103	I'll tell you how America makes money now. I'll tell you in a minute. So, what did Romania put in, Romania made money too? Romania put $2,000 in it. Poland? He's got $2,000 in it. Romania's got $2,000 in it. Do any of you know Romania's money, have you made any money? Poland?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0098par0105	Poland...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0106	Poland put $2,000 on its citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0098par0107	Our thirty-forty years ago.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0108	China has put $1,300 in its citizen's pocket since 2018. Turkey's down a thousand dollars. This figure... of course we were converting it into Turkish lira, but here -- Monday, Tuesday -- because there are different numbers every day, we can't dial it anymore, so it's changing even from there to here. (PEOPLE Applause) Now, it's 14/ monday, 15 on Tuesday, 16 on Wednesday, 17 lira today... that's how it goes. Now, dear friends, look, the world isn't like that; the world is the way we built it, and we're competing with the past, and we call it 2000 years. The world doesn't wait for us in 2000, the world says to Turkey in 2022, where are you? The rich, the poor, the poor, the manufacturers don't wait for us in 2000. Look, when we came to 2000, we were talking in Turkey at that time. Ya, China passed us, South Korea passed us. Yes, it was true. In the 1980s, we couldn't wake them up. You know those countries that were behind us in 2000? For example, Malaysia is $4,000, such as Romania, Eastern Europe, $1,600, Uruguay, for example, Chile, China, $900. Guys, this is all over us. Look, in 2000, Bulgaria was $1,621, do you know how much it costs today? $10,500. In 2000, every rise from Bulgaria would rise for Turkish passports and IDs, and now the title records of the 1800s are being sought, so that Bulgaria may also be granted citizenship and be a dual citizen. This is the impact and contribution of the poorness of the last decade, especially the party presidency. Now, dear friends, number four, don't interfere with the exchange. Look, you're lowering interest, you're interfering with currency, it's $6 billion. Don't interfere in the exchange, clear the way for Turkey. Mr. Kesici said something very nice: let's go to the nation immediately, let the people choose you, let a new faith be restored, and let a new faith be set in motion. Turkey doesn't carry it, it doesn't carry it. We haven't seen a party spokesman today speaking today, unfortunately from today, speaking today. Look, I haven't seen a party spokesman talking about today. Today's political responsibilities did not speak today on the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because we have never heard of today's topics. There's a story: British Muslim, Pakistanis Muslim. They taught me how to sacrifice, they didn't cut it, they had blood on their hands. What do you want me to do? Yeah, there's Pakistanis, Afghans, they said. He went there, and said: "Is there a Muslim among you?" When he saw him like that, everyone looked at each other. Today the AK PARTY has always looked at each other, no comment on today's issues, no language. About tomorrow, about tomorrow, let the opposition speak, let tomorrow -- let their own projections, their own world -- talk about what kind of projection, what kind of service, what kind of economy, what kind of politics they're predicting, what kind of politics they're planning. Look, dear fellow lawmakers, this is the 4th budget of the Cumhur Alliance, and we're doing our 4th budget as the Good Party. We're really working to create a common mind, all our efforts are, in the Plan and Budget Commission and in the General Assembly, all our efforts. We're not black and white, we're not sworn in on anything. We've looked, we've come up with common sense with our friends, and we've submitted it to Mr. President's information, and that's what we've decided. That's how we decided on the latest defence industry, with Mr. Dervisoglu's proposal and Mr. Dursun Atash Bey's suggestions. We've done this so that we can all be with our security forces, our soldiers, together, rather than the budgets of the National Defense Department, the Police Department, the Coast Guard, the gendarmes, the National Intelligence budgets. But we've never seen anything like it. In all our conversations, there's almost a wall on the AK PARTY side. In this latest Plan and Budget Commission alone, Mr. Erhan Usta and Durmis Yilmaz have 19 motions. The problems of the country, the problems of our people, the problems of the pensioner, the problems of the teacher, the problems of the police, the problems of the YIT (YIT) people) for once, what do you say, friend? How does it come from where you see it? Let's take a look at these. There is no will, there is no will. Let me make this very clear: I also served in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we discussed the budget of 2018/2019 here, and I said: "Friends, the AK PARTI and the Cumhur Alliance falls behind the AK PARTI in 2007; if so, look how Turkey is going back. There is no one listening to what I just said. In the budget of 2020, I said, "Look, you're dropping it behind 2002." The Republican People's Party spokesman said that, but I personally put this matter before you with serious analysis. No, and last year, I said, "Look, you went to the back of 2002, you're going to go very badly, you're going to hit it, and it's going to cost Turkey a lot of money. There's no and we hit it again; it's a structural blockage that has never been seen in the history of the Republic. Look, don't confuse this with April 5th and February 21st, they're an economic failure, it's a structural blockage. We'll all see, from the end of this, hopefully, with the power of the National Alliance, we'll come out at the lowest cost as soon as possible. (APPLAUSE) And we hit it. What happened? The driver gets down, blames the wall, and the driver says, "Who drew this wall?" The deputy blames the car, and they have model suggestions. We're also looking at the model, dear friends, eggs-free omelet. Okay? It's happening, eggs-free omelets; it's a model! Dear friends, today we're discussing the budget. I suppose from now on, Mr. Nurettin Nebati will own the budget? Today there is no market, no price; only those who rule Turkey, the palace and the administration floor, and they have no movement. Now, therefore, this budget -- the dollar said a lot, friends -- but the truth is, Mr. Nebati, when the 6 September Central Future Plan was declared, it would take $211 billion, 1.750 trillion, a globally integrated country, and 3.5 trillion from this average currency account today for the goods and services in this budget. Now, next year, from today's wolf -- we don't know tomorrow -- under three and a half trillion dollars of spending, so let's say three trillion dollars means that middle and narrow incomes get even poorer; look, I'm giving you a lot of attention. The basic bill of this budget is poor for the middle and low-income. So let's come up with a short-term exit plan with the National Alliance, which has an election calendar immediately. Come on, let's make a common exit plan that's an election this spring. You brought this here with your current structure, but it's our country, it's our country. If this country is all of us, let's all shoulder it and clear the way for Turkey; it's a vicious budget. Now, we've done a minimum salary of $4,250, so be it good; the minimum wage in 2021 is 6,200 lira. This is from the dollar bill that day. As this budget was calculated, the minimum wage accounts were 3,500, and believe me, the minimum salary next month would be 6,500, my friends, a wave of the deep economic crisis in which we were in 4.250. Wherever that wave is taking us, we've come to 4,250, we've come to 4,250, so let's do it in a month, 5,500-6. It comes to 000. Today the stock market is closed, dear friends, the stock market is closed. Why is it closed? There's no one here to say that. The Turkish Republic's stock market is going from overdrawn to automatic today, but the dollar's going up, isn't it? Dollars go up, currency goes up. Look, in times of crisis like this, some people go from currency to stock market, that's normal. We're showing the development of abnormal, worse readable events, more severe. We haven't even heard a comment about them because in fact, political responsibility in the Republic of Turkey is running behind events today. The horse is in front of the groom, he'll catch it, he'll ride it, he'll rule it, the road will go. Politically, look, political responsibility is one of the most important elements of politics. Who's taking the political responsibility today? Under these circumstances, it will minimise the cost of opening the way for Turkey as the public is dealing with it. My dear friends, look, what we've come up with today in terms of economics is the story of the release of Turkish lira from the market and the story of being fired by the state itself. Now, the patient went to the doctor, the burn. The doctor said, "Yes, I understand these burns, but I don't understand these severe fractures." The patient said from below: "The doctor put them out with a shovel." (CELL PHONE RINGING) That's right, friends, now, look, what did the government do? What does the government do? He invests in his national money, his institutions, his reputation. We started in 2005, received ten years of power, guaranteed exchanges of electricity productions. 2015, Mr. Erdoğan was in charge as President, as Prime Minister, as a government; he extended another five years. December 2020 was unauthorized; it extended another six months; it doesn't matter now, it was not authorized in a time of unconstitutionality. In these five years alone, he dominated a $47 billion market; he produced dollars in this market, and there was a whole exchange market, and they had companies. Look, I'll give you some of the top 10 of these companies, see if they look familiar. Genghis Energy, Limak Energy, Interior Energy, Steel Energy, Kolin Energy.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0099par0118	So familiar, so familiar!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0119	Then we gave out the distributions; it's something that Mr. Erhan Usta has been bringing up for a few days; they're getting paid to invest, and it's tripled, from 7 billion to 22 billion, but there's no investment. Look, what does that mean? Chip producers are looking at electricity shortage rates when some industry invests in one country; Turkey is deterring investors because it has more power cuts than Morocco; it comes out of the investment climate. Well, let's see who we got. Genghis, Kolin, Limak, Sabanci. Now, dear friends, another story of the dollarization... look, the state is amplifying the economy, the state. ESU projects are 156 billion dollars, 156 billion, and all of the contractors here are citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Now, what did we give you for minimum wage? 50.4, right, sir? That gives the private sector minimum wage workers 50.4%. So, what are you guys gonna give these contractors? It starts on January 1st, right, minimum wage? It will start on January 1st, with a 50.4 percent increase in 4.200 liras on February 1st. On January 2, 2021, what percentage will the Ottomangazi Bridge contractor receive on January 2, 2022? With today's money, 157 percent. Fifty-four percent to the charger, already gone, but the contractor only has 157 percent to do today. How much is it worth? Look, when I was doing these studies, we started at, like, 650, which is $825 today. Now, they're coming here -- and they said today -- Minister of Energy, sir, we're paying three-quarters of the price of energy from the treasury. It's a necessity because the price of your energy has become unpayable, just like the Ottomangazi Bridge. Let's see, how much of this $825 will you get from the last one? Look, 320 liras this year. What do you get from the last one? 147 liras. You don't get more than half of it, you don't get it. Now, from January 2nd of 2022, how much of the $825 will he receive? These are no longer collectable prices, my friends. You know, he was criticizing our friends before, and I wasn't agreeing with that review. It is also taken from those who have not passed. The government already gives what has not passed, and now it gives what has passed. Let's do something, look, it's $688 million; I don't know how much it's worth today's wolf, but it's worth $12 billion. 12 billion pounds of state... 14 million, 600 thousand vehicles pass by, and the state will already pay $9 billion for 12 billion of Turkish dollars. Let's pay 2-2.5 billion dollars more for free, let's do these bridges for free, let's move these robbery booths, let's go. (Applause from the Party and CHP rows) Let God grant us 100 liras, let our nation give us a loan... because this bridge, which is $1 billion $200,000 in the world -- we talked about it last year -- by 2035, costs us 13 billion 15 million, and we're already paying too much. Dear friends, now, again, there are various speakers, let's make another correction. Sir, there's pandemics, there's jobs all over the world, there's this in Turkey, it's an old language. You know, I mean, you know what's left of them. Look, guys, this painting, the situation of the Turkish lira below, how the Turkish lira has been devalued from the beginning of 2021. Dear friends, those above are not German or European euros, Japanese are not new, Canadian dollars are not British pounds; those above are Russian rubles, Mexican pesos, South Africa randi and Brazil reali. These are considered to be the fragile five-leaders. If our money... because of the conjuncturality in the world, we call it decontamination of ill-management in Turkey, as we call it, from the beginning of 2018, which had lost 31 percent of the value of the influence of bad governance, what would our money be? Turkey is a building that blocks its path and really eliminates Turkey's resources. Very dear friends, Turkey has to get out of these conditions and if we go to national will, Turkey will come out of these conditions very quickly. Today, in Turkey, the crisis of democracy began with a crisis of law, continued with a management crisis, and in all its stages there is a state crisis, and Turkey must leave. We can't go anywhere with what's going on, the Cumhur Alliance is for what's going on, what's going on is here; let's go to the national will, if our nation is happy with what's going on, but we're for the creation of change and new. Of course, what we want is a restored, reinforced parliamentary system that suits Turkey and time. Let him be the 28th Prime Minister of Turkey, and let him rule Turkey; let him be the President in charge of Turkey's representation. (APPLAUSE) Look, it's clear today that the Republic of Turkey is a representative president. Yes, we agree, there's nothing wrong with legitimacy. But who's to say that the government has a president who will embrace 84 million? My dear friends, I just wanted to say that I think Mr. Elitas just mentioned the IMF report. Several international reports are being published. One of these international reports compares Turkey to a confused rider on a solid horse - a slightly different, confused rider. We agree that Turkey is a solid horse, Turkey has been a solid horse of all time. Turkey has the potential to solve this problem and bring it to the 21st century, but there are a lot of processes and processes in Turkey that we need to do by exiting quickly. We must establish the rule of law and bring the merit into this country through the gate. Look, the rule of law is that development is in the name of God, and that is the fundamental rule of the world today. The speakers just mentioned the savings deficit, those are old songs. Today development is not a matter of savings; today development is not even a matter of knowledge. Why? Because savings in the world are very cheap and information is very common. But today development is an organizational issue, a matter of data management. Turkey's human capital and Turkey's volume in geography are very skilled at building such an organisation. In and out of Turkey, young people struggling to get out of the country today, when we return to Turkey what we describe as 70 percent... when we build a story, when we write a new story, when we create hopes for tomorrows, they will return with their assets abroad. Turkey will achieve great success in this sense. Turkey's industry today has 20 per cent production, Turkey can't go anywhere with it. Turkey must increase its industry in production by 30 per cent, and it must invest in modern infrastructure. Turkey, for example, has to install 2 million kilometers of fiber optic cable. Today you go to Istanbul, Ankara, and as soon as you leave this city, you lose touch with the world. You think about the big companies, there's a Turkey that's 500,600,000 kilometers away. Turkey today has to deliver its railways and ports to all its cities. You didn't? You did it. In 20 years, 2,000 kilometers of railroad, yes, that's right; you've taken the railroad from 11,000 kilometers to 13,000 kilometers, but this, hopefully, will be a blessing to us. To 17,000... Turkey's normal capacity is 27,000 kilometers and Turkey must do so. In this framework, Turkey must transform agriculture. Look, whoever manages it has to be 45 per cent of Turkey's employment population. The employment of developed countries in the world is 55 percent of the population; we are young, we are young, it has to be 45 percent; that means 40 million registered jobs. There are ways to walk into this. The way to walk on this is to concentrate on it, right and good governance; that's what Turkey lacks. I'd like to stress a few more things, folks. First of all, it's about 128 billion. Look, it's about getting rid of the money. Dear friends, 128 billion is, of course, on the record, and this Congress, this politics, doesn't deserve to see a report on what 128 billion dollars is? Don't we deserve it? (APPLAUSE) Isn't that the lack and embarrassment of total politics in Turkey? What is it, friend? Sold at 6,32. What do you mean, selling 128 billion? On winter day, a child was released at night, and Turkish lira was left like that, and Turkish lira was left like this.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0100par0129	Mr. Dessertoglu, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0130	Mr. Erdogan called it a flag, became like a leaf and drifted away. I want to tell you about the National Security Council... the National Security Council recently put the economic issue on the agenda, which is nice, but if the National Security Council hasn't received a report on this $128 billion, if they haven't received a briefing, then the National Security Board has failed. In all honesty, nothing in Turkey has created a security breach of as much as 128 billion dollars, and we will all see it together. (PEOPLE Applause) Again, we don't call it taken. Another thing, dear friends, look, Mr. Home Secretary and the issues that come from there, the $10,000 issue, I'm taking it very hard, my friends.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0101par0134	Mr. Dessertoglu, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0135	There's a statement made by the Home Secretary in public. It's not curious which party this politician is from, it's curious who he is and who he is. I was in the Plan and Budget Commission, and I asked Mr. Nobleman in the morning about this and Sezgin Baran Korkmaz - I'm not a very knowledgeable person - Sezgin Baran Korkmaz - but I'm taking this very hard - and Mr. Noble said, "It's the evening of the wait." Those who asked waited, didn't wait, I don't know; I went, I went, I waited, there was no answer; there was no answer here. Dear friends, we're doing politics, we're going abroad on very different missions, our guests are coming. It's stuck to all of us, it's labeled on all of us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is the responsibility of Turkish politics to clarify these matters. With this, Turkey cannot and cannot walk to the floor with $528 billion, with contracts unaccounted for. Look, what we're dealing with today is really a process of lawlessness and corruption. As our President-General Coral Akshener said and brought up the subject, Turkey, this nation is just as worthy of universal law norms as it is of other countries, and our debt is to fulfill it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0102par0142	Mr. Tastyoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0143	In Paris, in London, in Tokyo, as someone trusts his state and law as they go out on the street, so must those who have left for Ankara. My dear friends, in this framework, this budget -- I think the most important benefit of this process -- there is no budget to discuss, no doubt -- is that we all agree on this -- is that we're talking about the economy over budget, our situation over budget, our situation over budget, Turkey over budget, Turkey over budget, where Turkey is, and we have to get something out of here, we have to move Turkey forward. Moving Turkey forward is a requirement and a necessity of this political responsibility. I'll bring it here and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The end...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0103par0147	Mr. Tastyoglu, let's finish. The end is already the fifth...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0149	Mr. President, I've been talking for 40 minutes, so give me a little bit more proportional.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0103par0150	Master Erhan used it a little bit. It's too...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0094par0151	It's a political responsibility. We are a group of politicians who respect the state, a group of politicians who love the nation, but we have a obligation to move Turkey to the 21st century. Moving Turkey to the 21st century requires that we get out of here. Carrying Turkey into the 21st century must take Turkey out of this freaky single-man system. Look at the polls, 24 per cent of the AK PARTY voters agree. God will divide our land for ever, and make our people happy and happy for ever. My respects.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0104par0155	Thank you. Dear friends, the first word on behalf of the person belongs to Mr. Jülide Sarıeroğlu of Adana MP. Here you are, Sarıeroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0160	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on behalf of the valuable MPs, the 2022 Central Management Budget Law and the 2020 Central Management Computing Law Proposal, all of which I have personally pledged in favor. I salute and salute our Veteran Assembly. We have reached the end of today's budget marathon, which began in the Plan and Budget Commission on October 20th, starting on December 6th, in our General Assembly, with its dessert, with its tense moments. A really intense negotiation process was carried out during 38 days of commission talks, with 1,650 demands met, and 12 days in our General Assembly, with different groups and representatives in our Parliament expressing their opinions and proposals in every dimension. I'd like to first thank everyone who has contributed to the draft of the budget and final account proposal at the very beginning of my remarks. I'd like to thank our President, Mr. Vice President of the General Assembly and Plan and Budget Commission, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, our President of the Plan and Budget Commission, and all of our Plan and Budget Commission members, our ministers and colleagues, all our patriotic deputies who have contributed to the talks, who have been working with us day and night, working with us in our Parliament. A lot of the speakers told me. The budget proposal for 2022 is the fourth budget of our EC PARTY, the presidential government system. Hopefully, we'll continue to submit the budget proposal to our Parliament for many more years within the presidential government system. Our Budget Proposal of 2022 is the budget of the nation, prepared to grow, improve, improve our country; from its employee, from its employer to its farmer, from its pensioner to its student, from the housewife to the woman, young, old, male, child, disabled, 84 million. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our budget proposal for 2022 is the development budget for Turkey, which will contribute to the successful and ambitious work we've been doing for 19 years. Our budget for 2022 is a social budget designed for human focus, social justice, aimed at strengthening individuals, families, women, all disadvantaged segments and communities so that the government can live. Dear lawmakers, the world is going through a different, different period than it has ever been in the past. We're going through a new and different period when trade, working styles, training, individual relationships, especially everything about life has changed, rules have been rewritten, balances have been restored. There is no country or institution or individual in the world that is not affected by this process. In particular, because of the pandemic's influence on health reforms, investments, the human resources that we've grown, the strong structure in social security that we've developed in the pandemic process for the past 19 years, we're very grateful that there were no unpleasant images of health for our citizens in other countries at this time. Again, we've been working nonstop for two years in mobilization to get our country and citizens out of this conjunctural situation with minimal damage. The price hikes, the imbalances in supply and demand balances, the failures in supply chains throughout the world continue to be a major risk factor in the country's production and consumption processes. In the process, our country acted quickly. In order to reduce the economic impact of the epidemic, our citizens have provided a total of 705 billion dollars in support, and it has also been offered $177 billion in support for our citizens and especially our working lives as part of the Social Protection Shield. Turkey's economy continued to grow during such a global process. Now, people who have a problem with everything local and national have been having trouble with TİK lately. All international organisations, such as OECD, World Bank, Eurostat, are highlighting this growth performance, not TÜİK figures. In 2020, Turkey was among the two countries growing within G20, with a 1.8 per cent growth rate. Again, during this period, we continued our performance of first quarter, second quarter, third quarter growth. The most important factor that affects our growth performance is that we live in exports, when we actually have the most powerful results in our history; the impact of exports has been very powerful in this growth performance. Again, what I care about is the foot... in his speech, Mr. Erhan Usta gave us some data, and we know that he likes numbers, but the numbers are a little off, especially in terms of employment. (Applause from the EC PARTY) Turkey's employment performance is a powerful performance and success by moving beyond employment data in 2019, while all countries of the world have yet to reach data in 2019 during such an epidemic.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0106par0172	Because in 2019, we were the most impressed.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0173	In particular, over the last year, from the past October to this October, the new number of jobs we've been providing is 2.5 million. So our employment has increased by 2.5 million people over the last year. You've just compared the number of planting to the number of June, and the percentage and the number of jobs in Turkey are increasing, I hope, will continue to increase.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0106par0174	Seasonal, corrected market.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0175	Our participation in the labor force continues to increase in this process. It has reached 33 million people, and in the same way, there have been strong declines in our unemployment rates while the labor force has increased, while employment increases. The underlying factor of this success, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is that we have quickly activated the inclusive, balancing, powerful social policies under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We have been fighting for 19 years to make our country a powerful star in every field and a powerful star in the world. Every step we've taken in 19 years, every reform we've made, every piece we've built, has a powerful effect on our present. We know exactly what we're doing at this time. At the last meeting of the United Nations in September, when he attended the last meeting, the world was bigger than the 5 ▪ at many of its previous national and international arenas. The world had to continue its cry in terms of economics, and the world had to move on in a fair way. Now, the United Nations Secretary General made a statement yesterday, underlined by the Secretary General of the United Nations that the global financial system contains inequality and instability as it passes through the world, and that the global financial system needs reform. This statement is once again an indication of how accurate Turkey is in its direction under the leadership of our President. I'd like to emphasize once again that Turkey has come out of this period with opportunities to act on its own resources in investments, in employment, in production, in exports, we've seen too much of the current. (APPLAUSE) This is not the Chinese model, this is the model of Turkey. In the past tenses, how is the Korean miracle? Here's the miracle of Japan. If it's been called the miracle of Ireland. Hopefully in the coming period, Turkey will come out with its own rules and its own road map, and this will be called the miracle of Turkey. Our road map is clear, our steps are clear. Someone might be looking for a porter, worried about making videos from the kitchen, sending messages; we're doing our job, we're moving on. Our only love, our only thought as the Republic Alliance, is our beloved nation. The needs, demands, expectations, peace, prosperity, work, income, education, health, safety; for all of this, the Cumhur Alliance is on its way, shoulder to shoulder, strong on the way to 2023. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm sorry, we've been listening to conversations for 12 days. There's no mention of today. There's been a lot of talk about it. Neither your vision nor your actions nor your imagination nor what you can do can reach us, and our nation sees it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0107par0181	Sarıeroğlu, one moment, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0182	We haven't put Turkey under political, economic yoke in 19 years, and hopefully, we won't do it anymore. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In 2008, we listened to what was said at this time. The world was going through a financial crisis again; our President said he would pass through Turkey. Again, that's when the voices came out today. There were attempts to trap Turkey in despair, pessimism, but we finally saw what happened. The global financial crisis at the time passed Turkey in tangent; Turkey emerged from that process with opportunities, strong breakthroughs, and continued on its way. Now, in this period, hopefully, we will continue our policies that will embrace all our citizens; their indicators follow. We made our collective agreements with our employees during the summer.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0107par0186	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0187	We've made a collective agreement with our public officials, and now, hopefully, at this time, we're still working on renovating this with additional protocols. Again, as of October 1st, in our Parliament, we make quick legal arrangements regarding our farmers, our tradesmen, all of our communities. Our efforts to protect our consumers continue, we will increase the controls. Again, we've put into practice a $10 billion package of incentives based on employment. The latest, as of yesterday, we have achieved a really significant increase by the minimum wage detection commission, with a three-way settlement. I wish this to be good for the whole business, for our country, for our nation. The net minimum wage will continue to be applied in 2022, hopefully at $4,253 lira. This fee has reached a level that will change the balance of all wages.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0108par0191	Mr. Sarıeroglu, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0192	Most importantly, we've been doing what we've been saying. We've been hearing things and so on. Since two days, I've been a graduate of working economics and industrial relations; I've worked in this field. We have a lot of friends here who work in this area.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0109par0193	Why didn't you do the raises when you were minister?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0194	As soon as the minimum wage Commission begins to set minimum wage, all social parties have voiced the demand for the removal of taxes on minimum wage.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0109par0195	Why didn't you do it when you were minister?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0196	There has been a revolution in this period because we care about participation, about working together culture, about consultation. Not only the minimum wage, but the minimum wage fees of all payers have been exempted from taxes. (AK PARTY) This is truly revolutionary, with positive developments in tax slices as well as its impacts on all pay levels. Social policy instruments are obvious. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Using social policy instruments at the right time is essential.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0110par0199	Mr. Sarıeroglu, in the fourth minute, please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0200	But thankfully, our AK PARTY powers have done so strongly to this day. The increase in minimum wage also has an effect: there will be a similar increase in all payments, such as disability pensions, home care fees for disabled persons, unemployment insurance again, severance pay, and 65-year-old monthly payments. This decision that protects the pensioner, protects the laborer, aims to maintain production at work, I hope it's good luck. From now on, with regard to our pensions, hopefully, our strong arrangement, our work on 3600, our citizens, our nation's demands, our needs, our expectations, will continue strongly as the Cumhur Alliance, led by our President. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We will continue, hopefully, to fulfill the expectation, demand, dream, write new success stories with reforms.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0111par0205	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0206	In this direction...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0111par0207	It's been five minutes, but... five minutes to ten is too much.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0112par0208	They cut in, they cut out.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0209	Mr. President, I swear...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0113par0210	Tell me about the Turkish budget.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0114par0211	Please... let's salute...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0105par0212	Thank you. With these feelings and thoughts, I wish our budget of 2022 to be blessed. I salute our High Council with respect. Have a good day.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0115par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0116par0217	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0115par0218	Mr. President, the orator who just gave me my name has made a mockery of two things. First, the numbers were confused.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0116par0219	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0115par0221	Mr. President, first of all, don't worry, we won't miss the numbers, I'll tell you that. Let me give you some technical information for once. When the seasonal corrective data is used, when you remove seasonal effects, you can compare each month to the other, Mr. Secretary; I'll tell you that first. So there's no problem comparing planting with June, if you're using seasonal corrective data or if you've heard of it. Now, what I said was that the employment rate... we're saying that our jobs are up right now, right? We've brought it to a certain point. You're saying that. Our employment rate is 46.2%. This is the employment rate that we took in June 2015 when we went backwards. So you've barely caught the employment rate that was captured six years and three months ago, okay? Then you say it here like it's something to brag about. That's what I'm saying, is there anything wrong with that? That's one. Secondly, the same employment rate... look, and we can clearly see that the presidential system -- I told you from here -- has done real economic damage to this country. If you go to July 2018, which is the beginning of the new system - that was 47.7. So right now, after the party presidential system, we're one and a half points below that, so let's write that down. Another note: Data, current employment data, in the same series, without a series of breaks -- look, for your understanding of my technical integrity -- is going to January 2014. So that's where I'm going, so I'm going from January 2014 to October 2021, 15 plus the increase in age population of 7 million 431,000 people. So, how much are we hiring here? Four million, 147 thousand people. So when we look at it, it's reached its working age since the last 2014, but our 3.3 million people haven't been given a job.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0117par0226	Mr. Master...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0115par0227	Is there anything wrong with these? So the numbers were confused. It would be wrong to say. I salute the General Assembly. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0118par0235	Dear friends, on behalf of the administration, I will now promise Mr. Fuat Oktay. Here you are, Mr. Oktay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0119par0239	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I salute the General Assembly of our Veteran Assembly and our nation following budget talks at the beginning of their screens. Following its presentation to our Supreme Assembly on October 15th, we are now close to the end of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law, which began in the Plan and Budget Commission on October 20th, and the General Assembly of Central Management's Computational Law Proposals for 2020. Once again, I thank the Honourable Speaker of the Assembly and all the MPs, the highly valued President and members of our Council, Plan and Budget Commission, our ministers, our public institutions and executives, their employees, and all the members of the House. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] At the beginning of my words, on the 748th anniversary of the Voslat anniversary, I remember the Holy Roman Empire with mercy and gratitude, and I wish that his triumph should continue all over the world from Anatolia. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the executive body of the budget talks, we see our vision of our president as a place where we answer to the nation. And we've always believed that the more we discuss, argue and improve, the bigger accidents we're going to have, the more we're going to have, the more we're going to have, the more we're going to have, the more we're going to have, the more we're going to have, the more we're going to have, the more we're going to get. Since the beginning of the budget talks, our MPs have moved important and useful issues to our agenda, and we've been very sensitive about it, and we've taken notes. Comprehensive presentations have been made regarding every single pencil in our budget, especially economic, foreign trade, education, health and safety. We've tried to correct the right wrongs and explain what's what in the most transparent and clear, as we clarify the questions of our esteemed lawmakers, their criticisms. As we explained the facts to our nation, we also made our stand against distortions clear again. Of course, we have given the necessary response to personalized criticism and comments that exceed the limits of respect. You insisted on asking who's budget, what's budget, and what does it serve? It is clear that we spend our budgets on the welfare, infrastructure, stability of 84 million of our citizens in 81 counties. We've actually shared all the details of this with you. If you just look at the work that we've been doing since the beginning of the budget negotiations, I'm just talking about the last two months, you'll actually see quite well what our government is using the budget for and how it works. You know, for two months you've been talking about the empty side of the scale, and if you want, I'll tell you what's changed on the full side of the scale. We paid $342 million for our COBI. I'm talking about these last two months, from the day the budget started, from October 17th to today. As part of private sector, university and public support for TÜBITAK, we transferred $44m in grants to the 2.589 project. We've provided 47 million lira incentives for incubation centers in six technology development areas. In the meantime, he's only registered with an industrial record of 2,845 new industries. Again, 498 new factories have been opened only in organised industrial areas. The industrial production plant doesn't open here. These were opened when you said it. We opened the Linear Metal Chinese Production Facility, which will produce half the zinc needs that we are completely dependent on, and laid the foundations of lead, silver, sulfuric acid factories. At the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge, we set up the last table, almost ready for the opening. In a short period of two months, we completed six tunnels, 40 bridges, and viaducts, with another 71 kilometers divided. We've successfully conducted test driving near the end of the Zevatepe-Istanbul Airport subway line at the Paperhouse-Istanbul Airport. We carried out the 20th National School of Education with the theme of opportunity equality in basic education, improved vocational education and vocational development of teachers. In order to quickly adapt the transformations in the industrial sector to vocational education, we launched a vocational and technical guidance programme between our Ministry of Education and our Ministry of Industry and Technology. More than that, we've activated an electric production facility of 517.3 megawatts, including 487.6 megawatts renewable energy and 29.6 megawatt thermals. With the renewable energy capacity we've given our country in just two months, we'll be in the way of about $165 million a year of natural gas imports. Again, in just this short period of time, about 380,000 tons of boron products -- I stress this in particular -- were exported, and from this export came 155 million dollars in revenues. In addition, we have prepared 2030 Uninterrupted Vision Documents in cooperation with all parties concerned to strengthen the rights of disabled citizens. We included the SMA test as part of the pre-marital tests to minimize SMA disease. Last month, we made the appointment of 1,050 young people raised in state protection to more public institutions and institutions. We completed the Istanbul Ataturk Cultural Centre in almost two years, serving on October 29th on the Day of the Republic. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition to 17 movies, we provided $25,600,000 for the 18 cultural and artistic activities project. We opened Ankara and Eskişehir Millet Gardens and the Umraniye Millet Gardens. It's a model work...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0120par0254	Shame, shame! What disrespect!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0121par0255	What do you think this is, Travel Park? This is the General Assembly! What disrespect!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0122par0256	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0123par0257	This is a sign of your insufferability, a clear sign of your insufferability in our service to the nation. It's not against me, it's against our government, it's against our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0122par0259	Let's keep the General Assembly working order, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0124par0260	This isn't Travel Park! This isn't Travel Park!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0125par0261	A disciplinary action, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0126par0262	Even if you're not happy with our service to you people, I'm still doing it. With exemplary environmental awareness, on November 11th, we had about 700,000 of our citizens from 81 counties meet with the soil. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Let those who speak of the forest hear. Keep talking, we made it happen. You talk, we do.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0127par0265	If you talked about inflation... talk about numbers, numbers.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0126par0266	We held the historic Turkish Organization Summit in Istanbul, hosted by Turkey. At the meeting of our President's presidency, the Turkish World's 2040 Vision Document has been approved. It is announced to those who speak of foreign policy.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0128par0268	Mr. President is officially playing, why would you allow such a thing? He's playing!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0129par0269	This isn't a theater!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0126par0270	No, they can't do anything else anyway. They can't do anything else, they're repeating what they've done so far.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0130par0272	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0126par0273	It's being hosted by our country... You keep playing, we'll continue to serve our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0130par0275	Mr. Oktay, Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0131par0276	Don't get angry, go ahead Mr. Oktay, no one gives us a say, we sing and sing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0126par0277	You guys keep playing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0131par0279	There's nothing to be angry about.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0132par0280	Mr. Milky, it is my duty to ensure the general council's working order.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0131par0281	There's the president. Let him promise we'll use our democratic rights.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0133par0282	You guys keep playing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0131par0283	Go back and tell the President, he'll promise.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0134par0284	I warn you, or I will enforce disciplinary action.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0135par0285	Then you have to promise us, Mayor! Then you have to promise us!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0131par0287	He's not answering, he's not coming back, he's not making a promise according to 60. Let him do what he needs to do.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0136par0288	We'll continue to serve, you keep playing. The African Union Summit, hosted by our country, is now in Istanbul. You guys keep playing. (AK PARTY) Leaders will continue with their summit tomorrow morning. You guys go ahead and play.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0131par0290	You're gonna have your last year, too, but according to him!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0137par0291	You're afraid to give me five minutes to talk, five minutes, five minutes!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0138par0292	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0139par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0140par0294	We've completed the concept design, an important step towards the construction of our national submarine.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0138par0295	Mr. Oktay, Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0140par0296	You guys keep playing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0138par0297	Mr. Oktay, please... Guys, look, I'm going to put it to a vote that requires a reprimand. Please... this is the second time I've warned you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0141par0299	Are you going to have to punish me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0142par0300	We had completed the construction of our first domestic and national sea cannon in, like, two months, in record time.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0143par0302	If you don't like it, get out!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0144par0303	How disrespectful, Mr. President!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0142par0304	And we've been able to do the test shots again last month and strengthen our fleet. You guys keep playing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0145par0307	I've been dancing for you, and you obviously like to play, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0142par0308	On the Tigris River, it's like a peace, peace and prosperity necklace in the region...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0145par0309	We condemn your antidemocratic understanding, which does not promise a small party for five minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0142par0310	...we have opened the Ilisu Veysel Eroglu Dam and the Hydroelectric Plant.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0146par0311	Mr. Oktay, Mr. Oktay...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0142par0312	Let the opposition continue to play.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0147par0314	We condemn the Speaker who doesn't answer the phone of the president of a party.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0146par0316	Dear Oktay... friends...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0147par0317	We condemn you!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0148par0318	Shut up!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0146par0319	Guys, wait a minute... Friends, I'm reading the 160th Amendment, the 6th column of the Civil Code: to bring and use foreign currency, banners, and such material that disturbs the working order and peace of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0149par0321	We're not breaking order, Mr. President, we're using our right to protest.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0150par0322	Let's throw them both out!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0146par0323	Dear friends, according to Article 163, the indictment and temporary dismissal of the Parliament shall not be discussed by the General Assembly on the President's proposal, but by the signatory vote.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0151par0324	I demand defense.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0146par0325	I'm here to condemn this punishment...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0152par0326	The penalty for dismissal from the General Assembly, Mr. President, is a dismissal from the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0146par0327	...to your votes for Mr. Sera Kadigil Milk, those in favor of...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0153par0328	He's entitled to his defense.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0154par0329	I demand a defense, and you must give me the right to defend, for there is a clear judgment of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0155par0330	Mr. President, there is no such thing in the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0156par0332	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0155par0333	Mr. President, there is no such decree in the Civil Code. You can't interpret the Civil Code as arbitrary.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0157par0334	Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0158par0335	No, they can play, Mr. President, I'm fine with that.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0155par0336	We're here... Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0159par0337	You have to give me a say.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0158par0338	They can play, Mr. President, I'm fine with that. I'll continue to tell you about the services.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0155par0340	Mr. President, you're going to talk, we're going to talk, everyone's going to talk.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0160par0341	Talk about what? From the Civil Code... what are you going to talk about?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0155par0342	Mr. Speaker, there is no such verdict.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0161par0343	How?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0155par0344	We're taking the right to democratic protest. The definition of the Civil Code does not rule.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0162par0345	Sit down, this isn't a showroom!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0161par0347	Mr. Oktay, I'd like to interrupt your time and make a promise of defense. Okay?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0163par0348	What are you doing?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0164par0349	Nothing, we're informing our people. Are you doing something embarrassing here? Go ahead, you're live, you can wave.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0161par0350	Just a minute... we'll get it done, we'll get it done. No one can disturb the peace of this House, my friends.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0163par0351	Yeah, well, tell them why you're telling us.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0164par0352	We're not disturbing the peace, we're protesting.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0165par0353	We're not disturbing the peace, Mr. Speaker, we're protesting.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0166par0355	Mr. Oktay, I'm ruining your time. Would you excuse us for a moment?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0164par0356	If you're going to punish him, you're going to give him the right to defend himself.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0166par0357	Yes, friends, for the defense, Mr. Erkan...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0167par0359	Take it easy, fellas. There's the Civil Code; if it's a crime, there's a penalty. Sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0164par0360	Your Speaker will punish you, don't panic.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0168par0361	Sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0169par0362	Get the fuck out of here! Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0170par0363	This isn't a showroom.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0171par0364	Mr. Speaker, I'm going to take my word for it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0172par0365	Mr. President, we're using our democratic right to protest here.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0173par0366	It's not right for this to come up here.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0174par0367	Yes, for the defense, Mr. Chief...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0175par0368	Mr. President, a dear friend of mine will defend me. Please listen with respect.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0176par0369	What are we charged with, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0174par0370	To defend himself or any other friend of the congressman's... Mr. Head, come in. [[A round of applause from TIP MPs and HDP rows]] I'll give you five minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0177par0374	The House hearings are in ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0174par0375	No, I'll give you five minutes, five...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0177par0376	Mr. President, ten minutes to debate the procedure.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0174par0377	Please... no, I'll give you five minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0178par0378	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0177par0379	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0178par0380	Hey, enough, bro, if you're gonna talk, talk, if you're gonna defend, defend! Don't show off here!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0179par0381	Guys, please... Wait a minute... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0180par0385	Now, dear lawmakers, let me start by telling you what we're doing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0181par0387	Tell me what?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0179par0388	Mr. Head, just a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0182par0389	Only if we can maintain order for the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0179par0390	Guys, wait a minute... guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0183par0391	Mr. President, interfere with the AKP Group...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0184par0392	Don't shout! Don't shout, calm down!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0183par0393	Mr. President, please, they're disrupting the order. Sit down, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0185par0394	Don't stretch the coven!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0186par0395	Sit, Cora, sit!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0187par0396	Guys... Mr. Chief, look, I've given you time to defend, please remind you that you need to talk about the matter or I'll intervene according to Article 66. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0188par0398	Mr. President, 10 minutes without...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0187par0399	No, no, please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0189par0400	Reset time... reset time... reset time...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0190par0401	Shut up!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0191par0402	Mr. President, can you reboot the time?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0192par0403	I'm rebooting the clock. Here you go. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0193par0406	Dear friends, we've been demanding word on behalf of the Turkish Labour Party for days. Thanks to them, opposition parties have shown solidarity, lawmakers have spoken, but our request for the Turkish Labour Party has not been met. We thank the opposition parties again, but we want our rights, we want ours, and as you can see, we've got it, we've got it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0194par0408	What did you get? Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0193par0410	Here, we've shown you once again that you can't stop us from having a say. So we're not going to defend ourselves, we're going to defend the people.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0194par0411	Where are you going to defend it? Are you going to defend me at Jahangir? Will you defend me in Jahangir, or in Jahangir?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0193par0412	Dear friends, in the budget process, the public's voice was supposed to be expressed on this bench. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] So...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0194par0415	The voice of the people...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0195par0416	Mr. Head...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0193par0417	Mr. President, may I have a word?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0195par0418	Wait a minute... I promised you a plea of contempt.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0193par0419	Yes, I'm defending myself, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0196par0420	Where are you going to defend it?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0197par0421	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0198par0422	Is that how we're gonna defend ourselves, defend ourselves? Is that how we're gonna defend ourselves?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0197par0423	The AKP Group has the right to stand up and listen?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0199par0424	I'm warning you according to 66.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0200par0425	I'm telling you what I did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0199par0426	I can interrupt your right to speak after the second warning. Look, please... please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0200par0427	I'm telling you what we're doing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0201par0429	Let them sit down, Mr. President; they attack, then there's disgrace. It's so unnecessary.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0202par0430	How's he gonna plead, Mayor?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0200par0431	But you're cutting him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0201par0432	The General Assembly is officially disrupting our order right now, the AKP Group, I don't see it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0203par0433	You're doing it!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0204par0435	That's how it's gonna be, but...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0205par0436	Can you start my time?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0204par0437	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0206par0438	It doesn't suit you, Mr. President, they have to sit down. Mr. President, they have to sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0207par0439	Deputy Director of the Group, why don't you sit your friends down? Why don't they just sit down and listen?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0208par0440	Dear friends, what I know is that Parliament is spoken of, it is not where people are silenced, Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0209par0442	Then listen to who's talking.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0210par0443	What you said before...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0211par0444	Erkan, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0212par0445	You go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0446	Mr. President, can he have such a right to defend himself?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0214par0447	Like this, yeah, like this, what do we do?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0448	Dear friends, in order to get that say...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0215par0449	You disrespected me, you disrespected me.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0450	We've met with the presidents of the group, we've met with the Deputy Directors of the Group, we've spoken with the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0216par0451	You don't listen to anyone who talks, you expect respect, you rude man!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0452	No, dear friends, we're struggling to speak, you're making noise everywhere, we're trying to keep the House quiet. What we want to say is that we need to find ways and ways to express them in a democratic way.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0217par0453	Just make a defense.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0454	So we say, "Let no one be angry, let no one be offended, the voice of the people, the voice of the righteous, cannot be stopped anywhere, he finds a place to say his word in some way." So, basically, what we're trying to say is, in this five-minute period, what we're trying to say is that it's not very different from what a lot of people say in this budget debate.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0218par0456	You play music when the preacher talks from the stand!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0457	Dear friends, we say, since you want to bring personal discussion to the issue...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0218par0458	Come on, man!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0459	Mr. President, I cannot exercise my right to defend myself.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0218par0461	What right to defend? What are you defending?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0219par0462	Please continue.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0463	No, I want to exercise my right to defend myself. The right to defend is sacred, I want to exercise my right to defend.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0220par0464	Mr. President, are the AKP MPs standing by to attack?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0221par0465	You played music, you were rude...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0466	I'm not talking in this environment! What kind of right is that to defend?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0222par0467	That's the way it is, no...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0468	There is no crime, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0222par0469	Please, no...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0470	There's no crime.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0222par0471	That's not true. You broke the working order, explain it to me, why did you break it?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0472	It's a work order... That's the working order?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0222par0473	Okay, we're warning you, but...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0474	No, you don't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0222par0475	No, there's no such thing. There's no House of Milk. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0476	So if you're going to operate against us, you're going to have to operate against everyone here.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0223par0477	You're putting on a show, this is the Great National Assembly of Turkey, a place that defends the will of the people.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0478	Dear friends, the bottom line is, you know as well as I do is that in this budget, the wealth of the people, the wealth of the people, is being siphoned into the palace. We went on this stand to say this, and you may be afraid to say it, but we will.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0224par0479	We're not afraid of anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0480	Now, if we could talk here under normal circumstances, there'd be a lot of things to talk about, but the bottom line is, you ate, fat, fat, bloated, screwed up.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0225par0482	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0483	Naturally, you will be judged, dear friends. As his citizen trembles in the freezing cold, those who collect bales of bales in their crates will be judged.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0226par0484	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0485	While mothers can't buy food to feed their children, the courts will be filled with lebaleps because of the tenders you've distributed to each other.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0227par0487	Mr. Chief, regarding the matter... Please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0488	Dear friends, I don't give a damn.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0227par0489	It's about...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0490	Guys, calm down, calm down...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0228par0491	You calm down!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0492	Look, what we're saying is, just like your headman said, we're calling it a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0229par0493	Defense, defense!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0494	Menka dukka. My final words: Don't make me speak, shout, shout, but my dear friends, let everyone know that just as the age of tulips is over, so will all of you be judged.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0230par0497	Go! Go!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0213par0498	Louder, louder.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0231par0499	Friends, I propose to the General Assembly that İstanbul MP Saliha Sera Kadigil Milkylü be condemned: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's going to be filed. Mr. Oktay, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0232par0502	That wasn't a defense. Are we going to talk about the budget after we break it like this?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0233par0503	Respect the Speaker, please!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0232par0504	That's your idea of democracy.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0234par0505	You'll get used to it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0235par0506	President, he's got to get out, President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0236par0507	He took offense, reprimand; he didn't take stickers.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0235par0508	Mr. President, he has to leave.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0237par0509	It's a reprimand. It's a reprimand.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0238par0510	Mr. President, are the prisoners coming out or are we staying?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0239par0511	Be respectful and get out of here.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0237par0512	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0240par0514	Mr. President, I'd like to address my people from here. For two months, I've been handing over the situation in the House to our nation, who's been talking, who hasn't heard anything since morning, who's been talking, who's been talking, who's always blaming us, who's talking about one man!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0241par0516	Mr. President, you haven't spoken in 12 days, 12 days.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0242par0517	Again with the victimization?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0243par0518	Oh, don't be a victim! Don't be a victim!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0519	It's not a pirate democracy, it's not a pirate democracy, it's a dictatorship, it's indigestion. It's disrespectful to the nation, and it's disrespectful to every member of the General Assembly, not just us. It's not defense, it's the right thing to do, and you're talking about right and justice, and you're doing it and you're ignoring it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0245par0520	It is We who are the losers.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0521	I'm transferring you to our nation, and when is that?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0246par0522	But you can transfer it to the palace, you can transfer it to whoever appointed you. We transfer it to the people, you transfer it to the palace, that's the difference between us.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0523	Only in two months, when you're talking about the empty side of the scale and we're telling our nation about our services. You can't even stand it! Is that your idea of democracy? We'll see him in June 2023, we'll go to the referee, and our nation, the referee, will teach you this lesson, give you all of you. I'll go on anyway.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0247par0524	Bravo! Go on, bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0248par0525	Is that your idea of democracy? You're talking for an hour as a assigned officer.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0526	I'm still gonna keep going. Look, we shut up about everything. You went so far as to speak to a president who was at the top of the leaders today and a president of six or seven presidents, we didn't make a sound, we didn't ruin our respect. We said it belongs to the president of the state.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0249par0527	He's the president of the AKP.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0250par0528	This is the National Assembly, we can bring criticism to anyone we want.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0529	We invite you to the National Assembly, the General Assembly, to democracy in the hall where the will of the people is represented.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0251par0531	Yeah, you can't say that! We represent, we represent! You're just an officer.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0252par0532	Don't shout! Don't shout! Jackal!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0533	You won't be able to stop us, our people won't give you this opportunity, and we'll see about that. I will, again, continue to tell our nation of our services, whether you play or jump or rebel. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Moving on: last time I mentioned the opening of hydroelectric power plants. Of course, you couldn't resist, it's just easy to criticize. Ilisi Veysel Eroglu told you about the opening of the Dam, not the projects. It's too much, isn't it? Go ask our fellow citizens where that dam is opened, see where they are.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0253par0537	You've destroyed 12,000 years of history, and that's what you're bragging about?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0538	I continue: The President's new incentive package for our small and medium-sized enterprises, again, 2 additional Employment Support Packages and the Immalata Dayan Importance Support Package, which was also shared with our nation. Let me continue: We've made our fifth generation communications satellite ready to launch into space. You know those people who talk about technology, you keep talking about it, and we'll keep doing it. We've had the highest minimum wage increase in years while you continue to speak here, while you continue to criticize. At the same time, we also received an additional load from our employer by removing income and stamp taxes from minimum wage. And I've just said, look, these two months of activities, there's not just transportation, industry, agriculture; there's culture, there's art, there's foreign policy, there's environment, there's technology, there's energy. Again, these are not just in one region, but in Ziirt, Eskişehir, Çanakkale from Mardin to Çanakkale; I have not even counted the hundreds of major projects that are going on. In a short period of two months, these studies are addressed to each and every one of our 84 million citizens, including their younger and older and older, with their SME tradesmen, producers, designers, workers, engineers, farmers, artists, and artists. Here, under the leadership of our President, the motto of our government is to deliver services to every province, every region, and to every citizen, as you can see from our two-month history. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's how we've prepared our budget, and we're going to apply it. Praise be to God, we have our mark on the field and our face on the blend. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Once again, we're light-headed, high-headed. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) And I've just expressed my pride, and we've done one of the highest increases in history in minimum wage.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0254par0544	Fastest melting money ever.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0255par0545	In dollars, in dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0546	We set it at $4,253.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0255par0547	How much is it in dollars?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0548	So, we've determined the minimum wage, with an increase of 2.5 times the amount of headline inflation. With the increase rates and the minimum wage being taxed, we have made the employer and the worker smile, but there is a part of them who are not happy with the joy of the nation. We just saw it again, actually. Again, a sense of opposition that can't go beyond saying, "I'll give you five more, whatever you're giving me." Labor unions are feasting, employers are handing out thank-yous in a row, and the minimum wage as a government entity is within our reach. Be a little local and national. Learn to share in the happiness of others.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0256par0550	You need to learn, too.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0551	We've made 50 percent of the minimum wage, the biggest increase in recent years, but Mr. Kilicdaroglu, however much we don't. It seems that he's not very happy. And once again, as we did yesterday, we will not have our minimum wage, today or tomorrow, we will not have our officer or our employee or our pensioner crushed or crushed by inflation.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0257par0553	We'll soon see what you've got. We'll see about that in a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0554	Our government stands tall with all its institutions. What our nation expects from the CHP is that the nation will embrace its values, but frankly, it's a lie, not a book. We have a plan, too.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0258par0555	How much is the dollar? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0556	As we continue our budget negotiations here, it seems that Kilicdaroglu took a break from the tweet. (CHP rows) You expect mankind to mature as you age.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0259par0557	People are hungry.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0244par0558	From what we can tell, he's described himself.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0259par0560	Come on, he's gonna ask you? Know your place, know your place! The word belongs to the owner and it belongs to the owners.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0260par0563	We're in the ground, you're still talking!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0261par0564	Don't talk to me, Mr. President. On this occasion, we have seen once again how far apart those who talk about a lot of kindness in budget talks are from intimacy.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0262par0566	I think you're looking in the mirror.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0263par0567	Just tell me how much the diesel costs.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0568	We will continue our fight in the same way that we have stood firm so far as those who have carried out important democratic reforms and development moves in our Republic history. We certainly don't ignore the troubles, the problems, the ramifications. We are the ones who will deal with all the challenges and overcome all the challenges, including the negative effects of the epidemic, the obstacles we face internationally and the manipulative effects on our economy, and we have prepared our budget with that awareness. In 19 years, one by one, we have raised, strengthened our country, given self-confidence and enriched it. We did it, we did it with the Cumhur Alliance, we did it together. As the Republic Alliance, we will continue to sign together in steps that will benefit our nation and bring value to our country. Whether you like it or not. Like you, we do not make our alliances behind closed doors; we are transparent, open; we declare to the whole world who our partners are, as loud as we can, and we say, "Our forehead is open, our heads are high, and we do not try to hide as you do."
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0265par0572	You're talking nonsense.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0573	We will continue to move further ahead with the progress we have made with our structure, which never gives up in the face of adversity. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're going to use our budget of 2022 to increase the prosperity of our country and to make development sustainable, just like our previous budgets. We continue to move the financial space we create from education to industry to agriculture to energy to development in all areas. In our strategy to grow our country on the basis of investment, employment, production and export, the most important task falls to our industry. We are happy to follow the great breakthrough of our industry through the powerful infrastructure we have established over the past 19 years. We're making our Turkey a giant production base in the industry. Since our organised industrial zones are running out of room to open factories, there are constant demand for expansion and opening new areas. With the in and out of our industrial zones, the truckload of trucks and trucks at our border crossings is not a tourist destination, but a sign of production and export. In this process, we aim to prevent $50 billion in imports per year, especially by increasing domestic production in mobile, digitalization, health and chemistry. Mr. Chebi was persistently talking about technology, Mr. Chebi, here's technology. As part of the TOGG project, which is of great importance to the Turkish economy, industry and technology ecosystem, the first mass production tool, hopefully, will be coming off the tape by the end of 2022, which we will download from the tape. We're also taking on the Green Organised Industrial Certificate System to transform our industry's main actor, organised industrial regions. We're environmentalists. We don't say it for nothing. If we say something, we do it, we do it. However, we will continue to provide the producers with the necessary support in the industry for swift transformation and digitalization. As part of our National Space Program, in 2022, the design of our spacecraft and our domestic propulsion system will be completed and the integration process will begin. You were saying, "Technology." In 2022, the Turkish astronaut's election process will be completed and the training process will begin, and the design of the cube satellite from the International Space Station will be completed and the production will begin. Currently, there is work on the flying car project in the I.T. Valley. And when we said that, you couldn't even visualize it in your gut like you always do, you tried to make fun of it. Even though it sounds like a fantasy to you, you'll see how we can use these technologies in human and cargo transport, like our story of human and human success that evolved from local drone to Raider to native fighter aircraft, and from there to there. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we will continue our work without slowing down the energy field, which is the basic infrastructure of development. Turkey thus stepped up as a country preparing early for the green development revolution. In the coming period, the Bor Karbür Production Facility, founded in 2019, is planned to be completed in the first half of the year 2022, and we are planning. Work is also under way for the establishment of the 600 tonnes annual Lithium Carbonate Production Facility. The construction tender for this facility is intended to take place within 2022. As part of renewable energy sources (YEKA), our portfolio will reach 8,500 megawatts in 2022. With all of this capacity in place, natural gas imports of $2.5 billion annually are expected to be prevented. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have set a historic record, leaving our exports behind 221 billion dollars a year in trade. For the first time, our country's share of exports in the exports of the world has exceeded 1 per cent year-on-year. In 2022, we have complete faith that our success in foreign trade will continue and that this success will contribute to our country's economic growth and development. We aim to increase the share of high- and high-tech exports with important investments in many areas, foreign investments that we've taken from abroad, new-generation zones of residency that we've established, and technokents. As part of the strategy studies of increasing exports to remote countries, we are also aiming to achieve $88 billion in exports to 18 countries that are 64 per cent of the world's economy, four times as much as our exports, and soon. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we've all seen together how strategicly important our investments in the transportation area are in our development move, and there's no doubt about our recent developments. If Turkey didn't have bridges today, tunnels, via via via viaducts, over 28,000 kilometers of roads divided, had it not been renovated as if it had made the railway path from scratch, it would not have been so easy if it had not increased the number of airports to 56. We continue with the same thrill and understanding of transportation investments. We plan to complete five more logistical center constructions next year, raising the number of logistical centers from 12 to 17. We've finished testing our electric train set at 100 miles an hour, and by 2022, we'll be operating our national electric train, hopefully, on the tracks. Haliç, Tekirdağ, Datça and New Foca Yacht Harbor and the upper construction facilities of Filyos Harbor will be completed and opened to run next year. We'll launch a SpaceX Falcon 9-B satellite on Sunday, December 19th -- so this weekend -- around seven o'clock in the morning, hopefully, it'll be on its way to its place in space, hopefully, to take its place in space. When it's finished, we'll be among the 10 countries that can produce communications satellites. Which one? I mean TÜRKSAT 6A. Our national telecommunications satellite, TÜRKSAT 6A.'s assembly and integration testing processes continue in Ankara. Mr. President, we've changed the face of our country with the services we've performed in the field of environmental and urbanism. With public housing practices, with national gardens, urban transformation projects, we're thinking of bringing our people back to safe, peaceful, high-standard living spaces. In addition, Turkey's Environment Agency and I are setting up a deposit management system. With 4 billion dollars per year in our economy, we will begin a deposit which will provide employment for tens of thousands of citizens as of January 2022. Yozgat Çapanoglu Mosques and Erzurum and Edirne historical squares will complete the healing work in the 79 historical squares in 44 provinces. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're building human-centered, living libraries in life with the power to satisfy all the knowledge and cultural needs of society. Those of you who talked about the book, the library, the library, that you couldn't see it, that you didn't open it, that you're going to be the largest library in Istanbul with a 38,000 square metre area, and we're going to offer it to you in 2022; we'll wait, we'll wait, we'll wait, we'll wait for you. If you don't go to the library, you'll think it's closed.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0266par0587	Don't give us any advice. You do your own talking, don't be rude.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0588	I especially recommend that those who are not related to the bookcase visit the libraries that our young people are looking for. At least 12 areas like Gobeklitepe in Şanlıurfa, we will bring the region to more cultural tourism. We'll bring it to tourism. Even with this project alone, I'm talking about increasing the tourism potential of Şanliurfa. Of course, it's not like we're going to Sanliurfa to offer free electric promises from a large pouch. If you're thinking of giving the farmer free electricity through municipalities, please start with our Adanan, Antalya, Hatay farmers. Why don't you start, who's stopping you?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0267par0591	You shouldn't have privatized it! You shouldn't have privatized the power distribution!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0592	Our vice president told me yesterday, who's holding you, what are you waiting for?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0268par0593	Hold on, here we go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0594	Court reviews have also shown how CHP administrations in CHP-run municipalities exploit resources.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0269par0595	Why don't you do your job? Why don't you do your job? It's none of your business, you do your job! Make your presentation!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0270par0596	None of your business! You shut up! You shut up!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0597	What scandalous practices of this mentality? You told me, we'll tell you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0269par0598	Whatever CHP's doing to you! What do you care about CHP?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0271par0599	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0600	You told me...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0269par0601	What do you care about CHP municipalities? Do your job!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0271par0602	Friends... friends...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0603	You told me. What do you mean, what do I care? Let me tell you: patience, patience, patience...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0269par0604	Behave yourself! We've been listening for an hour. You're picking on me, behave!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0272par0605	You behave yourself! You behave yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0264par0606	I'll tell you what the scandalous practices of this mindset are, just a few, if you can't stomach them, just a few.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0273par0607	How many engines do you have?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0274par0608	Behave yourself! What's it to you at CHP City Hall? You tell your budget, you defend your budget!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0275par0609	Who are you? Shut up! Shut up! Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0276par0610	You want to tell them about the pirate cab fare they're building in unlicensed sea taxis? Should we count the snowplows they used during the summer?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0274par0612	What's it to you at CHP City Hall? Defend your budget! You're a useless man!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0277par0613	Dear Private, please... Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0278par0615	Shall we set an example of the abduction of court audit reports from city councils?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0279par0616	He's been assigned!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0278par0617	You want us to count the friends, relatives, who've been insured by city companies? First, no one is going to lose their job. Are we going to promise -- now that you're making promises -- and then we're going to lay off thousands of people, and then we're going to talk about putting more and more into the municipal staff? (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Again, should we say that the vehicles, which were arranged in the squares, were hired for more and more and more prices? Here's a slice of the idea of management of the CHP mentality.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0280par0618	Tell us about YIMPAS, and tell us about the YIMPAS mentality.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0278par0619	Please don't let this mentality ever tell us about truth, law, justice.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0281par0620	What mentality do you have, what mindset? Tell me about Victory Airport.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0278par0621	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we approach all issues in our foreign policy agenda with a responsible, human-oriented, conscientious and primitive understanding, and we conduct our initiatives in a way that will strengthen regional and international peace, stability and sustainable development. We don't allow progress in matters that concern our country's security and well-being, but we do the quarterback and the pre-receiver. What are you doing in Syria? You were defending terrorists by saying that the SIHAs are killing people at random in Syria. Now, I'll tell you the reasons for all of this once again, and we've told you many times. We have proved to the world by our operations in Syria that the steps to meet security concerns can also be taken by the protection of human sensitivities.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0282par0622	Like you did in the chengal? Like you did with the losers?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0278par0623	We have prevented a corridor of terror from forming on Syrian soil. With three operations against terrorist organisations, more than 8,000 square kilometers of land was cleared of terror, 464,000 Syrian refugees returned to these areas. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Our presence in Idlib has prevented a human slaughter and a possible new wave of migration towards our country.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0283par0624	You're up to your neck in drugs, corruption, theft, walking around with murderers, selling virtues to the public! You don't even feel ashamed! You won't be ashamed!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0278par0625	Our fight against terrorism inland and abroad will continue continuously against all terrorist organisations, including the PKK/PYD-YPG and DEAS.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0283par0627	You're a thief and you're strong!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0284par0628	You're with the terrorists.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0285par0629	You're protecting DAEŞ.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0284par0630	You're with the gangs.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0286par0631	Tell me about ISIS.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0287par0632	We are determined to free 84 million of our citizens from this terror scourge, no matter who supports the PKK and its Syrian arm, the YPG, no matter who they get their support from.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0288par0634	How will these people get rid of you!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0289par0635	You're the comrades of the family!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0287par0636	In 2022, our proactive defence and security policy, which envisions eliminating threats beyond our borders, at its source, will continue to contribute simultaneously to stability in the region while guaranteeing national security and interests. Meanwhile, our efforts to find a political solution to the crisis in Syria continue to meet the expectations of the Syrian people.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0290par0638	Tell me about the budget, the budget! Never mind Syria, talk about the budget!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0291par0639	I thought you were going to pray, sir. What happened?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0290par0640	You're making a budget speech! Budget, budget!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0641	Such a final solution is both the success of our fight against terrorism in the field and the honorable, safe, and voluntary return of the refugees we have hosted. To this end, we are ready to support all outcome-oriented efforts and new openings that will include legitimate representatives of the Syrian people.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0293par0642	Mr. Secretary, 75 percent of the budget has melted, what do you call it?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0643	Sadly, we have seen even those who claim to have national spiritual values ask, "What are we doing in Libya? "
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0294par0644	Minister, don't worry about the budget, the budget, Libya, the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0645	I'll tell you about that.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0294par0646	What about the dollar, what about the euro, talk about it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0647	We have protected our country's rights and interests in the Eastern Mediterranean, and we have strengthened our country's hands further in terms of international naval law, with an agreement signed with Libya. In Libya, our support for the legitimate Government of the National Covenant, known by the United Nations, has changed the balance in the field, preventing the invasion of Tripoli and a new human tragedy. Our support opened the way for dialogue and political progress in Libya. In the coming days, elections are expected to be held at this moment of momentum. We'll continue our work within the framework of agreements signed by the legitimate government. We strongly supported Can Azerbaijan's civil war and his righteous cause, which he started with the right of self-defense.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0295par0650	Your only friend is the Taliban!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0651	So we ended the Armenian invasion that had been in Azerbaijan territory for nearly thirty years. In Caucasus, Azerbaijan's use of self-defense to free his territory from occupation provided a suitable environment to work for lasting peace and stability in this region years later. The war budget, as you say, is there a peacekeeping budget? We see the peaceful consequences of this together from recent developments with Armenia. The first meeting of the regional collaborative platform in the 3+3 format we proposed with Azerbaijan for the establishment of permanent peace and stability in South Caucasus was held last week. Turkey is sincere not only in Turkey-Ermenistan relations, but in its desire for normalisation for the entire region. Of course, such a process will be carried out with Azerbaijan, as it has been so far, depending on the precautions and actions that Armenia will take. For the establishment of sustainable peace, peace and prosperity in the Caucasus, it will continue to be our sincere desire. In the Eastern Mediterranean, we have defended and defended the rights of our country and of the Turkish Cypriots. We advocate a two-state solution on the basis of sovereign equality for a fair, lasting, sustainable solution to ensure the legitimate rights and security of the Turkish Cypriot Republic and the Turkish Cypriot people. The government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which has full authority and control over the Marasian region, believes it is the only authority to decide the future of the region, and we support the initiatives to bring Maras back to life. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Once again, I would like to stress that Turkey will not make the slightest concession to its interests in Cyprus, the Aegean, or the hydrocarbon resources in the Eastern Mediterranean. With research and drilling ships, we strengthen our presence in the field within the scope of the activities of our Armed Forces with an effective degree. The eastern Mediterranean is a national issue for us. We have no eyes for anyone, and we have no right to anyone. (EC PARTY) We will never allow any foreign country, company or ship to operate without permission in our naval areas, as before, nor will we ever again. (AK PARTY) The actions that Greece and the Greek Cypriots, especially spoiled by the European Union, are trying to take against our country and the Turkish Cypriots, will not be tolerated. We have strong ties with the Gulf countries from our past and common values. At times, we argue that differences of opinion can be resolved through dialogue and regular contact, stressing that we are ready to deal with positive and sincere steps in this direction. Our recent high-level contacts with the region's countries and the established communication channels are a sign of this attitude. Talks with Egypt continue to normalize relations with Egypt. As with all other countries, we will never compromise the dignity of our state, which will act in the same way as our nation's rights and interests. We maintain our commitment to strengthen our co-operation within the positive agenda of the European Union and to improve our relations in a way that is based on the membership perspective. We are no longer ignoring the growing attitude of the European Union from Turkey, as opposed to the EU's own explanations of putting the difficult period behind us in relations. As they say, we're not ignoring Turkey's attitude away from the European Union. It's good for them to look in the mirror. We're not ignoring the European Union's increasingly distant stances from Turkey, and I'd like to express that here from the People's Assembly. (APPLAUSE) In the coming period, we believe that he will adopt a more positive, constructive, and righteous attitude, which will benefit everyone, both sides. On the other hand, we stress that our efforts towards stability and development of the Balkans should result in the EU membership of all Balkan countries and our country. We care about working together in a wide range of solutions and cooperation on the basis of mutual respect and benefit with the United States. Again, we find it difficult to understand that a country like the United States is so involved with terrorist organizations and its double standard approach to security. In this framework, we expect the United States to act in harmony with the spirit of alliance in all matters and trials of our common agenda, particularly the fight against terrorism. Again, I'd like to deliver this message from the People's Assembly. In the Israeli-Palestian conflict, on the basis of the 1967 borders, we will continue to support and strive for a solution through the establishment of an independent Palestinian state, whose capital is Jerusalem. The end of this conflict that fuels instability in our region, threatening peace and security, will benefit all countries of the region, including Israel. We provide all kinds of support for peace and stability in Afghanistan. Our efforts continue after the Taliban take over the country. We are now the only NATO country to have an embassy open in Kabul. To support the peace process, we envisioned a conference in Istanbul. On the one hand, we follow a gradual policy of engagement with the provisional government, and on the other hand, we continue to help the Afghan people. From Somalia to Venezuela, from Philippines to Ukraine, we contribute to peace and stability in different geographys. Our institutions, such as TİKA, Turks and Associations abroad, the Maarif Foundation and the Yunus Emre Institute, are also at heart, as we are on the ground and on the table all over the world. On the other hand, our country's flag carrier, Turkish Airlines, was registered as one of the world's seven most perfect airlines in the rating of the World Class by one of the world's largest international airlines, APEX. Turkey's Airlines, which flew 372 aircraft fleets to the most countries in the world, is one of the concrete manifestations of our country's active foreign policy approach with a broad transportation network. Under the leadership of our president, we have a rational approach in foreign policy that combines the soft power of our country with the elements of harsh power. By contributing constructively to all global matters, the world is greater than 5. We are trying to dominate a more equitable understanding of the world that we express in its slogan. From now on, we will continue to implement human-oriented policies in our region and in the world, which our ancestors, our history, our civilization, have pointed to us. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Turkey's greatest power is the growing human presence. The way to transform our young population into our advantage is through education. With that understanding, we continue our efforts to ensure that the most basic public service education services are widespread and accessible. We've completed our preparations for the implementation of the need for regulation, which arises in terms of defining teaching as a career career, providing additional financial and social rights to our teachers. In a short time, the rights of our teachers will be secured under better conditions, with the will of our great Parliament to pass law on this matter. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we increase the amount of resources we have from the budget in 2022 to more active roles in every area, equal use of rights, opportunities and resources in all areas of social life, to about $943m. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, we raise the allowance for the youth programme to 876 million in order for young people to grow up with strong life skills, human and national values, and to actively participate in social life and decision-making mechanisms. In the budget, we set aside a separate program called the strengthening of women, and with additional legislation, we reveal our will to protect our women from all kinds of violence, and the opposition does not even refer to that development. We sign the Paris Agreement, we present a clear and strong will in Glasgow to fight climate change, and there is no sound from those who raise hell on the grounds of the tree. The Animal Rights Act is inclusive, we're in effect, our Ministry of Interior is taking over animal protective services, and the opposition is silent again.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0296par0663	We went out together.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0297par0664	Go, for God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0665	I thought you were animal lovers. I thought you were an environmentalist. I thought you were fighting for our women.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0296par0666	We passed the law together; you don't know we passed the law together.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0667	I thought you said youth was going away. I thought you said the Z belt was unclaimed.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0298par0669	Didn't we break the law together?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0296par0670	We passed the law together. Ignorant!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0292par0671	We've explained to you here what we're going to do about the resources we've raised on these issues in the budget, in one ear, out the other, as usual.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0296par0672	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0299par0673	You don't know, you don't know.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0300par0674	We make the law together, he talks.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0301par0675	We don't know where your sensors are, where your watches are set. For some reason, you can't keep up with Turkey's frequency.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0300par0676	Why don't you ask your group?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0302par0677	Yeah, listen, you're the VP of Groups.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0300par0678	He's passed the Animal Rights Act, the opposition is silent (!) The Clave passed it together, five parties passed it together.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0303par0679	Even if you turn your back on the facts of Turkey and ignore them, we will continue our development journey with our young men, our women, all our generations, including the Z belt, and we will continue to walk side by side with them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We aim to introduce our young people to innovation, to technology, to explore their abilities, and we aim to establish 100 experimental technology workshops in 81 counties by the end of 2022. Our artificial intelligence, large data, cybersecurity, space and aviation technologies and defence industry infrastructure will rise in the hands of our young people. We are implementing the National Youth Employment Strategy and Action Plan, consisting of 13 concrete targets and 109 measures to support young employment. However, we will also implement a system that allows our young ones to gain professional experience, to have knowledge of the labour market and work life, and to easily apply for internship programmes. In 2023, we aim to reduce the youth unemployment rate to 17.8 per cent, raise the young labour force to 46 per cent. In order to increase young employment, 95 projects will be supported by about 612 lira, while 60,000 young people will be included in employment, as soon as 170 factories are fully operational. For our Ministry of Youth and Sports, the youth budget is in the youth budget. We called our budget in the name of our budget, and we will decide again what to spend on projects that weigh down our activities in 2022. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the positive macroeconomic indicators we have during budget talks have been criticised for ignoring our industrial production performance, export records, improved current balance and strong growth figures. In commenting on this issue, the impacts of the global economy should also be taken into account, measures against negative trends, and positive indicators that we have. Although our tourism revenues have been affected by the epidemic and energy prices are rising, our current transactions have improved positively. For the past October, the current has been overdrawn for the past three months, and our annual current deficit is down to $15 billion. At the end of the year, we're also predicting a much lower current account. Our country has created an important success story by providing a low rate description of high growth. Our exports set a new record every month, and our exports, which reached 20 billion dollars per month, once exceeded 80 per cent of the imports that went below 60 per cent. As of October, our employment is over 29.5 million and our internal power is over 33 million. Compared to February 2020, employment growth reached 2 million, while the increase in industrial employment peaked at first with 746k. With these results, our unemployment rate fell to 11.2 per cent in October. The budget deficit has over 10 per cent in the world, while we have a 3.5 per cent budget deficit in 2020. When we look at the budget results in October, we see that our budget deficit is 46.5 billion dollars in the ten-month period. So by the end of the year, hopefully we'll have a budget deficit under 3.5 percent of the program target. In 2020, we can also count many indicators. We've been repeating these indicators again in the budget process, in the Plan and Budget Commission, and in the General Assembly for two months, actually, we are, and these are in the minutes. Now, let's just ignore these developments, and you don't want us to say any of this. Of course we're going to discuss the fluctuation in the ribbon and the steep price hikes, but we're going to keep telling them what we're doing. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, it's a fact that global vulnerability in the economy leads to unproportionate price hikes from energy products to logistics, from raw materials to mandatory consumption products. We've been affected by these global fluctuations and price hikes, especially through industrial production inputs, including energy and intermediary. I want to remind you once again that inflation is once again the first agenda of the world, and in many countries there are the highest inflation rates of the last 30 to 40 years. See, the United States has the highest inflation of the last 39 years, and Germany has the highest inflation of the last 29 years. Inflation data released in Spain also peaked at the top of the last 30 years, due to increased food and fuel prices. We will have basic macroeconomic priorities to continue the fight against inflation, to increase domestic savings, to build the growth structure from private investment, to create new investment tools with alternative financing methods, to implement applications to reduce the transfer of money, and to strengthen financial stability. No one has any doubt that in the process, we will continue to put all our actions in full harmony with the free market economy and the principle of financial freedom. Our country will continue to build confidence in the global economy as a fully integrated country, with its long-standing and prestigious past. There's no way that an application against financial freedom is on our agenda, and it's not going to be on our agenda. In this direction, we will apply our policies in all sectors to increase the value of production, reduce dependence on imports and strengthen human capital. In this context, we'll continue to implement the technology-oriented industrial move program. As part of the project-based incentive system, we will continue to provide sectoral support, including renewable energy, petrochemistry, health, transport, defence, space and aviation technologies. We're going to prioritize SMEs who export to the Credit Guarantee Fund and produce to reduce our dependence on imports. Turkish EXIMBANK, Development Bank funding opportunities will be used to improve our foreign trade balance, finance investment projects and provide export financing for companies, particularly the SMEs.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0304par0689	The story's over, come on, good luck.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0305par0690	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0303par0691	Participation will be carried out by implementing financial arrangements and boosting shares in the financial system. With an economic preference to encourage investments, increase production, strengthen employment and encourage exports, we will raise Turkey on these four legs. Troubles will be temporary, gains will be constructive, and structural gains will be permanent. We explain our export records, our strong growth numbers, our growing employment, as if it were just numbers, but we didn't come here easily. In each corner, we paid the price for a more democratic Turkey, which governs peace and peace, which guides progress in its region. We've dealt with embargos, impositions in diplomacy. We've fought coupters, terrorists, guardians. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0306par0695	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0303par0696	We've come to the point where we're faced with human crises, refugee raids, right next to our borders. We've faced threats of sanctions against our country's reality, our full independent policies. From our ministers to our President of Defense Industries, they added many people to name-calling lists, and we went through them. It wasn't enough, they set us up with some kind of terrorist organization, the shooters they were feeding and raising. No matter what they do, we have broken all the games that our nation has trusted us with, and we have come to this day by moving forward with Turkey. (AK PARTY) Not enough, they blew winds of distortion and smearing from the inside and the outside; they tried to keep us within the political and economic boundaries that were in someone's best interest. As we stand against all attempts to tie Turkey's hands, we stand against them and we stand against them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0306par0699	Please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0303par0700	With our choice of investment, employment, production, exports and growth, we've come up with a path that is in line with our own facts. We'll put this period of fluctuation behind us during the transition, continue our journey of development without need of anyone. And with the 2022 budget, we're going to sit on stronger foundations, with a more stable and more resilient economic structure, and we're going to bring our country's prosperity to its rightful place. Mr. President, as a result of today's General Assembly talks on the budget of 2022, I have tried to answer as much as possible, including the central management budget and general economic issues, as well as the time set aside for myself. With these thoughts, I wish that our offer of 2022 Central Management Budget Law and 2020 Central Management Law would once again be good for our country and our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I give thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for the perspective, leadership and vision of the 2022 Central Management Budget Act and 2020 Central Management Law. (APPLAUSE) For the support and contributions of our Veteran Parliament's central management budget for 2022, I sincerely thank all of our deputies, including the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission and members of the budget, our stenographers, our administrative and support staff, all of our Parliament staff, our Minister of Strategy and Budget, our Treasury and Finance, and all of our other ministries, the president and employees of all concerned institutions, and all of the employees who follow the budget process. (AK PARTY) I especially thank our ministers, the MPs who supported us under the roof of the Cumhur Alliance, and Mr. Gardenli. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Congratulations on your new year, and I wish you 2022 to be in good health, peace, and happiness. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0307par0709	Thank you. Dear friends, the second speaker on behalf of himself now belongs to Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman and Sakarya MP Mr. Engin Özkoc. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch. [[CHP voices and applause from the ranks of the Republican Party; applause from the ranks of the Party]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0714	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, if a speaker is speaking from the bench, if there is a noise in the parliament, a fight in the Assembly General Assembly, I'm taking a break from that; I'm taking five minutes, three minutes off. The speaker says, "The speaker will take his place with that title, and then he will do what needs to be done behind the bench, and the transactions will continue here." However, the Speaker sat down the speaker here, and the speaker is not a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The speaker can't come from here -- I remind him as a member of parliament -- and try to lecture the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the stand, waving his hand and arm; this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Everyone will know their place, this is not a palace, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0307par0717	Mr. Ozkoch, I'll defend myself, don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0718	You're always saying I'm high. I don't care about your arrogance! We're looking at people's heads, you've put their heads down. You're going to speak to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, at least see what's being said in this Parliament, learn a lesson in merit. All the animal rights groups came together, signed the gold, and we made this decision together. Now, you don't know, but you have an opinion. You say: "They have opposed animal rights here. I mean, I don't know who to complain to, I'll complain to the animals, and they'll get mad at you. Hey, buddy, what's it to you at City Hall? Are you Tefik Göksu or is this the city council? (CHEERING) Look at the adjective of where you are. Oh, there's a scar between us. If Istanbul goes, Turkey goes. You said, Istanbul goes, Adana goes, Mersin goes, Antalya goes, and Turkey comes with the National Alliance. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD Party rows]] Mr. Elitaş, Deputy President of the Precious Group, you're talking about rates, a AKP fellow in my district said: "We've raised our votes 100 per cent in the neighborhood." I said, "How many votes did you have?" He said, "We had 1." You raise 100 percent, you get two votes, okay? The odds don't always show the real numbers in the economy. It's not about studying economics. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, I'll tell you all about it in proportions; how it is, what it isn't. For example, I give you a rate: exports, exports, exports. You import 70 percent of the goods you export. You mean you can't take this stand without knowing about it? My dear friends, Engin Altay, a year ago the nation said that they needed dry bread. A AKP MP said that if they eat dry bread, they don't go hungry. Now we've raised the minimum wage by 50 percent; they say it's never been seen in history. I'll tell you: 99% in 95...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0309par0724	Inflation is 120 percent.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0725	Yeah, look at the numbers. ... has been made 102 per cent in 96, 199 per cent in 97...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0309par0727	What was the inflation?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0728	... 47 per cent in 98, 103 per cent in 99.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0310par0729	What's the inflation?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0730	Don't you ever look at numbers? Don't you have any knowledge of economics?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0311par0732	Inflation was three or three digits, then.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0733	The main reason the economy was broken was insecurity of Turkey's power. Why is there no trust, I have to tell you so fast, my time is limited. First, you gave the BMC (BMC) land price of the BMC (BMC) for the price of the land of the U.N.C. (AS/TK) at first, 751 million, the price of the land of the U.N.C. (AS/TK) at $360 million in that time. This qualified crook -- I've told you many times from here -- said I went to the palace, and to Qatar. This qualified grifter bought $360 million and sold the half price to Qatar for $300 million. Later, he sold 25 per cent to Talip Ozturk, Recep Erdoğan's village for $150m. Did you get $90 million in your pocket in two months? And then what did we do to this man? We gave this man 2 million square metres of land in the Blackwater district of Sakarya, first to this Ethem Sandzak, free of charge. [[From the CHP rows, let there be noise!]] We gave 60 million in infrastructure, $1.4 billion in incentives. And then we gave this Ethhem Sandzak to this $3 billion ALTAY tank contract. This is Ethem Sandzak, who, by the way, has not been able to build a factory or build a tank in three years. You know what, guys? Ethhem Sandzak, a qualified conman who sold his shares for $480 million and made $330 million in profits, went missing. Allah will question you about it in the world and in the Hereafter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If you're talking about a five-alarm gang, I'll give you a rate, Mr. Group Vice President. Genghis Holdings received a bid of $2242 billion - $309 billion that day, $676 billion today. Colin received $40.4 billion in tenders - $296 billion that day, $650 billion today. You don't have one. They said, look at the ratios, look at the ratios. Kalyon received a $36.6 billion bid - $268 billion that day, $590 billion today. Now, I say let's leave it at that, weather talk. What you're saying is that the world is bigger than five, smaller than the world. Is it greater than 83 million? They're scamming Turkey, putting millions of dollars in their pockets, and you're standing in front of people and giving them $1,400. You're showing off here. Woe to you! Woe to you! [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, now, let me tell you something else. So, what happened to this government? Sezgin Baran won't be afraid; he's a money launderer.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0312par0741	Boss, boss...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0742	$134 million laundered money Sezgin Baran won't be afraid. America reported it immediately; this man is guilty. Three, four, eight. Peace Criminal Courts seized property, curfew was immediately imposed, a month later, someone pressed the button, Prosecutor İrfan Fidan, Deputy Prosecutor Hasan Yilmaz removed their assets. They also lifted the ban on leaving the country, which was on March 4th, the night before he left the country, he went to the Ministry of the Interior's office, met with him, the next day he went abroad, and immediately decided not to take possession of his property, and that was a money launderer by MASAK. Now, I asked the Home Secretary about that. Friends, really be careful, do you know what Sezgin said about Baran?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0313par0744	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0745	Thank you. We've made such a decision with all the state's institutions that we've gone so far into the matter that we've exposed America, and we've gotten out of it, he says. So we kidnapped Sezgin Baran Korkmaz with all the units of the state, he says. Now, here, I'm not saying that, here are the records, here are the records. Sezgin Baran Korkmaz has been kidnapped, and a Minister of Justice has come out, and we are the courts. We are not such courts, but there is justice in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0314par0747	I don't have any!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0748	Can't a Home Secretary be questioned about this? No, he wasn't questioned. Friends, I say more terrible: 4.9 tons of cocaine, 4.9 tons of cocaine in Colombia, will come to the port of Mersin.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0315par0750	Mr. Ozkoch, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0751	I asked the Home Secretary if this document from Colombia was true. That's right. He said. Well, it's been a year and a half, and there's container numbers here, so the container numbers where the cocaine was loaded, who was going to pick it up from Mersin, who was going to pick up this drug lord right away, and why didn't you catch him, Home Secretary, why didn't you? (CHEERING) These are terrible things. You know why? Not because he went arm in arm with them, arm in arm with the mob, arm in arm with the drug lords. Now, does anyone trust this power? Do they trust this power and come and invest it here? They won't. Guys, do you know who this is, who this is? This is the leader of an Al Qaeda subsidiary.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0315par0754	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0308par0755	This man is wanted in the world. The Home Secretary gave this man the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. Now I'm asking: how many Al Qaeda militants, how many El Nusra militants, how many Afghan agents did you go and give citizenship to the Republic of Turkey? Are you the Home Secretary of this nation, betraying this nation? You've got to come out and explain this, you've got to explain. My dear friends, you know what hurts me the most, I'll tell you once again before all of you: That's what conscience is, that's what it is to be afraid of God. Now, we've got July 15th action, we've got martyrs, and we've got cops who've been killed in Beşiktas. At the request of Mr. Bakili Yıldırım, 330 million liras were collected.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0316par0758	You call the coup a coup, you call the coup a coup!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0317par0759	You say what's on your mind, you say the coup!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0318par0760	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0319par0761	Friends, this power sits on martyr money, doesn't give its martyrs their money, that's what hurts the most. (HPP) This power has been established against the martyr who is not afraid of God. Now, what are we gonna do? Here comes the reign of those who, along with the members of the National Alliance, take their homeland and their nation, who fear God, who do not take the rights, who are loyal to the revolutions of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who say, peace in the land, peace in the land, peace in the land, with our young men, workers... whether you like it or not.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0318par0765	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0319par0766	Incoming!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0320par0768	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0318par0769	Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0320par0770	Mr. President, I'd like to speak for our group.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0318par0772	Wait a minute, guys, I'm listening to the Deputy Director of the Group. Guys, please shut up. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0321par0775	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, our group, our President, our Vice President, has been insulted, more than enough, if you'll allow me to answer him.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0322par0776	No insults, no insults.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0323par0777	He didn't insult me.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0324par0778	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0325par0780	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the end of a very valuable working calendar. First of all, there's this precious process of contributing, working...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0326par0781	Tell me about Sezgin Baran Korkmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0325par0782	I want to thank all of our deputies for their work, other than screaming. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In part of his speech, Mr. Group Vice President, he insisted on saying, "Well, the representative of the palace, he has made a lot of accusations about the palace." Friends, what you call a house of people is what you call a house.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0327par0786	People's house, slum.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0328par0787	What house?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0325par0788	It's the name of the office used for this nation by a general president who's been elected 53 percent, who's been in charge of the country for 20 years. There's a library in that palace, there's a mosque in that palace, there's offices...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0329par0789	People are in the line of bread.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0325par0790	Parties change and change over time; if you see, whoever has the will of this nation will use it. Now update yourselves, for twenty years you have had nothing to say, saying 'Saray. You have not made 25 percent, you will not be able to do 26 percent.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0329par0792	Keep 150 students in there and let's see!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0325par0793	Dear friends, that's what you said to Adnan Menderes, that's what you said to Ozal. You said that you were a man of the court. If you don't call Erdogan, you'll remember that the best sign of our guidance is your accusation.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0329par0794	1,500 lira pension!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0325par0795	Dear friends, you insisted that our Vice President had made a hand move on our Speaker; we were all here; of course, there was an unfortunate incident, which we didn't like, but everyone saw that our Vice President did not do such a thing.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0330par0796	Lies!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0329par0797	What about the bread? They can't find the dry bread.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0325par0798	But in this General Assembly, I leave it to you, Mr. President, who came to mind when it was said in front of this nation, the cursive and the hand movement. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices and applause; noise from CHP rows and TIP MPs]] We've been responding for days to criticism of our Home Office... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0331par0803	Mr. Turan, of course, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0332par0804	You're lying.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0333par0805	Mr. President, we can't hear.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0334par0806	We've responded to your claim about our Home Office for days, and we've responded to your claim about martyrs for days. What more do we have to do? We've shown it, we've proven it, we've told it, but if you don't hear it, you can tell it, but we've got nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0335par0807	Tell me about the SBK!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0336par0808	You're lying!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0334par0809	Dear friends, you've always yelled, you're shouting again. If you raise your voice, it doesn't make you right, your voice is not proportional to what you say. It's a form of identity, it's an adaptive, it's a culture of style, but we've seen that you don't have that style again.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0335par0810	Tell me about Sezgin Baran Korkmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0337par0811	You're defending the five-alarm gang?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0338par0812	You're dirty, enough! That's it, shut up! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0337par0813	You're defending the five-alarm gang?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0338par0814	How rude of you! Listen to me like a human being.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0339par0815	Dear friends, you will believe your word, not your voice.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0340par0816	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0341par0817	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0339par0818	You'll see the Cumhur Alliance, which has been budgeting for 20 years in the new era...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0340par0819	Let the Engin Özkoch answer...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0341par0820	What do you mean he's talking? We promised him.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0342par0821	Mr. Agha, we don't want to listen to you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0343par0822	He's going to make the first budget, and he's going to be budgeting for a lot longer.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0341par0825	Mr. Turan, please, let's finish.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0343par0826	I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0341par0828	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0344par0829	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0341par0830	Mr. Ozkoch...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0344par0831	Mr. President, you're lying, you're talking. He's taunting me directly. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0345par0832	No teasing, Mr. President, no teasing. He just answered.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0341par0833	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A new pick-me-up.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0346par0836	My dear friends, whatever we promise, we stand by it, whatever we promise, okay? I'm looking at people who don't stick up for their word. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, are you people talking about your will? Well, aren't you the one who fired the elected Prime Minister? What nation will you speak of?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0347par0840	Shut up! Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0346par0841	Are you people talking about your will? Aren't you the one who fired elected mayors of the city, which nation's will? [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Are you talking about the truth? Why don't you do what you have to do to a Home Secretary who's standing behind a coke dealer who hasn't caught him, why are you standing behind him? [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] So I say from here: The People's Alliance and CHP have no understanding to take it from you, and their will is sufficient for them. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Once again, it's coming! Incoming!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0348par0849	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0349par0850	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0348par0851	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0350par0852	Mr. President, we've responded to these, he's been coming for 20 years. We'll keep waiting for what he says.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0351par0854	There's theft, corruption, prostitution!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0348par0855	I can't hear you guys. Congressmans, the year 2022...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0352par0857	Mr. Master... Mr. Master's request to speak...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0348par0859	He may want to make a statement, Mr. Special, but I'm looking at it, he's not here. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0353par0861	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, what's the point now? On behalf of the government, Mr. Oktay has taken his word, hasn't he? He had been given a good opportunity to make an assessment of the issues discussed here during the day, to respond to our claims, but Mr. Oktay did not take any of these opportunities; he did not take any of these opportunities; he did, in my view, very rude to the Parliament, with the prearranged texts in front of him today, by enforcing the issues that were not on the agenda.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0354par0863	We're gonna ask you!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0353par0864	Because we expect him to answer our assessments, our questions, and our claims. If it's wrong, let him say it's wrong. Now, you see, it's like Mr. Oktay never lives in Turkey. Let alone Turkey, the world knows what is happening in Turkey right now, Mr. Oktay has discussed some issues as if he were living in another universe. We're talking about the economy of Turkey, we're talking about the budget here.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0355par0866	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0353par0867	It's like Turkey isn't having the biggest courtship crisis in the history of Turkey... and it's not over, but look, this crisis has begun and it's still a crisis. I mean, isn't that something you talk about in a time when the economy is discussed in budget talks, or inflation at all? Turkey is running towards the world's highest inflation, Mr. President, are these trivial matters? Turkey is facing serious poverty, are these trivial matters? There's a vice president who never talks about these things. Now, what's he talking about? He says there's an energy crisis in the world, energy prices have gone up. Look, don't tell us one or two things. I told you about the inflation in the world. Inflation in the world...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0355par0868	Mr. Master, please let's finish.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0353par0869	Mr. President, this is...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0355par0870	. I'll give it to you on the stand if you've got any hard feelings.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0353par0871	It's not a tease.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0355par0872	Then what is it?
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0353par0873	Our final evaluations...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0355par0874	There's no such thing as the final assessment. I gave you my word according to 60. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0353par0875	Mr. President, for 12 days you've been like this...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0355par0876	Okay, I get it, but please... I've promised for 60. It's been a minute, two minutes, I'll give it to you. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0356par0879	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0357par0880	Let's vote, let's vote.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0358par0881	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0359par0882	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0360par0883	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0361par0884	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0362par0885	Let me finish, let me finish.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0361par0886	Mr. Master, please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0362par0887	But let me finish my sentence.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0361par0888	No, not for the 3rd time. If you want, if there's teasing, but let's talk, if there is, I'll appreciate it. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0362par0889	Mr. President, here's the thing: in Turkey, look...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0363par0890	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0364par0891	Mr. President... OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0365par0897	Members of parliament, the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law and the 2020-Year Central Management Accounting Law Proposal have been completed.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0366par0899	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0364par0900	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0365par0901	Now we're going to vote on the proposals of the law.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0366par0902	Yeah, well, look at you, all these people, demanding promises.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0365par0903	Proposals are subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision by the General Assembly on the way to open voting.
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0366par0904	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-17sit04spe0365par0905	I submit to your votes that the open vote of bids should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, we begin the open vote of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2022. I'll give you five minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards who have not been able to get into the system to the presidential office during the time they've been given a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal for 2022 2022: ▪ Number of votes used: 524 [[x]] So the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 is accepted and legalized, and good luck. [[AK PARTY welcomes you from MHP rows]] We will now begin the open vote of the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. I'll give you another five minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the clear vote of the 2020-Year Center Management Final Accounting Law Proposal: Thus, the 2020 Central Management Act is accepted and legalized, and it's for the best. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Thus, the issues on our agenda are complete. On Tuesday, December 21, 2021, it is 15 p.m. to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
