tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. We're going on the agenda. According to our agenda, we will begin negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, Commission Reports 281 and 282 rows have been suppressed and distributed. Now, I promise Mr. Fuat Oktay to make a budget presentation for the administration. Here you are, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I salute you in the name of our President, Mr. President, and our government. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission concluded its 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal on November 26th, with its 2020 Central Management Computing Law Proposal. At the end of the 21-hour merger, which lasted two hundred and thirty-four hours in the Plan and Budget Commission, the Proposal of the Central Management Act of 2022 took its final form. I would like to thank the esteemed President and members of our Plan and Budget Commission once again, for their intensive work and contributions over the course of 38 days, to my fellow ministers, representatives of our public institutions, and to the members of the Commission, who have contributed to the successful process. As of today, we begin negotiations with the Parliamentary General Assembly of the 2022-Year Centre Management Budget Law and the 2020-Year Central Management Computing Law Proposal. I wish for the best of this year's budget talks, which we consider to be an account in front of our nation at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the establishment of national will. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are the budget of 2022, the budget of the EC PARTI governments, which was drafted after the transfer of to the presidential government system.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0003par0019	Mr. Oktay, just a minute. Guys, there's a lot of noise in the living room, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0004par0022	Our budgets have been used as effective instruments for all our country's achievements so far under the leadership of our President. The financial area under our budget discipline principle has been directed towards development, industry, transport, education and health investments, as well as areas for human and social development that include social services spending. Our struggle with the effects of the Covid-19 epidemic, which has cost more than 5 million people in the world, continues with our solid infrastructure rising on the basis of our previous 19 budgets. As well as the effects of a health crisis, the destruction created by Covid-19, as well as the global economic crisis, continues in many areas, especially economic, trade and tourism. The figures of global trade, employment and capital movement, as data continued to shrink, there was one thing we said: we as Turkey will not say where we were in the post-infected period, in production, innovation, in investment. By turning this global crisis into opportunity, by producing, by growing, by supporting every part of society, we said so and so. In 2021, we also prepared our budget to provide the necessary tools for the public, and throughout the year, all of our institutions have used their resources most effectively and efficiently. The most powerful political support for this process was jointly given by the AK PARTY, the National Movement Party and the Major Unity Party as the Cumhur Alliance. Many indicators show that despite the Covid-19 outbreak, Turkey has continued its course by strengthening its way, from growth rates to export records, from increasing industrial production to participation in the labor force. We have also implemented numerous investments in our budget, such as hospitals, highways, bridges, dams, drinking water and irrigation facilities, organised industrial areas, techno parks, energy and defence industry projects. We continue our new investments today without slowing down. In 2022, we prepared the budget with the vision of Turkey, which grew, developed, developed, despite any global impact, sanction and manipulation attempt. The 2022 Year Budget Law Proposal is based directly on the expectations of our nation and clearly shows the public services and spending allowances that are earmarked for funds. The offer, which has performance-based programme budget features, allows for easy measurement, monitoring and transparency of public service performance. Our budget offer of 67 strategic programmes, including regional development, employment, development of trade, youth, human rights, space and aviation, is the basis of a more prosperous Turkey target, which is consistent with our full independent economic route, which we have updated in accordance with the facts and needs of our country. In this direction, the 2022 budget is in a framework that will strengthen our move with a green development revolution in investment, production, employment and growth. Its green transformation, carbon neutral investments, and the transition to the green economy are particularly likely to speed up. The 2022 budget is the innovative and environmental budget of digital Turkey. Our budget appeals to both the labor of our workers, to our employers, to our farmers, to our technology entrepreneurs, to our engineers, to our young, to our old, to his pension, to his employees, to our nation. We will further strengthen our social structure with the budget of 2022, which includes special programmes such as strengthening women, protecting children, joining the disabled in social life and strengthening the family. We will continue to maintain the peace of our country, the unity of our nation, the unity of our nation, and the international reputation of our state. We will continue to implement sound policies from health to education, agriculture, industry to economics and social benefits one by one on the basis of our budget. Mr. President, in my presentation on the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020-Year Central Management Computing Law Proposal, I will also share detailed data on the entire budget, as well as on the issues that have been frequented during talks in the Plan and Budget Commission. In this scope, I will complete my discussion of developments in the global economy, our outlook in Turkey's economy, our basic actions, economic support for the Covid-19 epidemic, the basic policies and budget forecasts in the medium-term programme, the 2020 Central Management Computation Act, and the budget forecast for 2021 under the budget for 2022, and the budget for central management budgets following the basic features of the 2022 budget. Mr. President, while the negative effects of the global Covid-19 outbreak, which began in 2020, have been largely eliminated by the end of 2021, the world economy has entered the next year with uncertainties that cannot be ignored. Virus variants around the world are a serious obstacle to permanent global recovery, making it necessary to fight the epidemic permanently. We have prepared our budget with a cautious approach in an environment where these risks and ambiguities continue. The measures against the epidemic have resulted in heavy economic destruction in the services sector, with unprecedented supply and demand shocks worldwide. In the second half of the year 2021, with the spread of vaccines worldwide, it was possible to open economies on a global level, even if they were gradual, and economic recovery began to be felt. The budget for 2021 is seen as a period of continued global recovery in 2021, although there are divisions between countries and country groups. According to the World Bank Global Economic Expectations Report in June, advanced economies are expected to grow by 5.4 per cent in 2021 and by 4 per cent in 2022. The developing economies are expected to grow by 6 per cent in 2021 and 4.7 per cent in 2022. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have partially recovered from the previous year in the second quarter of 2021 in global economies, especially with improved labour markets, but despite the trend of increased employment in 2021, unemployment rates are still above averages prior to the epidemic. Global inflation, the continuation of enlargementary monetary policies, is high in 2021, depending on higher developments in oil and commodity prices and the recovery of global demand. In this environment, the average producer inflation in developed economies will rise from 0.7 per cent in 2020 to 2.8 per cent in 2021, according to estimates of the International Fund of Money. In developing economies, the annual increase in average consumer prices, 5.1 per cent in 2020, is estimated to take place at 5.5 per cent in 2021. In 2020, Brent was placed on a 40-45-dollar band after his oil prices dropped to quite low levels due to the epidemic, and in 2021, the recovery of the global demand increased inoculation rates and increased by the impact of the Covid 19 and other factors has exceeded the 80-dollar threshold. As of today, oil prices, which we see are at 71 dollar levels, are still fluctuating. Today, the global challenges of supply chains, especially in the production of chips with energy price increases, feed supply problems and increase the risk of inflation, such as automotive and electronics. In global capital markets, there are fluctuations, courtship fluctuations, high global inflation, and new viral variants that have a certain level of risk in terms of the world's economy. Furthermore, increasing natural disasters could damage global recovery due to ongoing trade tensions in the United States-Chinese, uncontrollable power movements, migration movements, geopolitical conflicts, cyber attacks and climate change. With the changing global supply chain conditions, we have seen earlier that our country's geographical position advantage and flexible production opportunities offer Turkey an important opportunity to become one of the new production centers of the global economy, and we have seen the best of these opportunities, and now we have the results. Our country's strengthened macro policies and efforts towards the production economy contribute to the assessment of this opportunity. Mr. President, I'd like to address the progress and outlook of the Turkish economy following the global economic developments. Turkey's economy grew by 1.8 per cent in 2020, causing minimal damage to the Covid-19 epidemic, and among the G-20 countries was one of the two countries that managed to grow together with China, which continued in 2021. In the third quarter of 2021, the Turkish economy managed to grow 7.4 per cent year-on-year, thus growing by 11.7 per cent in the first nine months of the year, giving a very strong performance. In this period, a strong increase in exports and industrial production has contributed dramatically to growth. It is currently envisioned a high growth performance in the last quarter of the year, with increasing export support for dynamic and dynamic progress in economic activity. We expect to register a growth rate that can exceed 10 per cent in the entire year of 2021. This growth will be reflected in all sectors as prosperity, especially in our budgets, including workers, civil servants, tradesmen, farmers and pensioners. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the epidemic has had significant negative impacts on the labour market, as it has on the entire world. Many measures have been implemented in order to reduce these effects; there have been measures within the scope of flexibility of the conditions for short work grants, cash wage support, the ban on annulments and the support for normalisation. The impact of these measures and the recovery process has compensated for the losses caused by the outbreak in employment and participation in the labour force, particularly in the service sector. As of September 2021, the total level of employment is more than 1.7 million people, with seasonal data purged from seasonal effects, just ahead of the outbreak, February 2020. Agriculture, industry, construction and services are above its pre-infected level of employment in all sectors. For the first time in September, our employment is over 29 million and our workforce is over 33 million. Following the rapid recovery of economic activity observed in 2021, we predict positive reflections in labour markets, significant improvements in employment and employment rates, which were targeted in 2022. In addition to the recovery of economic activity, effective implementation of employment incentives will continue. In addition to accelerating integration into digitalisation and green transformation, structural steps will be taken in the areas of access and permanence of private policy groups such as women, young people and disabled groups, strengthening of human capital, active labour force programmes, job health and security, development of entrepreneurship. In 2022, the unemployment rate is expected to increase by 1 million 277,000 people based on the projections of the medium-term programme, while the unemployment rate is expected to fall to 12 per cent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, 2021 is a year in which our exporters have achieved great success in export performance because of their rapid adaptation to the transformative effects of the epidemic. With exports in November 2021 at $21.5 billion, exports reached the highest monthly export value. As of the end of November, our annual export took place at 221 billion dollars and set the republic's historic record. January 2021 -- the rate of exports in November increased by 6.8 points to 83.8 percent compared to last year's imports. Because of the rapidly increasing global energy prices, it is important that this success has been achieved despite the 65.9 per cent increase in our energy imports. In addition to energy, it appears that during the January-November period, it rose to 98.3%. With the rise in exports of goods and services, the current balance of transactions has increased in August and September. Although the epidemic has affected our tourism revenues, and energy prices have been rising recently, it's very valuable that we are providing high growth rates in this period with improvement in the current deficit. In 2020, our travel revenues fell to the level of $10 billion in the global epidemic, and in the year we're in, they have recorded recovery, and as of September, they've risen above the $17 billion OVP target. At the end of the year, we're predicting that this number will rise to over 20 billion dollars. In tourism revenues, we expect to reach $24 billion. We aim to continue the increase in travel revenues over the next year and to continue to contribute positively to current transactions from this channel. Turkey is in a pretty good position at this time in many other indicators, in addition to a successful recovery of the epidemic in the employment market, with high growth, increase in exports and improved current balance. Our country has low public debt and debt to the households according to similar countries. In the second quarter of 2021, the percentage of EU-defined general management debt is reduced to 38.4 per cent. In EU countries, the average is over 90 per cent. As of the end of the year, the EU will continue to be far below the country's averages, even if it is a little higher, depending on the risk of courtship. In 2020, the world's budget deficit averaged more than 10 per cent, while our country was at a very low level of 3.5 per cent. This is a record of our country's success in fiscal discipline. Our commitment to financial discipline continues in the same way as it did yesterday. Thus, the public finances will continue to be the most powerful anchor in the Turkish economy. In the year 2021, when the conditions of the epidemic are uncertain, we also continue to support our citizens, our tradesmen, our real sectors and all the areas that are needed, while keeping our budget deficit below 3.5 per cent, we focus on the sustainability of public finance indicators. Our banking sector also has a very healthy stance. The conversion rate of loans in the sector is 3.5 per cent manageable in October, and the banking sector's capital efficiency rate is well above the legal rate by 17.3 per cent. The central bank's reserves have recently exceeded $126, especially with an increase of over $35 billion. Mr. President, it's not the right approach to just consider certain indicators and ignore the rest of an economy, and it prevents us from seeing the whole. The recent action in the Kurs is wrong only to connect the framework of policy interest, and Turkey's success in growth, exports, current balance and fiscal discipline means ignoring. With the extraordinary conditions of the outbreak, we are going through a period in Turkey, where policy interest is still under inflation, not only in Turkey, but in many other countries. In many economies such as the United States, Germany, Britain, France, South Korea, Brazil, Indonesia, Malaysia, India, Hungary, Poland and Russia, negative policy interest is being applied. In addition, in times of high policy interest, the currencies can also be seen. Recent developments are required to address the fact that the dollar is getting stronger in the world, in terms of speculative and manipulative actions against our currency, and in terms of what increases our country's demand for foreign currency. There is a rise in the dollar against the other country's currencies, especially in the United States, with the prospect that the developed economies will take over the tightening programme. In fact, recently the euro/dollar parity has declined to 1.12 levels. With global impacts, we are aware of the growing economic vulnerability in our country, and we are the ones who will overcome it. Our currency is exposed to manipulative attacks during this period of high levels of growth and export growth that we have achieved in many indicators. Recently, courtship is not in line with the facts of the economy. These manipulation initiatives have an increasing cost to those who lead them as well as us, and this test is not sustainable for those who want to bring our country to its knees through the economy. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) His voice, applauds]] We will minimize our country's need for foreign currency and quickly build a much more resistant economic structure against these attacks, with our view of investment, employment, production and export priorities. In this direction, one by one, we are implementing projects that help reduce our country's intermediary imports and energy spending and support production and exports. In this way, the need for intermediary goods will be met with domestic production, providing domestic production of our country's important import pens, even adding them to our economy as new export pens. However, we are rapidly increasing our investments in increasing domestic and renewable energy sources, producing more and more efficient use. It is important for such investments to be able to live and for Turkey to produce more, interest is to support the investment climate. Our goal is to establish a fully independent economic structure, which our entire nation has benefited from, more productive, more employment, the added value. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We will make the stability, prosperity, development that the EC PARTY provides for Turkey sustainable. As our President put it, we now say that the world is greater than the economy. As we have dominated a more democratic structure in Turkey, leaving custody behind, we will also bring to our country an independent economy based on production and employment, just as we created a strong development infrastructure. The rise in foreign currency rates has led to a rise in some budget costs, while also affecting budget revenues in a positive way. Given the overall budget balance in this framework, the impact is limited and manageable. Despite all these developments, thanks to our success in economic growth and our firm stance in fiscal discipline, we will close this year with a budget deficit that we have revised to 3.5 per cent in the mid-term plan, while we have predicted a 4.3 per cent budget deficit in our budget in 2021. In the coming period, we will effectively and dynamically manage potential risks by not giving up financial discipline and growth goals. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, as they have been around the world lately, prices are going up at the overall level. Again, it would be appropriate to explain inflation with different dynamics instead of a single parameter. The issue must be dealt with with with the effects of the epidemic and the corruption of supply chains across the world. We're going through a period of global inflation, along with rising prices of commodity, energy and navlun around the world. We deal with inflation and the cost of life in every way, and we create and implement policy measures to make sure that our citizens are at least affected by their price increases. In order to protect our citizens from price hikes, we take on three-quarters of the cost in natural gas and half of electricity as government and state. Compared to other countries, we reflect a high rise in global energy prices to our citizens in at least one way or another. In the coming period, with the expansion of production areas both abroad and abroad, we will provide an increase in output and contribute to the development of prices on a healthier basis. The measures we've taken on the rise of inflation, the effective audit of unfair and outrageous price increases, and the minimal reflection of inflation to our citizens through the waiver of public resources, if necessary. We are determined to maintain our position and continue to protect our citizens from the effects of inflation. We will carry out all policy measures that will not crush our nation against inflation, including our employee, our officer, our minimum wage, our health staff, our teacher, our security forces, our tradesman and farmer, and ensure a permanent decline in inflation. Mr. President, the most important account we're going to give our nation under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is what we're doing and what we're going to do for the great and powerful Turkey. Praise be to God, we have a history of commerce, a past of action, and achievements that we're proud of for our nation, who work day and night as staffs. In addition to our 19-year investments in reforms and sustainable growth, we have a strong and large Turkish road map that we will continue today and tomorrow. All of this is a reflection of our inclusive and visionary policies, which monitor the needs and expectations of 84 million of our citizens. With the impacts of the Covid-19 epidemic, trade tensions and digital transformation among countries, we are particularly interested in areas such as production, technology, trade, education, health and agriculture. With our industrial infrastructure, our companies' production flexibility, our qualified human resources and our RD ecosystem, we're in the process of industrial production. We're expanding the Technology Focused Industrial Movement Program to produce groundbreaking technologies with domestic and national possibilities. As part of last year's Machine Sector Call, we've decided to support the 20 projects for $2 billion. In this context, many imported products, such as servo engines, CNC countertops, are now produced by domestic and national means. Turkey's Automobile Project, which is also the common dream of 84 million, is on its way. So far, an investment of $2.5 billion is complete, and at the end of the year, it is expected to reach $3.5 billion. The completion of machine systems at the lithium ion battery production plant, which is being built in Kayseri, again, is scheduled to be mass production in April 2022. When we think about the current global-level chip, magnesium and lithium supply crisis, it's clear how important these kinds of investments are based on domestic technology. I'd like to say with pride that we've risen from 10 digits to 41st place in the Global Innovation Index this year. In the last 19 years, local patent applications have increased by 20, and local patent registrations have increased by 30 times. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have been number one in Europe every year since 2011. In the application for domestic property, we moved to the 10th place, leaving behind countries such as Britain, Russia and the Netherlands. After Ankara and Bursa, we launched model factories in Izmir, Kayseri, Konya, Antalya, Mersin and Adana. Through COSGEB, we've transferred $1 billion,740 million from the beginning of the year to over 61,000 businesses. We also provided support for 90 projects on priority RD and innovation as part of compliance with the Green Covenant. We've prepared the Green OSB National Framework Chart, and we've funded about $300 million from the World Bank to be used to build the infrastructure needed for the transformation. We are also ambitious in the field of artificial intelligence, one of the defining elements of groundbreaking technologies. Our road map, the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, was published in August, and we continue to strengthen our artificial intelligence ecosystem. We've integrated almost all public services into e-government, and we've reached more than 2.7 billion entries since January. We support all the partners in the cyber security clusters to be fully dominated by Cyber Vatan, and we develop our cyber capacity day by day. We have implemented the National Space Programme, which includes Turkey's ten-year vision, strategy, goals and projects in space. Our membership in the International Federation of Space, the largest international space organization, was registered on October 25th. We've successfully launched our TKSAT 5A satellite into space this year. By reducing our defence industry to external dependence, we provide the needs of all our security units with Turkish Armed Forces with local and national resources at 80 per cent of the time. Self-defense and aviation exports in January-November 2021 occurred at $48.6 per kilogram. 228 different defence industries have been exported to 170 countries over the past decade. As of the end of the year, we aim to move our defense industry exports, which we will leave behind $3 billion, much further in 2022 and later. With increasing industrial production momentum, we are moving rapidly towards creating a strong production and logistical central alternative to the global, monocentral production network. We rely on our young people, our scientists, our universities, our researchers, our industrialists, our entrepreneurs, our SMEs, our workers and workers. By designing it, we will continue our journey with confidence by taking care of the labor of all workers and by increasing competitiveness in the industry. Transport and infrastructure are one of the most successful areas of our governments. We have opened to traffic, including the 443.4km-long North Marmara Highway, as well as the Küneli-Odayeri of Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Odeyeri-Kurtköy, Kurtköy-Aktı districts, and the last part this year. We opened all of them at the end of 2020, including the Kırşehir access road of Ankara-Niğde Highway, 330km long. We've also launched the Canal Istanbul Project, which will strengthen our country's economic and strategic power. We laid the foundation of the Sazlıdere Bridge, which passed over Istanbul. We have determined our vision of transmission and communication from 2021 to 2053, as green logistics, efficient mobileity and domestic, national digitalization. We've become a reliable production route, thanks to our increasingly divided road network and highway length, bridges connecting cities, via the viaducts, the iron silk road, our Turkey line, our air network reaching 127 countries, and our ports, the new address of large tonage ships. We'll continue to weigh in on our transportation, logistics and communications investments. In the past 19 years, we've had successes in the history of the republic that have exceeded everything that's been done, which is the key element of development. In energy, we prioritized our own resources of water, sun, wind, thermal and coal. By the end of October 2018, the electric board, with 87,000 megawatts, increased our power to 99,000 megawatts. In July 2018, we increased our power power plant number to 10,262, at the end of October 2021, which was 6,917. With the power of the renewable power of the power of the energy board today, our country is ranked fifth in Europe and 12th in the world. The renewable power of only 2020 is greater than the total renewable power of 24 European countries. We continue production in all units of Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant. The search for hydrocarbons to reduce external dependency in energy continues indefinitely with two seismic research and three deep sea drilling ships. After the conquest, Yavuz, and our legal drilling ships, we added our seventh-generation four-alarm drilling vessel, which was only five in the world, to our fleet. With our domestic and national energy investments, we will continue to strengthen Turkey. In tourism, we've expanded our country's tourism range with new destinations in many new areas, from health to cross-country tourism, croissant tourism to gastronomy tourism. The Presidential Symphony Orchestra, which was built to compete with its world counterparts, we launched the concert compound in Ankara. Despite the conditions of the epidemic, we completed the construction of the Ataturk Cultural Center in about two and a half years and gave the symbol to Istanbul as a cultural work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition to the harmony of the historical Beyoglu with architecture, we have completed and completed the Salami Mosque, which is among the number of projects in our country and in the world. (APPLAUSE) After eighty-six years, we opened Ayasofya, the relic of the conquest, to the resurrection of Ayasofya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The number of our works on the UNESCO World Heritage List has risen to 19 in 2021, with the addition of the Malatya Arslantepe Archeological Zone. We are also among the top five countries in the world in our cultural values recorded in UNESCO's Unsubstantiated Cultural Heritage List. We will continue to change our potential for culture, art and tourism into value and offer it to our citizens in the best possible way. With our great transformation in health, we saved our citizens from being tortured at hospital doors, delivered human services to everyone, and we continue to deliver them. We've made major health investments in many areas from city hospitals to the development of the health insurance system, from the transformation of medical equipment to the removal of infrastructure and lack of staff. From the very first day of the Covid-19 outbreak, we are a country that has been modeled in the fight against the epidemic from the capacity of our hospitals to the zeal of our health staff. In the fight against Covid, we conducted more than 90 per cent filament and contact surveillance by the village, neighborhood, house-to-house search. We've taken our teams and vaccines to the remotest parts of the country. In the implementation of chronic diseases and chronic disease management policies established by the World Health Organization, Norway and I went into literature as world leaders. (EA/DG) Thanks to our city hospitals, all diagnostic and treatment processes of our citizens can be completed within one campus. These hospitals, with patients, chaperones, and working comfort-oriented single- and double-sized rooms, large-scale break spaces, qualified intensive care units, major emergency rooms, high-tech intelligent buildings, are significantly supportive of the quality health care presentation. We will continue to provide the best health care for each of our citizens in 81 counties and all of our counties. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, from the first days of the outbreak in our country, we have quickly and effectively put important measures into place under the fight against Covid-19. Many important supports have been provided for our infected businesses, such as turnovers, rent and cash support, delays in tax and social security premium payments, VAT and rent-forcing reductions. The scope of short work grants for our citizens and working life has been extended, minimum wage support has been extended, has been provided to families in need with cash, medicine, medical supplies, and medical personnel payments. In addition, an arrangement has been made by the employer to prevent the employment contract from being annulled outside the rules of morality and goodwill, implementing quick return support, employment return support and additional employment incentives. In order to facilitate financing conditions, the credit guarantee fund limit has been raised from $25 billion to $50 billion, providing access to financing for businesses that are short of guarantees. The capital structures of public banks have been strengthened and offered credit opportunities. Companies who have fallen into default due to the epidemic have been given the opportunity to explain their criminal record and take the necessary steps to continue their business activities. In this scope, for those who use 27.3 billion for drug, medical supplies and health personnel to pay for short labor and free permits, 29.2 billion for SGK bonus support, 4.4 billion for additional subsidies and RSK bonus costs, 1.7 billion for cash, ciro loss and rent support grants, 9 billion for pensions, $900m for the recovery of pensions, $4.4 billion for central management budgets for needy families, $4.4 billion for additional subsidies and RSK premiums, 4 billion for financial costs, a total of $46 billion. Payments from the unemployment benefit fund and Social Aid and Solidarity Fund amounted to 68.8 billion dollars. We also allowed our businesses to postpone taxes and SGK bonus payments at $70.2 billion. Adding the credit sizes of all these pens, which have been postponed and used, the measures we've explained as part of the fight against the epidemic have reached $717.8 billion. At the end of 2021, total support is expected to reach $733.1 billion. As part of the fight against the epidemic, we continue to stand by our citizens and businesses using our resources inside and out of the budget. Recently, Mr. President has shared two new support packages with the public. We're moving the Support Package to Our Small and Medium Businesses. With this incentive that we provide financing for our employers, we will be able to use a loan guaranteeed to each employee of our employees, who have an additional job or a full-time employment fund, in the event that they have a full-time employment grant for their employees. The interest on the loans they used under KGF guarantees will be covered by the Unemployment Insurance Fund for 12 months, which means $1.341 per month support for an employee. Our other support package is the Immalata Daya Importal Support Programme. With this program, our goal is to increase the share of medium-high and high-tech production in an integrated way to international markets. As part of the programme, we will also support the production of intermediaries and raw materials that are critical for medium-high and high-tech sectors. This will allow the minimum six months to be used for a maximum of 120 months, including the maximum twenty-four months of non-payment period. The upper bail limit for the useful COBI is 35 million liras, and the bail rate is 90 per cent. For non-COBI users, the top bail limit is 85 percent with 250 million liras. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were involved in a medium-term programme published last September, with the basic policies of the 2022-2024 period, principles, aims and indicators of economic sizes. The medium-term programme and the medium-term fiscal plan have been merged into one document under the αOVP, in order to simplify the budget process and ensure public attention to the only basic document. With the medium-term program, we aim to ensure a sustainable, high, inclusive growth environment, where the current deficit is gradually reduced in terms of macroeconomic stability in the process of recovery after the outbreak. The changes in global supply chains during this period will be supported by sectors with high competitiveness, production and employment potential in the international arena, considering trends such as digital and green transformations. In this way, it is intended to increase the share of global trade and ensure permanent and sustainable improvement in the balance of current transactions. The goal, on the other hand, is to increase employment rate with structural reforms aimed at improving labour efficiency and skill harmony, strengthening the human resource, increasing employmentability, and a qualified growth composition. Structural policies will be implemented during the programme, which will boost competition and efficiency in the markets of goods and services, with the strong co-direction of money and finance policies. In the coming period, the access to the loan is more likely to improve investments by making it easier. With policy measures taken, we predict that our economy will grow by 5% in 2022. Despite developments at global and national levels, foreign currency is dry and prices are general, our determination to fight foreign currency stability and inflation remains. During the programme, we will have basic macroeconomic priorities to continue the fight against inflation, to increase domestic savings, to create the growth structure from private investments, and to implement applications that will create investment tools with alternative financing methods, to reduce the transfer of money, and to strengthen financial stability in this context. Mr. President, in this part of my speech, I would like to share with you some of the sizes of the Central Administration's Final Accounting Law Proposal in 2020: budget costs are 1 trillion 204 billion, budget revenues 1 trillion 28 billion, budget deficits 175.3 billion, non-interested 41.3 billion dollars. The budget costs of 2020 were less than 10% above budget initial forecast and 0.7 per cent below year-end forecast, given the central management budget forecast and the year-end events. Our budget revenues, however, have increased by 5.5 per cent, according to the initial budget forecast, by 5.5 per cent, according to the forecast for the end of the year. The budget deficit, which occurred in 2020 at $175.3 billion, was originally estimated at over $36.4 billion and below 63.9 billion in the year-end forecast. All of this shows that in 2020, life and economic activity throughout the world had stopped due to the Covid-19 epidemic, while our country had a successful fight against the epidemic without compromising fiscal discipline as a result of the selfless work of the private sector and the public. As 2023 approaches our goals, we will never compromise the financial transparency that constitutes the main backbone of accountability. It's our responsibility to finally account for the work we've taken directly from our nation. In this framework, the 2020 General Action Report, which includes general assessments of the financial structures of local administrations, with the results of public administration and social security institutions in 2020, was presented to public information at the end of June. The audit reports for the 2020 account year submitted to our Parliament of the Court's Presidency have been evaluated in our Plan and Budget Commission. Within the framework of accountability and fiscal transparency principles that our government cares about, the study of the issues detected in the reports has been meticulously and is being done and is sensitive to both structural improvements and regulations and the lack of professional training. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are the equivalent of $230 billion, 16 million of budget deficits -- 501.4 billion in central management budget costs, one trillion 506.3 billion in central management budget revenues, one trillion 276.3 billion in budget revenues, one trillion.3 billion in budget deficits -- $230 billion, 16 million in non-interest deficits -- 50 billion, 473 million in budget costs; in detail, 351.4 billion in the budget costs, the state security costs will cost 57.7 billion in revenues and services, 130.6 billion in trades, 587 billion in capitals, 125 billion, 125 billion in capitals, 125 billion, 125 billion in revenues, 1.5 billion in revenues, 1 billion in revenues, 1 billion in revenues, and services costs for social security institutions. Despite a significant amount of tax revenues have been waived to support the fight against the epidemic and the stabilisation of price stability, we estimate budget revenues will be higher in 2021 due to the high growth of the illegitimate domestics, the strong monitoring of demand, the increase of e-trade and card expenditures, the increase of revenue-building revenues. In this framework, we expect the budget deficit to be below 3.5 per cent predicted in the medium-term programme for national income. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to inform you about the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal. In our budget budget in 2022, budget costs are 1 trillion 751 billion, non-interest costs 1 trillion 510.6 billion, budget revenues 1 trillion 472.6 billion, tax revenues 1 trillion 258.3 billion, budget deficit estimated at $278.4 billion. The distribution of budget costs in 2022 according to economic classification is: personnel costs are 424.8 billion, state premiums to social security institutions are 69.1 billion, goods and services are 128.2 billion, current transfers are 657.3 billion, capital expenditures are 132.3 billion, capital transfers are 10 billion, loans are 61.6 billion, subsidiaries are 27.3 billion, interest costs are $240.4 billion. According to the estimate of 2021 years of central management budget revenues in 2022, it is estimated that 1 trillion 472.6 billion dollars will increase by 18.9 per cent of tax revenues to $1 trillion 258.3 billion and non-tax revenues will reach $214.3 billion. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we estimate that the central management budget revenues will increase by 15.4 per cent in 2022 to 1 trillion 472.6 billion liras compared to the previous year. Tax revenues have been estimated to increase very close to 18.5% in 2022, with an increase of 18.9% in nominal national income. Tax revenues are estimated to be 16 per cent in 2022, as well as in gross domestic revenues. The budget budget for 2022 was due to an additional measure and a tax increase. In 2020 and 2021, temporary tax reductions and postponements due to the global epidemic were assumed not to be needed in 2022. In 2022, the service sector, particularly the tourism sector, was considered to contribute more to economic growth and tax revenues. In 2022, VAT revenues, including 257.2 billion incomes of income tax revenues, 172.4 billion of corporate tax revenues, 124.9 billion of VAT revenues, 219.4 billion of VAT revenues, 290.8 billion in imports, 34.3 billion in stamp tax revenues, 43.7 billion in incomes, bank and insurance revenues, 34.3 billion in revenues, 24.6 billion in revenues of motor car tax revenues, 56.7 billion in revenues from other tax revenues. Mr. President, I'd like to address the basics of our budget in 2022. According to the performance-based programme budget, the central management budget for 2022 has a structure that allows the needs and expectations of society to be more accurate in the budget, linking public resources with public services and boosting public financial management. Its goal is to continue the strong rise of the Turkish economy in a conjunctive of balances due to the global pandemic and to increase the prosperity of our people. In addition, it is the protection and development of gains achieved within the framework of economic stabilisation, the permanent facility of sustainable growth focused on production and efficiency and the negative impact of fair sharing and the outbreak of Covid-19 on the economy. In addition, our budget work focused on the Green Development Revolution and the National Technology Movement is innovative and environmental. The budget for 2022 will be a budget for sustainable contributions, such as in previous years. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're raising health care from the central management budget to $122.6 billion in 2022. In this scope, the budget share of health expenditures was 7 per cent in 2022. We're raising the education budget to $273.5 billion by 29.4 per cent by 2021. We raise the National Ministry of Education budget to $189 billion. In 2022, we're raising our agricultural budget to 57.6 billion dollars. In this scope, we're saving $25.8 billion for agricultural support programmes, 16.3 billion for agricultural sector investment funds, agricultural loan subsidies, acquisitions, agricultural KİT and export supports. In addition, the law adopted in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will no longer cut the income tax cut, which is nearly $600m a year from agricultural support payments to our farmers, and the five-year cuts in reverse will be extradited to $3.5 billion, total money and interest. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we're allocated 68.9 billion dollars from our budget for real sector support. In order to support production and employment in 2022, we're allocated $35.2 billion to our exporters of goods and services, 6.2 billion for loans provided with treasury-backed bail. In addition, we increase the allowance of the women's empowerment program to $943m. We increase the budgets of forests and conservation programs by 55 percent from the previous year to $4 billion 738 million, increasing sustainable and environmental climate change programme funding by 48 per cent to $2 billion 696 million compared to the previous year. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're allocated $104.2 billion to social spending in 2022, as part of our social understanding. In this context, about 23.4 billion for the health premium costs of some 9.5 million citizens with no payability in 2022; 15.6 billion for the elderly over 65 years of age, disabled citizens in need of care, and about 1,400,000 people related to their families. We have earmarked about $2.5 billion in social and economic support for more than 138,000 children who are in economic deprivation, and $2.4 billion in electricity consumption support; 1.4 billion for coal relief; 8.242 for foster care implementation that allows our children to grow up in a family environment. In 2022, our budget will take our progress further, and each citizen's expectations, demands, and dreams will provide the basis for our new success stories. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in reference to income policies and practices, the tax system is a living system, which requires constant review and development in terms of economic, social and environmental needs. With this precision, we've conducted extensive consultations with almost all segments; we've created tax-based economic reforms, and we're implementing these actions within a calendar that we've set out. In this regard, we have ruled that the income of our tax-taxed business by the decision of our great Parliament has been completely exceptioned to taxes. We removed the income tax from agricultural support payments to support our farmer. We're also returning cuts in the past five years. As a result of this arrangement -- I've just expressed -- we'll be paying our farmer about $3.5 billion. We've lightened our income and institutional taxes by removing the workloads of our taxpayers and occupational workers from the last term of their temporary tax returns and payments. In taxation, we will continue without compromise from fiscal discipline to our policies and practices that we have taken to the centre the stability and predictability of our citizens and our real sector. To increase the quality of public revenues, we will focus more on income resources, strengthen tax voluntary integration, continue our decisive stance in our fight against unregisteredness, which will increase efficiency in tax collection. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we believe that our budget for 2022 will be based on the highest quality public service in order to improve the development of our country and the prosperity of our citizens. We will no longer compromise fiscal discipline, as we have done so far in implementing our budget. As I end my words, I wish our country and our nation the best of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law and the 2020 Central Management Act. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I express our gratitude to Mr. President for the perspective, leadership and support he has provided at every stage of the process. (EC PARTY and UMP rows) I would like to thank our strategy and budget president and all of our ministries, ministers, all of our ministers who have contributed to the creation of our budget proposal, especially our Treasury and Finance Ministry, to our relevant, connected public institutions and representatives, to their employees once again. Once again, I'd like to thank the Honorable President and members of our Plan and Budget Commission for their contribution. For your contributions, Mr. President, you and the members of the General Assembly, I thank you all in advance, and I salute you once again.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0005par0104	Mr. Vice President, we are MPs, not members of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0006par0105	Thank you, Mr. Oktay. Members of parliament, talks on Budget and Final Account Law Proposals will be held according to the programme, which has been pushed and distributed in accordance with the decision made in the 23rd Union of November 24th, 2021. At first, talks on the entire budget will be made to political party groups and to conduct their views in accordance with Article 62 of the Civil Code, which can be used by multiple speakers. Speaking on behalf of individuals, the deadline will be ten minutes. Now, I'm reading the names of political party groups, executive groups, and those who take the word for themselves over the entire budget, respectively: On behalf of the Party Group Deputy Chairs Mr. Dursun Dervisoğlu and Samsun MP Mr. Erhan Usta; On behalf of the People's Party Group, Deputy Chairs of the Group, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Sakarya MP Mohammed Levent Bulbul; On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group Co-Chairs Mr. Pervin Buldan and Mardin MP Mr. Mihat Sancar; On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu (Applause from the ranks) and Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu (Applause) Deputy Chair of Justice and Development Party Party member of the People's Party of Justice and İstanbul MP Nutman and İstanbul MP Nutinimanimur. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] On behalf of him, the leader of the Grand Union Party, and Mr Mustafa Destici, the Ankara MP. Vice President Fuat Oktay on behalf of the executive. And finally, on behalf of the person, the Democratic Party's Co-Chair and Diyarbakır MP Salihe Aydeniz will take the stand. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, the first word on behalf of the group belongs to the group's Deputy Leader and İzmir MP Dursun Musavat Dervisoglu. Here you are, Mr. Dervisoglu. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0007par0118	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, distinguished presidents of our political parties and our dear citizens who are watching us on television, I salute you with all my deepest respect. I'm here to explain the views of our well-being party on the 2022 Central Management Law and the 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. At the beginning of my speech, I bow down before the memory of the national will, the founding will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all precious individuals, including Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the heart of the democratic system, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a guarantee of individual rights and freedoms. For this reason, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must act primarily by owning its own existence and rights, knowing that it represents the Turkish nation's superior will. Sovereignty belongs only to the Turkish nation. Therefore, the sovereignty of the Turkish nation cannot be abandoned to anyone, institution, community or class under any circumstances. This Veteran Parliament, which has fought for its independence and has established the state of the Republic of Turkey, will never surrender to the presidential government system and the one-man regime, which is the cause of economic collapse, bureaucratic corruption, political camping. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Those who are familiar with our history of democracy know that the 1924 Constitution was discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the 25th article of the draft text could decide whether the elections should be renewed and decided on the dissolution of the Assembly, provided to inform parliament and the nation of the grounds of the Reisicumhur. So Reisicumhura was asked to be authorized to terminate the existing existence of the House and bring it to the country's elections. Mahmoud Assat Bozkurt, a young MP at the time, stood on the stand of this great Assembly and objected as follows: "In what part of the world can the state organization disband the House despite the fact that the sovereignty is a unconditional nation?," said the late Şükrü Saracoğlu, again: "The government is a unconditional nation. If we say so, even the President of this great Assembly can't disband its authority to disband the Parliament that day." Gazi Parliament has not given the Turkish nation's Commander-in-Chief in the war for independence a power to end its own existence, not even Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Ataturk, the founder of our state, has appointed Mahmoud Assat Bozkurt and Şukrü Saracoğlu, who opposes the decree of dissolution to the President in the constitution of 1924. Today, we appreciate the view of that day once again, and we salute that Assembly again, based on the understanding that has been recorded in history, which deprived those who object today of even the honor of the institution. (Applause from the Party and CHP) Because the republic and democracy aim to find the best, the best, the best, the best for the Turkish nation. But at the point where we're here today, the state of the Justice and Development Party, which is the product of a mind that has not internalized the republic and democracy, is governed by the government system of the Republic of Turkey, which still cannot be understood, where all the powers are gathered in one man. Turkey's single-man regime, which led Turkey to political and economic collapse, created an unsupervised, arbitrary understanding of governance, an unsupervised execution, which has limited the powers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The party's president, through the decrees, has practically forfeited the Parliament's mandate to legislature. The judicial independence and neutrality have been effectively terminated, the overwhelming, fearless longing for judgment has begun day by day under the influence of law politics. The party's president has stopped being a representative of the state and the nation, a representative of a political opinion, and has become the reason for political camping. The mandate and responsibility of 600 lawmakers has been abandoned by a government that cannot comprehend the essence and soul of our republic, even to the founder of our state, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The budget and authority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly has been taken away from you. Those who covet the authorities of this House and see the individual as the cause of the state must return and look back on the past. The date of the Turkish Republic's democratisation is the date of defence and expansion of the officials of this Veteran Assembly. Those who think that the state of the Republic of Turkey is the individual state, who think that state property is their property and who eat it, who own it, who own it, and the subcontractors of it, especially if I go, the state will be destroyed. Listen to us, as the party, we say this, hear our words: You will leave this power in the first general election. (APPLAUSE) Your name and the bad memories you left behind will be forgotten, you won't remember, and the Turkish nation and the Republic of Turkey will be divided forever. (Applause from party lines) Because if I go to this country, the state will be destroyed. Not by those who say, "My humble body will one day be dust, but by the land of those who say, "The Republic of Turkey will live forever." [[▪Bravo (Bravo) voices, applause from the good party ranks; applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, we're discussing a budget offered by appointed bureaucrats, not by elected officials, in a parliament that has been stripped of budgetary power. I don't even know how right it is to call it a discussion. A text came from the palace, with pages of documents. There is no cure for the poverty of the citizen, there is no solution to the problem of the YIT, there is no resources to fulfill your promise of 3600, there is no youth, there is no children, there is no women. There's no hope for the future in this budget that comes our way, and there's no happiness promised to our people. The owner of this budget isn't here either. Where is the President? (Applause from the Party and CHP) He doesn't come to defend his budget, he doesn't come to present his own budget; we say: "Mr. President probably has a lot to do." Mr. President should take the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and feel compelled to act like one. (Applause from the Party and CHP) Turkey's respect for the Grand National Assembly will of course be a matter of debate for a president who has been unable to present the budget or to defend the budget since 4 budgets. So we look at this budget as an orphan and an orphan budget from the very beginning, no matter where you look at it, whether or not the President will be kind enough to present it or not. This budget is a budget of absence, and the result of this budget is, of course, corruption. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] As the MCC, we've given the ruling group several times, pointing out that we've submitted motions to the problems of the people you've forgotten, who you're afraid to interfere with, we've moved them to the Commission agenda, we've submitted 19 motions in the Commission talks. Not one of you took your word and talked about these proposals, not one of you argued, not one of you bothered to discuss our proposals. In fact, it's not that I don't agree with you; talking, arguing, compromise, it makes sense in a community that has free will. Each of you stood ready to raise your hand to reject the motions, saying no to our suggestions regarding the obvious problems of 84 million. Not one of you, not one of you, has come forward and explained why you rejected these motions. We're putting too much pressure on you in this freaky system where even the ministers can't speak without permission, they don't even have the right to an honorable resignation, they can only ask for forgiveness. We're asking too much. I remind you of the virtue of the concepts of freedom and personality, and I leave more to your ability to describe and imagine.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0008par0132	Mr. President, these are very harsh statements. Mr. President, these statements are very harsh.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0009par0133	Look at you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0007par0134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0009par0135	You can't tell us that!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0010par0136	Every congressman you see here is honorable and honorable.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0007par0137	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0010par0138	Please invite the preacher to use a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0011par0139	Mr. President, this isn't right!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0007par0140	Personality...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0010par0141	We're returning these statements with the same one.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0011par0142	We're returning it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0007par0143	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0012par0144	Guys, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0013par0145	Each of us has his will, his dignity, and his honor. Please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0014par0146	You talk... you don't laugh, you don't laugh!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0012par0147	Let's just calm down, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0015par0148	Now...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0014par0149	You can't tell us that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0012par0150	Let's move on.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0016par0151	Please invite him to a clean use.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0017par0152	I used a pretty clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0018par0153	It's so clean!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0016par0154	You can't talk about people's dignity and dignity.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0018par0155	You don't say anything about our dignity.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0019par0156	I've left it to your emancipation and your imagination.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0018par0157	And you have no right to say it!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0020par0158	Don't make this personal.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0019par0159	I won't insult your character or your honor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0020par0160	Talk about the budget, talk about the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0021par0161	How could you not!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0019par0162	I'm not the one who raised the honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0020par0164	No one has brought honor and honor to their feet. We're the ones guarding the moon of this great coven.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0021par0165	What's that got to do with anything? You're talking! Tell your own president!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0022par0166	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0021par0167	Why don't you tell your president?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0022par0168	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0023par0169	If he shuts up, I'll keep going.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0021par0170	Mr. President, no one speaks to our character.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0024par0171	Mr. President, there's a owner of the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0025par0172	Mr. Tastyoglu, your friend is on the stand. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0026par0173	Mr. President, the owner of the budget is correct.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0025par0174	Mr. Ünal, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0027par0175	Use clean language! That's not right!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0025par0176	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0028par0177	He owns the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0029par0178	There's a budget holder, but he's talking about us, about our honor...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0030par0179	It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0031par0180	Sit the fuck down! Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0030par0181	No way, Mayor!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0031par0182	So what do we do?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0030par0183	You can't say it!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0032par0184	Osman Bey...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0031par0185	Sir, look...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0033par0186	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0031par0187	It's me...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0034par0188	He's talking about our honor, our dignity, the preacher's not talking about the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0031par0189	I never said anything about honor and dignity.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0034par0190	You can't talk about our will, our honor, our dignity.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0031par0191	I don't understand why you're being so touchy.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0035par0192	I didn't say it. You say it and you say it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0031par0193	Anyway, it could be...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0194	Yeah, you're talking... and we're going to the public, and you're the only one going?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0037par0195	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0196	What are you doing?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0038par0197	What am I doing?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0198	I'm going to the public, too. You're just going to the public?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0038par0199	Where are you going?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0039par0200	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0201	We're all going, we're all on the field.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0039par0202	Mr. Bak, I didn't promise you anything, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0203	You can't tell us that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0040par0204	Sir, if I may...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0205	Speech!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0041par0206	Please, I promised a friend on the stand, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0040par0207	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0208	No way.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0041par0209	You have the right to answer, over.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0042par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0212	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0042par0213	This is...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0043par0214	Mr. Dervisoglu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0215	You can't tell me!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0042par0216	This is the heart of Turkish democracy.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0217	All right, you can't insult your public defender.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0044par0218	Guys, let's hear it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0042par0219	You will not be able to commit indecency on the throne because you are in power.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0036par0221	You can't do it, and neither can you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0042par0222	You insufferable...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0045par0223	An insult is not a right.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0042par0224	That's right.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0225	You're talking.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0042par0226	That's right, because there's no insult to the middle.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0227	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0047par0228	The House Council requires a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0048par0229	Please, Mr. Ünal... please, okay, you want the word, you answer.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0230	You can rule it out...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0048par0231	Mr. Bak, please, please, but I mean...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0049par0232	Let me send you the exact same sentence or look at it in the transcripts. I'm not sure I understand your feisty.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0233	We're going to the fucking field!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0049par0234	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0235	You can't answer the citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0049par0236	Will you shut him up?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0237	You're running away from the citizen, Miss Meral is running away from the citizen, why don't you talk to her? And you're swearing at the citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0050par0238	Mr. Bak, Mr. Bak! Please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0049par0239	That's good, that's good...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0240	You're swearing at the citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0050par0241	Stay in formation, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0049par0242	We'll talk about it when your Home Secretary gets here.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0046par0243	Don't talk, don't talk!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0051par0244	Mr. President, there can't be a meeting like this. Shut it down, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0052par0245	Mr. Master, it's okay, we're interfering.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0053par0246	Mr. President, I understand the insufferableness, and I know they'll kick the truth out of nine villages, but that's where I'm telling you, I'm not going to leave threats on this side.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0054par0248	And we won't make them talk!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0055par0249	You're talking!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0053par0250	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0055par0251	You're going to the citizen; you're swearing at the citizen, even that...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0056par0253	Mr. Bak, please! Warn your friend, Deputy Group Presidents, that's not the way to do it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0057par0255	We'll get to that, we'll get to that. If you do this in Congress, the provocateurs you're behind will do more. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0058par0257	Nobody does, you're talking!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0059par0258	Mr. Bak... Mr. Group Vice Presidents, would you please silence our friend?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0060par0260	Mr. President, this is not a man to be silenced, someone hold it down, hold it down.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0059par0261	Mr. Dervisoglu, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0061par0262	Let him wear his mask, Mr. President. Let him wear his mask. Let him wear his mask, spread the disease.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0062par0263	What's the matter, are you uncomfortable? Does it bother you when you tell the truth?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0063par0264	If you keep talking about where you're sitting... you won't ruin my idea, your words will give me strength on this stand. I am the voice of the Turkish nation, not the errand boy of power.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0062par0266	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0063par0267	I'm not responsible for anyone's manners, I'm not responsible for their language. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs of the ruling party are going to take this stand today, and they're going to try to draw a picture of dust pink, which is completely fictional, wrapped up in the numbers, fake growths, non-profit achievements. When it comes to the talks of the AK PARTI Group, we ask that the country, the people and institutions mentioned in this publication are completely fictional. Let them give a warning. [[A round of applause from the Good Party and CHP]] AS A GOOD Party, we strive to uphold the law, to uphold the truth of our nation, to protect our farmers, to our tradesmen, to protect the rights of every citizen in the face of power, to understand, to understand, to understand, to understand, to understand, to understand, to understand. In this country, we have citizens who are condemned to cheap bread lines. We have children in this country, like mountain ranges tested by unemployment and despair. There are many mothers in this country whose pot is not boiling. In this country, there are fathers who commit suicide because they can't afford their son's school. Get out of your palace, get out of your cars and listen to the citizen! You'll hear the following words: your power means poverty. Your power means cost. Your power means unemployment. Your power is a waste. Your power means injustice. Now, you can get up on this stand and deny the truth of this saintly nation with some fancy words and puns, but the day will come when those facts will find you and you'll get caught in the first election, and you'll pay for it sooner or later. Democracy is the name of an account and accountability regime whether you accept it or not. Those who have nothing left to defend start to deny everything to justify themselves. You have nothing left to defend the work of the Turkish people but to sell it to the international markets as a cheap labor force. The interest you took out of the Turkish nation's pockets was satisfied by the power you paid to the loan sharks in London, the contractors who sucked the blood of this nation. [[BEHIND THE GOOD PARTY (Bravo) voices, applause; Applause from CHP rows]] In your 19 years of power, you know where you've brought the country. Poverty, corruption, social dissolution, disparity in foreign policy, and isolation, favorism, and adhering; these are your omens. At this point, there's only one good thing you can do for the country, and that's an immediate choice. If you can't manage it, you can eat the potatoes, onions, you can take the peppers, tomatoes, you can take the grain, you can shrink the portions of the food you're eating. So go forth to the people and bring them before the people whom they assert. See then the truth of the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a very important and dangerous point. Because of the wrong monetary policies of power, wealth and property are rapidly changing hands in Turkey. At this time and on the ground, when the Turkish lira melted, our property lost all its value. Foreign capital is also sold at the expense, Turkey is looted as well. However, the government, which claims to be domestic and national, offers Turkish citizenship as a promotion along with property and companies that foreign capital has bought cheaply. Shame on you, this political mind and power that disbanded Turkish citizenship as a promotion. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The Justice and Development Party prefers to be a government that governs the poverty it creates, rather than to be a prosperous and shared power. Because of one man's political stubbornness, the sunflower oil became rationed, and lines began to form in the oil aisles. Grocery stores, like a foreign currency office, write instant oil, flour, sugar prices on their windows. Our citizen can't get what he's getting today for the same price, not a month, not a week, not even a day later. Absence, poverty, and poverty have taken over the entire land. Those who call their one-man regime the Turkish-type presidential system, now calling it a Turkish-type economic model, are doing an economic experiment on our people. You think the Turkish nation is a guinea pig? You used to be taking risks, and now you're riding into dark adventures. We warn you, we advise you, this is the freaking system that fuels poverty, this freak system that melts the citizens' income from day to day. First you try to save this freaky system, and then when you don't, you go after saving your power, and now you're worried about saving yourself. (PEOPLE CHATTERING) People say enough is enough! O chieftains of a time, you are going to be able to escape the scales of the people, but you will never be able to hide. Fear not, but bring the Ark, and surrender yourselves to the mercy of this nation. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, we are now discussing the 2022 Year Budget Law Proposal under the roof of this exalted Assembly, whose powers have been declared. When the budget proposal we discussed was presented to parliament, the funds amounted to $211 billion, and now amounting to $130 billion. This means that more than one-third of the state's budget for 2022 of the Republic of Turkey has been melted and destroyed while it is being discussed in the Commission. This budget has lost its meaning. It is necessary to withdraw this budget, which has lost its meaning and reason for its existence, instead to present an economic programme that envisions an early election calendar with the common agreement of all political parties. At the beginning of 2021, our foreign debt was $3.2 trillion for Turkish lira, and at the moment we're here, the debt has risen to $6 trillion. Since the beginning of the year, Turkey's external debt has increased by 2.8 trillion due to the loss of Turkish lira. The tax from 84 million of our citizens in 2022 is 1 trillion $400 billion. You know what that means? Two times the amount of tax collected from 84 million of our citizens has been lost because of the ambitions of one man. Due to the rise in currency in the last two months alone, the increase in our foreign debt is worth 1 trillion 750 billion Turkish liras. The increase is equivalent to the entire budget of 2022 central management. In the last two months, the entire budget of our nation has been wiped out because of your incompetence and your stubbornness of the economy. Currently, in fact, Turkey's Grand National Assembly is discussing a non-existing budget. In 2022, the income tax of millions of our employees will be cut from their salary by 241 billion liras. How much does Turkey pay for interest? That's $240 billion. You cut 30 lira per month and 900 lira per month from all the income of the registered employee, the officer, the minimum wage, and you give it to the interest lobby. And then you say, "We're against interest. There's interest in the tax debt of the citizen, there's interest in the debt of the citizen, there's interest in the student loan, there's interest in the farmer's agricultural loans. I thought you were against interest. I thought Nas was in the middle. Does God's verse have a few? (Applause from party lines) Delete the citizen's debt interest as soon as you remove the tax debt from five contractors. But you can't because the Justice and Development Party is against interest, not taking power from citizens. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Now, I'm asking you, is Mandaism a means to stop this robbery order, or is it to mortgage money in people's pockets like you do? The main thing is to attract our country's one-year budget to foreign capital with a two-month increase in foreign currency, gentlemen. (APPLAUSE) The main magnetism is to make Turkey's one-third of its one-year budget melt before it reaches the General Assembly. The main catch is to abandon foreign currency-certified rant projects to the conscience of the British courts. There's no point in discussing and discussing this budget with all these facts in the open. You've come with the promise of peace and prosperity, you've condemned the Turkish nation to poverty with the party presidency government system, and you can boast of your work. In Turkey, poverty is no longer the problem of a part of society, but it is the way of life for almost all of them. The shopkeeper, the farmer, the worker, takes blood; he can't profit; he pays rent; he can't earn money; he struggles; but he can't find a job; he tries to hold on to life; power thinks he can reduce inflation by police measures by throwing crime at outside forces instead of helping people's problems. Terrorist farmers, lobbyist greengrocers, outside forces' tongs, market chains, and no one believes in lies anymore. There's a complex relationship between imperialism and the power of the AK PARTY that needs to be explained. When things go wrong for the AK PARTY, imperialism immediately goes down, imperialism goes up; you say the dark plans of outside forces, the sneaky schemes of lobbying; when things work out, you don't talk about external forces; or do you have other affairs and relationships? All your black propaganda efforts are futile. Our nation clearly sees that the real issue is Mr. Erdogan and the AK PARTY. Mr. Erdoğan speaking, Turkish lira is losing value; Mr. Erdoğan speaking, the cost of life is increasing; Mr. Erdoğan speaking, our nation is becoming poorer. Like you said to me, we called him "shut up" over and over again, but we couldn't get him to listen. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0064par0288	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0063par0289	If we've got stamps today, it's obvious who's responsible if the kitchens are back on fire, if our nation is getting more crushed under inflation every day. It is not the foreign forces that are responsible, but Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has ruled the country's economy for 20 years. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] You will not be able to change or delay the absolute end of power by saying the hammock, as if it were a war of economic salvation. A month ago, Turkey was flying, the economy was booming. You said, "The Turkish economy has been occupied and has reached the point where it will fight for salvation." That's right, the Turkish economy is occupied; it's the ruling owners today who occupy the Turkish economy. The Turkish nation has endured enough of your persecution. We're going to tear down this order of extortion. (APPLAUSE) People, please welcome Turkey's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0065par0294	Mr. Dervisoglu, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0063par0295	The Turkish nation has endured enough of your persecution. We're going to tear down this debauched order. Let our nation rest in peace, Turkey has no problems unresolved. Yes, inflation is high, but we're ready, we'll figure it out. Yeah, the raises don't stop, but we're ready, we'll figure it out. Yes, unemployment has especially upset our young people, but we're ready, we'll figure it out. We restore the sense of justice, we're ready, we'll solve it. As the PLO Party, we will re-build the parliamentary democracy, the rule of law, the rule of separation of powers, a fair state, a fair society, a fair bureaucracy, honest politics, a rich and peaceful Turkey ▪ by sticking to the principles of the establishment of the state of Ataturk, established by the Turkish Republic. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our path is for the great Turkish nation; our journey and our struggle are for the great Turkish nation. There is no doubt that we will be successful. Blessed is he who says he is Turkish! [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0066par0303	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0067par0304	Mr. Yilmaz, let the speeches be completed for the group, and then I'll make a promise.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0066par0305	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0067par0306	Now, dear friends, second speaker on behalf of the PTA Party Group, Deputy Director of the Group and Samsun MP Mr. Erhan Usta. Here you go, Mr. Master. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0068par0310	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens, first of all, I salute you all. I've been promised the entire budget for 2022 on behalf of the Good Party Group. Of course, when we look at it, what's the budget, what's the use? Because it seems to me it's about time to ask the question, because, you know, maybe he's budgeted close to 20, but there's some serious concern about what the budget is doing today. Budgets are documents that basically allow government revenues to be collected, expenditures to be made. Budgets are intended to solve the problems of societies; they aim to increase the welfare of society through financial policy, to bring stability to the economy. When we looked at today's budget, we just -- come on, while we were talking -- some of our friends came out, but as the Vice President spoke, we saw how unexcited and desperate the AK PARTY group was. And hopefully -- and now all the indicators are showing it -- it's going to be your last budget, because a group without excitement can't make a budget. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] We are looking at the vision of this budget, dear friends. This budget has no vision. Mr. Oktay has already shown no vision. Now I'm going to ask you a very clear question, the precious AK PARTY executives who will talk after me: we're going to spend $1 billion 750 million on this budget, or the society has a lot of problems, which budget will that solve? Let him give us one example, and we will solve this problem with the money we spend. If they can say that, fine. Because this budget has no purpose. When this budget has already arrived -- and Mr. Musavat has just expressed it -- it's a mid-term program, and we're seeing it today, it's melted one third of the budget. This budget lost its macroeconomic framework. Budgets are done according to our legislation, you know, within the medium-term program. Something was written in the mid-term programme, the issues Mr. Erdogan and then appointed ministers discussed by the president of the Central Bank are completely inverted from the paradigm in that medium-term programme. So this budget has no basis. This budget doesn't give the public confidence, it doesn't give them hope. Society has a lot of problems. What's our most important problem? It's poverty. Is there a cure for poverty in this budget? No. Is there a way to improve the revenue distribution in this budget? I don't have that either. Is there a cure for unemployment, inflation? I don't have that either. Is there any support for industrialization? Is there support for the COBI? Is there any support for farmers to spread fertilizer in the face of increased inputs? I'm afraid not. No EYT, 3600 additional indicators, no non-assigned teachers, no non-assigned paramedics. So, it's an absence budget, but let's not be unfair, there are some things in this budget, of course. What's in the budget? There's a ton of money being transferred to public-special cooperation projects, and it works perfectly in dollars. As the dollar goes up, contractors of public-private cooperation projects, supporters are making money right now, they have resources. There's waste, there's glitter, there's reign, there's support for the contractors, even if you make billions of dollars, there's an exemption for interest revenue. This government, which receives 20 per cent of the minimum wage, does not receive a cent of the tax from those who receive billions of dollars in interest revenues; this is such a budget. (Applause from the party lines) So, friends, we call this budget, with one side the budget of absence, and on the other the budget of corruption. This budget, at its final destination, will have a budget of destruction. Dear friends, now that you're looking, in the era of Mr. Berat Collar, there's a constant new word for it. Now, this is the first mid-term program of Mr. Collarak. It's called the New Economy Programme. This didn't happen, this didn't hold, and the next year -- there are little changes in the names -- another program called the New Economy Programme. And that didn't happen, and that didn't hold, and there was a fire, and the Turkish economy was on fire, and again another new Economy Program. For the first time, there was such a new but reasonable, reasonable medium-term program this year, and they saw it a lot, Mr. Lütfi Eltona, and this was that program. Now, after the program comes out -- this time it's worse -- there's something called the new economic programme, the new model, the Chinese model. Sure, there's nothing new about it. You thought you could solve no problems until the election, provide a temporary release, but all of these programs blew up in your hands. Even the yeast that Nasrettin Hoxha stole into the lake is more likely than that new model you call it. So what's the main backbone of what you call this program, or what you call a model? To devalue Turkish lira; to increase exports, to bring trade deficits to a certain level; then, sir, the exchange will expand, then inflation will fall. Such a program doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Dear friends, this is the program that you're trying to do by devalue Turkish lira, by crushing Turkish workers, by crushing labor; this is what you call China. You're not saying today's Chinese, you're not saying that 40 years ago, you're taking a Chinese model in the hangars where people live in inhuman conditions, where they live in one place on the other, in this century, and you're showing it as a model; it's a pity, it's a pity. With such new programs as you call them, sir, the Turkish nation is not an experiment, it is not a guinea pig, and the Turkish economy is not a laboratory. So let's call it exactly what you call this model, this is not a new model, this is a scenario of desperation, this is a scenario of chaos, my dear friends. Now, we said the paradigm changed in the budget. On 22 November 2021, Mr. President made a statement after the Cabinet meeting, saying: "We haven't had any political results in the last nine years or so, we haven't been able to solve any problems, we're going to change them. You know what he actually said? He himself has personally admitted how 19 years have been wasted, how in 19 years economic programs or economic practices have not been achieved, but even that conclusion is wrong. Look, we take care of the AK PARTY more than the AK PARTY. There have been years when the EC PARTY ruled this country well -- valuable friends -- there have been times when our people's welfare has increased, our economy has improved, production has increased, employment has increased. Yes, the last 12 years have been bad, but Mr. Erdogan has erased all 19 years. He is right about this, because he is worse off than Turkey in 2002, where Turkey's economy is taking over today, perhaps he tried to say it. But I'm warning him from here: what's wrong is that in 19 years, 600 billion dollars have been misused into the Turkish Republic's economy. This money came to the Turkish economy because it was trust, it was stability, at certain times, global liquidity was abundant; we've told a lot about it here, but what was wrong? You buried this 600 billion dollars in stone, soil, concrete, and then you corrupted it through the rant economy, and you smuggled it out of the country. (PEOPLE Applause) That's what's done, and that's what's blocked Turkey today. Now, I'm going to make the MGK bet on them, but before I forget, if the MGK was going to take the economy on its agenda, that question had to be asked, where did you spend $600 billion in the last nine years? Why should this economy be asked such a fragile question, and the MGK should be asked its own. Now, dear friends, if we go back to the beginning a little bit, what we call China, they crushed the effort 40 years ago, but they did it wisely. What did they do? They've saved money. What did they do? They invested, they invested 40 per cent of the national income. They turned their country into a production base, and after that, now they're trying to increase their national income rapidly. What are we doing? Our investments... we don't save half as much as China's -- I'm telling you, in terms of national income, we can't get past it anyway -- but we can't save half as much as their national income. How are you going to make it a production base? They made it a production base, we made it a concrete pile. That's why we're having problems right now. And China did all this with central planning, and you removed the State Planning Agency. How are you going to do that? I have to ask you that question. Dear friends, there's only one thing the government has done: now that it knows it's not going to go, there's no way to put the economy back together, especially to play the perception management to consolidate its own constituent base, continuous perception management. So one day there is Nas. He says, "One day there are forces out there," and one day he writes a book, and the next day he says, "Don't keep this nation occupied; people are burning in poverty, they are turning their heads, they are in poverty." Now, if you say there's a nas, if you say there's an interest lobby. You say there's a interest lobby. In 19 years, the total interest payment of the AK PARTI governments made from the budget was $516 billion, dear friends. Isn't that 516 billion dollars you spent? (APPLAUSE) In the 19 years before you, governments have returned to this state with 248 billion dollars, even though those budget deficits were too high. You've paid more than two times their interest in the budget, and now you're leaving, and you're saying there's nas. And I remind you that most of them are forbidden, and most of them are forbidden. Dear friends, when the policy interest is 19 percent, we've reached 15 percent, no such thing, no such thing? Why are you getting mixed up in this? So there's nas. If we're saying that we need to reset all the interest and all the interest. Why are you taking 19.2 percent interest per loan from students who are late? The student gets his loan, and the month after the end of four years, he's billed in front of him, 70 percent increase; I told him here, from $24,000 to $48,000. You know what I mean? Now, you're going to get about 100 percent interest from the student, and then you're going to come after him. You're going to say, "Nas." You're not going to charge interest on the deposit, you're going to come after it. You're going to say, "Nas." There's no way to accept such a thing. There are outside forces, you say. Now, Mr. Erdogan... everyone's saying it, and I'm saying it. Now, what does Mr. Erdogan say in his speech: we have a custom, when something happens to us, we call it external forces. I can't agree with that, but if you're healthy, the virus in your system won't hurt you. He says, he's telling the truth. But today -- I don't know if it's cancer or whatever -- if anything happens to us, the outside forces attack. I've said it many times, and I'm willing to argue with anyone who wants to argue with me, dear friends. There is no outside force attack on Turkey, Turkey is not under a financial attack; what is done is your mismanagement, what is done is that people in the country are trying to protect their own situation in the face of increasing dollars and inflation. Who's demanding dollars today? Domestic residents demand dollars, and if they have a good or bad savings, they want it to go to waste. Real outside the sector, our firms owe $125 billion, about to go down, what's he doing? He's demanding dollars. Today, you make fun of this nation by saying, "There are outside forces against the increasing 30 to 40 cents a day. " There's no way to accept that. Just yesterday, you called the United Arab Emirates the Outer Power, dear friends, the financier of July 15th. Because he's bringing in $10 billion? Outer power became a hero, a savior. In fact, I still don't understand, Mr. Erdogan says there was a family-sensitive visit to meet with the Prince. And I think we'll probably understand what you're saying here in years to come. Now, outside forces, external forces... spend $128 billion and make Turkish lira vulnerable and vulnerable. Did foreign forces give you this instruction? Is that even possible? I don't think there's any need to look for outside power anywhere. Whoever imposes these wrong policies on you, those outside forces are yours. I wrote the book of ekonomi. He says one day, it's not two days later, it's two days later we're fighting the War of Salvation. Which one is it? If we've written the book of economics, why are we fighting the War of Salvation? If this country wrote a book about the War of Salvation, dear friends... it's true, then the War of Salvation must be fought. (Applause from the Party) A hundred years ago, this country gave the War of Salvation, and a hundred years ago, it gave the War of Salvation. We didn't see any invasion, let it be a Battle of Salvation again. And you've been running this country for 20 years, and if there's been an invasion, it's happened during your time, sorry. So, then, those who cause the invasion can never be the savior, so the savior must be different. What you call "rescue war in the economy" is an effort not to escape in the neoliberal order, but to maintain your power in the neoliberal order. You've put the country in the hands of international loan sharks, you've sold Turkish lands to foreigners despite court decisions, and now you're accusing those who have told you these wrongs as economists. It's a shame, it's a sin. Dear friends, the MGK in its statement finally states: "In the process of implementing economic policies, threats have been assessed by Turkey's trials and challenges. " As I explained the 2018 budget in 2017, I also talked about the economic security issue -- we could open and look at the notices -- we said in those days: there is a serious connection between Turkey's economic security and national security; Turkey's economic security is being undermined, the country is going into trouble. Look at these, look at them, and we've said over and over again, "Don't make these mistakes; none of them have been done." Some criticised, "Is the economic issue discussed in the MGK? It can be discussed because the problems in the economy are now a matter of national security, but the MGK sees it through what infrastructure, that's something else. I'm calling the MGK: If you were going to talk about the economy or talk about it, you should have discussed: Why is Turkey the most fragile economy in the world? What are the policies that make Turkey the world's most fragile economy? Economic policies carried out by unlicensed and unqualified staffs have weakened Turkey. The main national security issue is the weakening of Turkey's economy; the main issue of national security is the condition of citizens who wait in the queues of People's Bread in the rain until evening to get the bread at a price of 50 cents. Prices of basic consumers increase daily, consumers' loan debt has reached their throats. In 2002, the loan he received at $2.2 billion increased the debt to 941 billion euros by the EC PARTY governments today -- 427 times the debt of consumers. That's the problem with national security, that's what we should be talking about. Farmers' tractors are in foreclosure, their land is in foreclosure, $2.6 billion in debt, up to 172 billion. During 19 years of EC PARTY governments, the farmer's income increased by only 10 times, while his debt increased 66 times. The problem with national security is that today we have land that can't be planted, and because it can't get fertilizer, it's because it can't deliver fertilizer; it needs to be discussed by the National Security Council. Even our grandchildren are in debt with public-special cooperation projects, so if he's going to talk about anything, he should have talked about it at MGK. Poverty is growing and deepening every day, and millions of people live on the help provided by the government, and millions of people who are left out of the aid scope are miserable. The EC PARTY has increased its external debt of 130 billion dollars to $446 billion. Today, the EC PARTY is in debt in dollars, even from its own citizens, and today, the dollarization has increased so much that Turkish lira has become minority money in the country; this is the main national security issue. Dear friends, half the employees are paid on minimum wage, which is below the age of hunger. Farmers are miserable, milk cows go to slaughter. These are the main national security issues; if the MGK is to discuss the economy, they should discuss them. And the main manda are those who apply these wrong policies. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The government, Mr. Erdogan and his cabinet, clearly said, "We will devalue Turkish lira." And they give it different model names and so on, a different story. Dear friends, what harm is there now from the increase of Kur? Some say, "The Kur is going to increase; this is going to happen; this is what will happen. This is what will happen. This is what will happen. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Yes. &lt;i&gt;Yes. &lt;i&gt;Yes. &lt;i&gt;This is what will happen. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;This is what will happen.&gt; &lt;/i&gt;I&gt; &lt;i&gt;The Turkish currency of Turkey's debt from the Republic of Turkey has increased from 1923 to 2021.&lt;/i&gt; &lt; &lt;/i&gt;/i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; You've collected debt in 11 months as much as we've saved in Republic history. Now, in an economy like this, what if there's more love? Can you say that? I call to your conscience -- you don't have to say anything -- and I say to your mind and to your conscience: How can you present this policy to this nation? We don't know where it's going; maybe it's going to go for $20. Look, if this policy continues, in this country, the court will see 20 liras in 2022, friends; which one of us would dream of 14 liras? In March 2021, before Naci Agbal was removed from office, the dollar was dry -- although the dollar was raised -- the precious friends came to $14 today, and 100 per cent increased, and you say: "Extreme forces, external forces, foreign forces -- did the foreign forces tell you to remove the President of the Central Bank in the middle of the night?" [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] So are the central management debts. The groom made a mistake -- he made a lot of mistakes -- and the grave mistake he made was that even from inside Turkey, dollars were borrowed in gold. Today, when you look at the stockpile of the central management budget, 81 per cent of it is either inflated or inflationed. Now, when they're indexed -- all three of them are moving together -- you know -- right now, inevitably, the debt supply of the budget has also increased dramatically. So if we give all of our tax revenues, it's not enough to cover the arrangement in the budget's debt supply over the last two years. Dear friends, you're going to collect taxes from 84 million, you're going to transfer it to a bunch of accountants to keep your debt stock in place. This kind of economic management doesn't exist. What more will the increase in courtship bring? The cost of life has already started, and more will start, poverty will increase, wealth will change hands, and all the stalls that people, especially our COBIs, have set up over the years will fall into the hands of foreigners, and it will go to the price of a bargain, and the price of a dollar will increase, and the cost of a TL will increase, of course, tremendously. Now, there are a couple of odd claims that I'd like to talk to them about. Mr. Oktay just told me that real interest is negative in other countries. He said, "Here are some examples of European countries and some of the developing countries." That's right, and they're negative for real interest, but let's see, why don't they lose their dry value like ours? Because, dear friends, right now -- for the world, not for us, our inflation was high yesterday, and the day before -- there's a temporary rise in inflation in the world. So the whole world, especially in America, for example, what is America's policy interest now? 0.25 percent. What's his inflation? Six or seven percent. And I'll tell you right now, if interest causes, inflation results, how many years has America been paying 0.25 percent interest, inflation wouldn't have gone up there? So your theory is sinking from one more sample, it's going away. If inflation were the result, friends, there wouldn't be inflation in America. The dynamics of inflation sometimes vary; you have to see them. So in the U.S., it's 0.25 percent policy interest, 6-7 percent inflation, but you're looking at American bonds, two years, half points, five years, 1.1; ten years, 1.2; 1.3. American citizens and the whole world think, "Yes, interest rates are high in America today, but the U.S. government and the Fed will bring that interest down with their decisions." Because of this trust, the interest in American debt papers does not increase. What the hell are we doing? It's the other way around. What's our policy interest? 15%. Sir, what's our inflation? 21 percent. Under normal conditions, inflation is 21 per cent, but Turkey is able to fight inflation. So we should think that if we pay Turkey 10 per cent and 12 per cent, we'll make money if we get the paper. But our debt paper's interest is 22 per cent. By the time inflation reaches 30 percent of the year, we'll be in debt with 35 to 40 percent. Dear friends, you have to see this. So now I'm going to sing from the countries that Mr. Oktay said. It's Indian rupee... and there's negative real interest there. Our Turkish lira has lost 85% since the beginning of the year. If you buy it in March, it's 100%, but if you start the year, it's 85 percent. From the beginning of the year, only the courtship increase is in Indian rupee, there's 3%. Dear friends, 2 percent of Indonesian currency. Look, there's trust there, too. Mr. Oktay, you give samples in the wrong places, you don't study well; your examples give you away completely. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear friends, now, as long as I have time to assess the risks and assessments of macroeconomics, problem/crisis assessment, I'm going to make some evaluation. Now, we all know that the security environment in Turkey has completely disappeared, the uncertainty has reached its limit. When the suspense is high, it's the worst price, no matter what you look at, it's the worst price. Right now, there's no price. I mean, right now, you think the exporter likes these currencies. So today, you're going to connect, you don't know what's happening in the evening, you don't know why you're going to buy the raw material, you don't know why you're going to sell it. Where there's no price, there's no trade. Right now, the price in the economy is gone. The weakness of corporate capacity is Turkey's biggest problem, and the presidential government system has deepened that problem, dear friends. So in the event of a new power coming into this country, it's going to take a lot of time to increase this institutional capacity, to build up your reputation with confidence, because for 20 years -- I'm claiming that everywhere -- the AK PARTI governments, the most qualified institutions in this country, not random -- they've sunk them, not randomly, they've ruined those institutions. Growing up isn't unstable and inclusive. Look, look at the nine months -- ask the friends -- if I'm wrong, they'll talk after us, they'll say so themselves -- if we look back nine months, they get the lowest share after 2013, payers, friends, there's been a drop in wages since 2013. I mean, how can you say it's a good growth? The very important part of society is the working people, their wages, their share of the national income. You're looking at the agricultural sector, 5.9% smaller. So it's impossible to say that growth is balancing, inclusive. Dear friends, I don't know if they're doing it on purpose or not. For two months, Turkey's been giving too much money. They say it's like they're going to give too much money. Look, I'll give you an example. We've seen this overpaying story before, dear friends, in 1994, Turkey gave seven months in a row without interruption. 1994 what? It's the year of the crisis. In April 1998, 1999, Turkey overpaid for eight months in a row. He overpaid nine months in a row during March-December 2001. Five months in a row during June 2002. In July 2019, October, four months in a row, he overpaid. And you -- so some of that and some of that in your time -- you've overpaid twice. So, if you can't do a structural transformation in your economy, that's the current multi-crisis characteristic. And that's why we say that the economy of Turkey is in crisis, and because it's in crisis, you're giving it the extra. (APPLAUSE) If Turkey's economy normalizes tomorrow, all of these currents will go because Turkey's production capacity, exports will increase. You've taken no precautions, 600 billion dollars -- I insist -- if you bury it in stone, earth, concrete, it'll be too inevitable. Thus, in the coming days, the demand for foreign currency will increase even more. Dear friends, if credit enlargement is made... we'll see that in March of 2020, April of April, demand for a beating will increase. Look at the national revenue statistics, the stock's been melting for four quarters. People can't buy new ones, new ones are expensive, so companies make production by melting their stock. The exchange demand will also increase for the renovation of these stocks. Companies will raise foreign currency demands to close open positions, and foreign currency demands will increase as soon as they get the money. So you have to predict that the approximation is going to increase a lot more. The TL has been left vulnerable and unprotected, and there is nothing to defend it. Two instruments protect national money; one is interest, the other is reserve. Our reserves are still missing, $40 billion, and you're already using interest and interest weapons to shoot you in the foot. Therefore, Turkish lira is vulnerable. Unfortunately, you have no policy to prevent any further loss of Turkish lira. Inflation... inflation expectations are broken, the rope's loose, inflation's getting worse. Due to these temporary currencies, the price increases from foreign demand due to temporary increases in exports will also be highs that we will feel. In our country, there was always too much love, inflation. But at the moment, recent academic studies show that it has risen from 20 per cent to 50 per cent and that the increase in courtship is reflected in inflation within a year or two, dear friends. What I'm trying to say is that if you lose 10 percent of the value of the lottery, that's 5 points, that's 50 percent inflation. So it's been 85% since New Year's, the loss of value in the wolf, so we're going to feel as much inflation as half of that in a little while. Of course, TÜİK... you know, the fight against inflation has been left to TİKlK, and we don't know what the TÜİK will say anymore, but we're going to live with it as citizens, or rather, we'll see it in the Producing Price Index. THE TİK will inevitably have to explain these numbers eventually. Turkey's -- something else -- its charge of interest is growing rapidly, its overall economy is increasing, and the budget's charge of interest is increasing. Turkey is rapidly entering a budget deficit-borrowing-interest barren cycle, dear friends. Since there's no time, I won't be able to elaborate, but I'll tell you this much, if he takes the details, maybe we can talk later at the Treasury Department. Another risk is that the economy is trapped between interest and courtship, which we will experience more in the coming days. I'm not even afraid to say it, and I don't want to say it, but we also have to say that the balance of payments in Turkey is at hand. If these policies are not abandoned, if this ignorance, this stubbornness of choice is not abandoned, you will bring this country into a crisis of quick payment, my dear friends. A man of reason, a man of conscience is not listening to us, Mr. Erdogan, but perhaps he will listen to you; I beg you, warn him, if you love this country, warn him, there is a serious balance of payments coming. However, we face serious risks in the financial sector. Look, mark my words, the public bank's need for capital is growing daily, and Turkey will face additional risks if it is forced by private sector banks one day tomorrow. And then again, there's a lot of DTH in his speech on November 22nd, so there's a lot of foreign currency and a lot of money under the pillow. These people are thinking... everyone called us that day, they said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Look, we're being more responsible than power, it's not gonna happen. I mean, I wonder if there's a capital control coming up in Turkey. Everyone's starting to talk about it. He's afraid that this is where it's going to end up. Look, if there's a trend in the banks, we're not gonna be able to pull anything together. The banks' liquid money today is $28 billion, they're friends, but the banks have $260 billion in exchanges. If you can't increase confidence, if you make words and verbs that will whip insecurity, no one can recover it, God forbid. Business capital is rapidly melting, queues, shortages of goods, poverty, revenue distribution... the agricultural sector is a separate problem. The lack of hairiness of this fertilizer will make the agricultural sector's problems a little bigger in the coming period. Now that I'm going to say the facts, for God's sake, we've made 19 motions -- Mr. Customer -- and now we can't explain the details. They were all motions to solve a problem in society. Let's discuss this in one, take it to a government, take it to the President. He didn't have an attitude.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0069par0349	Mr. Master, wait a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0068par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. You're giving me an extra minute?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0069par0353	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0068par0354	Okay. So, we want to be supportive, this country is ours. Yeah, you're in power until people change it, we don't call it anything. We're trying to be supportive, and he doesn't listen to support, dear friends. Is that even possible? So if you're not doing it, at least we're thinking, we're working. Each one of them was processed motions, all 19 motions were rejected. Mr. President, Coral Akshener makes suggestions on a specific matter every week at a group meeting. You can use them, you can have them. You can have them, but no one uses them. We need to know with absolute certainty that the party presidency system is not good for us and that this system must be abandoned immediately. First of all, we need to stabilize the economy, trust is essential. You really need to run independent institutions independently. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, the last sentence...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0070par0359	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0068par0360	Efficiency is very important; the total factor is that growth from efficiency is almost zero in Turkey, sir, which should be bent on here. Poverty is a very urgent issue, a comprehensive anti-poorness programme must be implemented in Turkey because people no longer have the strength to endure. Finance policy must be transparencyd with absolute certainty. A stress test should also be conducted, focusing on the interaction between companies and banking. We should also open the distribution channels of our exports. There are global risks, and the variants that arise in the epidemic create additional risks. The interest increase in America is on the agenda. Entering this process with high inflation is another element of risk for Turkey. After all, we say: "We are ready, people of Turkey, we are ready; we solve Turkey's problems." I'm saying that clean staffs based on belief, knowledge, science can solve Turkey's problems. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0071par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0071par0367	The request is for Mr. Ismet Yilmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0368	Mr. President, thank you. Only when he spoke, he said: "Mr. President must present the budget, whereas the Civil Code, Article 62, is very clear; the vice president or minister, in order to conduct the budget presentation speech. Make no mistake, if our President had come here to present the budget, he would have said, "Mr. President has no authority to present it in the same language."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0073par0372	No.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0373	Therefore, we obey the Law, not what you say.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0073par0374	He's showing the minimum, he's showing the minimum.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0375	Again, Mr. President -- perhaps one more sentence -- was said in this Parliament: "This Parliament has no power. Can you say to the Parliament that, for God's sake, if you do not give the President the authority to issue a decree under the law, he is weak?" The President of the United States has the authority to issue a decree under the law, and our President has no authority to issue a decree under the law.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0074par0376	Do not covet America.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0075par0377	There's a separation of forces, a separation of forces.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0378	Mr. President, again, Mr. Minister, the People take the President to the election. People gave it to me, just like they gave it to Congress. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll complete it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0076par0381	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0382	Reverend President, the nation has authorized our president to take him to the election, as well as to bring him to the House. When it comes to the French Constitution, the French President has the authority to take Parliament to the elections, but he is standing where he is, and he is not going to the elections, but if he is taking us to the President's Assembly, he has to appear before the people himself. The people are judged by God. Can they say anything after they have been judged by God? What's wrong? If the nation decided in my direction, in my opinion, he did the right thing, if he didn't decide in my opinion, he did the wrong thing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0077par0383	It's true what people do, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0384	It's not possible to accept that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0077par0385	He will make you righteous when He brings you forth and when He sends you away, O people!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0386	Again, finally... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Another, one of our friends, said, "There is no outside altar." If imperialism is over, so is the outer altar.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0078par0389	No, sir, that's not what we're saying; it's been there a thousand years, it's been there a thousand years.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0390	Let's finish, please, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0072par0391	If the tools of imperialism have been destroyed, then I say it is unnecessary to say such a thing, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0392	Thank you. Dear friends...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0080par0394	Mr. President, can you open it? It's just...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0395	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0080par0396	Now, my dear President, from the time of the party presidency, we're having these budget talks, but the name of the system has changed, of course, we've given the President the power, but we haven't changed anything down there -- so it looks like Nasretttin Hoxha's shrine -- but this time, there's a owner of this budget; look, Mr. Oktay Plan and Budget, he's here, and he's here, and he's doing the presentation, but if there's a full defense from the AKTRTI Group, it's not healthy. So I invite all parties to follow the budget and budget production process and its rules and tradition. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0398	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0081par0399	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0400	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0081par0401	Mr. President, Mr. Group President's statements could leave a very wrong perception on record. The owner of the budget is the executive. You will go to the grounds of the material written in the harmonisation arrangements of the Interior Charter. It has been said over and over and over again that the Vice President submits a budget for the execution. If we write, only the income can speak here, or the Constitution says there is no possibility, but if the President wants to submit his budget to his question repeatedly, he will come to defend it; if he wants to defend it, he can't be banned from his assistant, who is entitled to it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0403	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0081par0404	The fact that Mr. Vice President came here to present the national budget, which was originally appointed contrary to the Constitution, was provided with the statement that he could do this in the Civil Charter, but it has been focused on many times, that he is the President of the United States, and that his deputy is entitled to it, and that he is not forbidden to it. If we accept these statements of yours, we will deny all the transcripts and the grounds for the amendment of the Civil Code. Please, let's make some more careful explanations based on information. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0406	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0082par0407	The Civil Code is open, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0079par0408	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0083par0409	Talk to me on the basis of the matter and the transcripts...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0082par0410	Sir, as a lawyer, as a law doctor, I'm saying that the Civil Code Article 2: ▪ The Vice President or a minister to conduct the presentation speech. It's very clear. If that doesn't make sense, then what does the vigilante mean, we'll look for motive. It's very clear, isn't it? Our vice president is presenting, very clear, very clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0083par0412	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0084par0413	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0085par0414	It can be opened. It says, "No, it's not true."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0086par0416	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0087par0417	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0088par0418	Dear friends, it's completely irrelevant. Here you go, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0087par0420	Mr. President, the situation here is that the President is being criticised for not owning his budget. The Vice President can't speak. No one can.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0089par0421	He's acting in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0087par0422	Why does the president not come and claim it? You say, "He can't come. If he can't come, let's see what's been said and what's written in the Civil Charter?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0089par0423	If he'd come, then I'd have found the relevant clause of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0087par0424	Then we'll talk.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit01spe0090par0425	Guys, okay, this is a separate discussion. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0090par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The commission is in place. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker is Deputy Director of the Group and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0091par0013	AK PARTY doesn't own the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0092par0014	Mr. President, we have begun negotiations with the Honourable MPs, the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 and the Central Management Law of 2020. I'm here to share the nationalist movement group's thoughts and opinions. I salute the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. As we begin with my words, I remember our ancestors, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, all our heroic martyrs who were buried for his country, the founder of our party, Basbug Alparslan Turkesh, with mercy and gratitude. In the plague, in the fire, in the earthquakes, in the floods, in the various accidents, I give my condolences to our citizens, our families, and our nation. Congratulating our legendary security forces in the fight against terrorism, we entrust each one to God. Mr. President, the honorable MPs are a law that demonstrates the state's annual revenues and expense projections and allows it to be implemented. The budget is also a means of monitoring the government for the nation through Parliament. Therefore, the budget must grasp the social truth, the full head, the full stomach, the happy tomorrow. With its password, it should shed light on the expectations of the Turkish nation. In 12 days of budget talks, the National Movement Party will consider how much people's money will be spent on what services. We're going to look at the expectations of our tradesman, our farmer, our worker, our officer, our industrialist, our pensioners, our young people, and all social communities. We will discuss the agenda of the world and the country with the perspective of yesterday, today, tomorrow on the scale of reason and conscience. By patiently and carefully following budget talks, we will share our thoughts with democratic maturity, objective and realistic assessments. Members of parliament, the Cumhur Alliance is an alliance of political virtues established in the denominator of Turkey and the Turkish nation. The Cumhur Alliance, an alliance of systems, successfully left five and a half years behind. The presidential government system, which completed its three-and-a-half years, ended political instability in the parliamentary system, and coup and custody interventions were lifted to the dusty shelves of history. The presidential government system was built on stability in governance, representation of justice, strong legislation, strong conduct, democratic reconciliation, political stability, balance and control mechanisms. Political stability has been achieved with the presidential government system, and strong execution has reached the goal of the strong Parliament. The basis for democratic legitimacy of this system is 50+1. Representing the executive with such a high proportion as 50+1 per cent has enabled the national will to be strongly investigated. This is a model of democracy that sets a precedent for the world. Turkey's Grand National Assembly currently has pluralism and representation with 14 parties, 5 groups and 5 independent MPs. With the June 24, 2018 elections, Turkey's Grand National Assembly received a stronger, more functional and more democratic structure in 101, and the voter will has found 99 per cent of its reflection in parliament. So 99 percent of the votes of our citizens are represented in our Parliament. Legislative and executive relations have been clear, the polls and legislation have been selected separately, and the separation of forces has become more evident, and both forces have been strengthened within themselves. With this system, balance and control mechanisms are also strengthened. The parliament is equipped with control power against the execution; the president has been made accountable to parliament. As some claim, there is neither a single man's regime nor an ineffective Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0093par0021	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0092par0022	On the contrary, our House has become the most effective and functional structure in history. (Applause from the AKP PARTY) Turkey is making up for its lost years with the Republic Alliance and the Presidential government system, and the great and powerful country is marching with confidence in Turkey's goals. Honourable MPs, security, justice and prosperity, these three elements are the prerequisite for being independent and powerful states, living in peace. Without security, there is no peace, there is no peace, there is no justice, and there is no prosperity. Therefore, terrorism that has cost the lives of tens of thousands of our people, which has prevented our country from making a breakthrough move, is one of Turkey's top priority issues. No country in the world has been the target of terrorism and collaborators as much as Turkey. At the same time, there is no other country outside Turkey that fights terrorism so effectively and successfully. The terror centers within our borders have been destroyed, and our cities, towns and villages, which have been called terror, have become places of peace. After July 15, 2016, our border security has been secured by the Firat Shield, the olive branch, the Peace Fountain, the Spring Shield, the Talons and Tiger Operations, and the terror corridor that was intended to be created has been eliminated. But we must always be alert to the efforts of the imperial focus and their local collaborators to emulate terror under different guises. We know who the countries that feed terrorist organizations with the Eğit-donat-attack policy are, the terrorists with the terrorist ties. We also know those who are trying to stop the fight against the Kurdistan Workers' Party and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). But all their efforts are in vain. Turkey is erasing terrorism with its password for "no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0094par0026	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0092par0027	Honourable lawmakers, the main point of politics is the peace of the nation, the country, the country, and the country. That's why we call it my country and nation, then my party and me. Those who collect political motivation from polemics, demagogues, lies, provocations, those who turn their back on foreign countries, terrorist organizations, global money brokers have lost their compass. Those who run Washington, Brussels and Kandil-based politics are clearly betrayed. There is no security of life and property in Turkey, no investments. Those who subcontract global traders are in agreement with ambassadors who wish to wave their fingers at Turkey. These collaborators tried to intimidate investors in their meetings with foreign ambassadors, in their letters, in Turkey. No matter how the power collapses or collapses, they are eager to create chaos by threatening and insulting this mindset teacher, the bureaucrat, the establishment, the tradesman, the farmer, the workers, the members of the judiciary. All they care about is making Turkey miserable in the international arena and causing chaos. Members of parliament, the world faces an important climate and environmental crisis. Because of industrialisation and the unconscious use of resources in terms of technological developments, climate and environmental crisis have become a global problem affecting all mankind. Western imperialism, along with the industrial revolution, has ruled over nature, exploiting nature as a meta. Turkish culture and civilization have an understanding that does not see nature and nature apart from man. Turkey is producing climate and environmental policies by commenting on the basic references of our civilization with a modern vision. In this scope, we consider the Green Covenant Action Plan, published by our Ministry of Commerce on July 14th, important to adapt to the green transformations in international trade and economy. Turkey's green development moves have been accelerated by the Paris Climate Agreement, approved by our Parliament on October 7, 2021. Instead of an economic understanding that aims to grow at the cost of destroying the environment, Turkey will take a leading role in the resolution of an understanding and climate crisis that monitors the rights of all living things on the environment. Members of parliament, Turkey is struggling hard in the economy because of the attacks by global money brokers and the pandemic of the coronavirus that has affected the world. Global money brokers have repeatedly targeted Turkey with weapons of currency, threats of foreign trade, high interest enforcement, intentional discounts. As you may recall, some foreign heads of state have made clear threats against Turkey's economy. He has imposed embargoes on our two ministers. Global money shooters and domestic collaborators continue to organise economic attacks. They're trying to create chaos, aimed at increasing exchange rate and inflation. We've been going through an extraordinary period for the past two years because of the outbreak of Covid (Covid)19. The epidemic has severely undermined macroeconomic balances around the world and the functioning of global trade. Because of the epidemic, budget deficits, debt, unemployment, and inflation have increased inequality of revenue distribution, and poverty have increased, price stability has deteriorated throughout the world. Many countries have implemented expanding finance and monetary policies to ease the economic impact of the epidemic. The world economy has entered a partial recovery of vaccine studies and restrictions, but economic uncertainty remains. Turkey successfully emerged from economic turbulence through economic and financial measures in its time for the epidemic, leaving other countries for the better. Despite the epidemic conditions, Turkey has grown 1.8 per cent in 2020, has become the fastest-growing country among the G20 countries, and in the first, second and third quarter of the year 2021, it has continued to grow, and Turkey has ranked one of the G20 countries in the third quarter. All data show that Turkey will grow by about 10% at the end of 2021, above the estimated 9% growth forecast in the OVP. In the third quarter growth, the positive impact of low interest, rising investment, employment-related production and export growth is evident. We are aware of the growing global uncertainty and inflation-related problems due to the Coronavirus epidemic. Turkey faces high inflation in terms of supply and cost. The exchange rate has increased unexpectedly, especially in dollars. Food prices, especially, are also expected to increase exorbitant prices. We know about the economic problems our citizens face, and we're aware of the complaints of increased exchange rates. High inflation continues to be a major problem not only in Turkey, but in the world; the fluctuations in the mmtia markets, the rapid increase in energy and raw materials prices, the glitches in logistics and supply chains are problematic areas, but there is no obstacle that we can't overcome by our ability to adapt rapidly to innovation, our strong industrial infrastructure, our grown workforce, our ability to adapt to innovations. Fighting inflation will be achieved with economic measures, including its supply-directional approach. In this direction, money and finance policies must be maintained in harmony and inflation must be reduced to one home; we believe it will be downloaded. The government implements the right economic policy. To create politics through current economic policies, we're finished, we're exhausted, we're ruined. Our government is on the side of our citizen with all its resources in this difficult process. Industrial investments and exports are breaking records, increasing economic growth, the record rise in export performance, the rise in industrial production, our country's rise in turbulence from the epidemic. Turkey will continue to grow through low interest, high investment, production, employment and exports. Cari's improvement in balance has contributed substantially to our country's need for foreign financing and to the closure of the structural current deficit. Cari operations balance must be permanently improved in the middle and long term. Despite the impact of the outbreak on global supply and demand, Turkey reached the highest export figures in the republic's history in the first ten months of 2021. Our 12 months of exports have exceeded $215 billion in October. The preliminary data on November shows that our exports continue to increase. In this success in export growth, it has been effective for our exporters and exporters to be able to use efficient exports, to respond to intensive demand increases, and to present quality goods to the market, and to use geographical advantages with competitive prices. It is clear that high interest will disrupt economic breakthroughs by damaging the production system in the long term, causing unemployment, poverty and the cost of life. Developments in macroeconomic indicators are flattering and promising, but in addition, the source of inflation is correct, and Turkey must get rid of its interest load. By gradually giving up high interest, increasing investment, production and employment, and reducing dependence on imports should be our main policy. It is imperative that financing to ensure high proportions and stable growth is provided from sustainable and sound sources. The main problem of the production structure of many emerging market economies, such as Turkey, is the import dependence on machinery, equipment and energy, along with the raw materials used in production and input. The dependence on external resources needs to be reduced and resources should be directed to high areas of revenue enhancement, employment provider and efficiency. The process of growth must continue under the leadership of production, exports and innovation. Our strong industrial infrastructure, our grown-up workforce, our ability to adapt to innovations are available. Justice and competence in resource distribution should increase efficiency in service production. In this context, programmes for tax reductions and ease for investors and entrepreneurs must be implemented. Turkey must become a global base in the value of cutting-edge and high-tech production. Reverend lawmakers, it's a lie to claim that the economy is sinking by simply reviewing dollars dry and interest, it's black propaganda. (MHP and AK PARTY) Some focal points exploit artificial fluctuations that are incompatible with the economic facts of the exchange rate, as if they're ringing and playing; and those who ring the bell and play the bell are the extensions of external forces. They're trying to manipulate our citizens into pessimism, despair, and the blind darkness of the streets by setting up these centers, interest and prices, through the general level of imbalances. While exports, jobs and production data in the economy were good, when positive data came from markets, what happened was suddenly the dollar went up to 13 euros; in which mountain the wolf died and we didn't know. They're trying to make us pay for our national interests with an increased exchange rate. They're trying to get a rematch of our anti-terrorism fight on the court. The foreign currency operations of interest lobbying, the dream of creating chaos is futile of IMF-based focals that are secretly lobbying interest. The raise of dollars is entirely due to psychological perception operations, and there's no such thing as a crisis environment -- when there's positive data that we're counting on. Production in industry and agriculture continues, trade runs. No factory has ever produced workers, but employment continues to increase. Turkey is a regional and global actor who has developed a modern political vision of thousands of years of state and civilization. Turkey has its own agenda. Turkey will certainly build its national economy, offering the global economy a model that will bring people to the centre. The colonial and imperialist Western paradigm has collapsed. The new century will be marked by Turkey's righteous and righteous philosophy. Turkey will not surrender to global capital assassins and money barons. Turkey will never submit to foreign currency sabotage and the cost of life. You will no longer be able to establish a hierarchical relationship with us, with Turkey. We reject the roles you've cast on us, the blocks you're trying to trap us in. We have no eyes for any country, its law, its land, but we do not feed or violate our rights, nor do we ever submit. As the National Movement Party, we will contribute and support every step to the well-being and well-being of the Turkish nation. Honourable lawmakers have had direct negative effects on production and labour markets. In 2021, production and employment deficits continue in many countries. However, production and employment have increased significantly since the second half of 2020, under the influence of measures taken in Turkey. Turkey rose above the pre-infected period with 2.2 million jobs during the January-September 2021 period. Since the beginning of the outbreak, the number of registered employment in the manufacturing sector has exceeded 4,700,000, but industry businesses, SMEs and our tradesmen complain that they can't find enough qualified and intersect; apprentices, Kalfa and masters. Members of lawmakers, we feel that in economics and social areas, the solution to our country's structural problems should be encouraged, promoted and encouraged by vocational education. We see vocational education strategically in the future of our country. Currently, 19 million of our children are studying in the first and middle school, and 8 million of our young people are studying in higher education. In our 84 million population, we have 27 million young people who have been taught, what value, what blessing, what potential, in terms of our country's dynamics and energy. These young people expect jobs and futures in the near future. It will give our young people a huge boost to the economic and social development of Turkey, where they will be trained and raised from a younger age. Turkey will be free of the danger of becoming an army of unemployed and young unemployed in the near future, thanks to vocational training. On October 11, 2021, we find it important for our President, Mr. Erdogan, to announce and give good news at the opening ceremony of the 1,000 School Projects for Education and 50 RD headquarters. I congratulate our Ministry of National Education and our President for these important breakthroughs. The country that breeds Turkey, Turkey, I want to share with you some of our ideas and suggestions on professional education, not to achieve strong industrial, strong economic goals and seek jobs, but to raise the sought generation at work. The work on promoting, promoting, and encouraging vocational education should be carried out in the form of a national mobilisation. In vocational education, school-based and workplace-based models must be combined to form a binary training model. The number of vocational education schools must be increased and quality upgraded. Teachers who provide vocational training with technology must be employed, teachers must be required to receive service training. The share of vocational education must be raised from 35 per cent to 70 per cent. The number and quality of vocational education centres that provide traditional apprenticeship, phalanx, mastery training should also be encouraged. A sectoral structure must be established between vocational education centres and industry and SMEs. Occupational schools and vocational education centres must be grouped at the sector's location and according to the sector's needs. Schools of vocational education and encouragement of students and parents should be started from elementary school, and vocational schools should be made to be preferred by students who get higher grades in exams. Today, vocational upper secondary schools have the image of low-quality education, college-bound school. This image must be changed, the way of the university must be applied to vocational education. In college exams, additional points must be applied to students who prefer their own fields. In vocational educational institutions, successful students should receive scholarship support and graduates should be given priority in employment. The vocational and technical secondary schools and vocational universities of applied sciences must be integrated, and the relationship between working life and professional technical education must be developed. All tools and machines of vocational high schools must be upgraded according to the conditions of time, and workshops and labs must be modernised. In determining the content of vocational education programmes, the student guidance and direction should increase the effectiveness of organised industrial areas and vocational rooms. With the spread of vocational schools, industry and production will gain momentum, the country that produces Turkey, we believe that strong economics and strong industrial goals will be achieved in a much more comfortable way. The honorable MPs bear witness to the rise of the 21st century Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation. In this direction, the vision of the Organization of the Turkish States, which will seal its seal for the next centuries, is very important in the language, in its opinion, with the union password. The Turkish Council, founded in 1992 as an international organization in 2009, became the Turkish State Organization at the summit held in Istanbul on November 12, 2021. May the Turkish State Organization be a gift to the Turkish world and to the whole world. The Turkish World's 2040 Vision Document, which was adopted at the summit, and steps on the Global and Regional Way Map of the Agency of the Turkish States, 2022-2026, will determine the direction of the future centuries. Members of parliament, we will work tirelessly, tirelessly, tirelessly, tirelessly for the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation. With these thoughts, we will vote positively for the budget of 2022 as the National Movement Party, wishing that the budget would be good for our country, and I salute your grand delegation and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0095par0042	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the 2nd speaker, Deputy Leader of the Group, and Mr. Muhammad Levent Nightingale. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Here you go, Mr. Nightingale, your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0096par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law and the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal on the entire bill. At the beginning of my speech, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. President, the budget is a ruler that shows the mutual projections of the state's revenues and expenses predicted for a period of time in the future. The budget is a ruler of revenue and expense projections, but it is also a law and a legal document that allows the decision taken by the legislature to conduct it on behalf of the nation at the point of spending and collecting revenues. With the legislative body accepting the budget law proposal, budgetary rights are granted, which allows the right and authorized administration to be audited. The budget aims to ensure effective allocation of resources, justice and economic stability in the distribution of revenues. Mr. President, the budget for 2022 is the fourth budget of the presidential government system. I'd like to say that we, the MHP Group, have found and supported the budget law proposal. In a general view of the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, with a budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget for 2022, it is estimated that 1 trillion 751 billion dollars is estimated to be $278.4 billion, with an increase of 33.7 per cent of budget revenues, 1 trillion 472.6 billion, and the tax revenues are estimated to be 1 trillion 258.3 billion, and the budget deficit is estimated to be $278.4 billion. According to 2021, budget funds in 2022 increased by 30.1 per cent, which was estimated to amount to about 404.8 billion dollars. Because of Covid-19 global epidemics in 2019, all countries around the world are suffering particularly financially, public finances are shaking. In order to limit the health crisis with the outbreak of the epidemic, restrictions have been taken around the world, economic activities and trade volumes have declined on a historical level, and unemployment rates have increased in parallel. Partial or complete closure practices have been particularly effective on the service sector, and there have been significant variations in the growth rates of manufacturing and service sectors worldwide. The countries implementing economic incentive packages have tried to support their economies with money and finance policies. The demand increases in economies, which tend to recuperate after expanding money and finance policies, aimed at revitalising the economy, brought inflationist pressures. There are serious increases and expectations in global inflation during a process in which oil prices, particularly energy prices increase, supply and demand-related imbalances increase prices, food prices increase due to droughts, supply chains fail due to closures in the economy and transport due to the drought, and logistical problems. In 2021, global inflation is expected to reach the highest level of 4.3 per cent in the last decade. In advanced economies, for example, 5.2 per cent to Germany; 5.6 per cent in Spain; 6.2 per cent in the United States is the highest inflation of the last 30 years. In these current conditions, inflation appears to be increasing, of course, in our country. As part of the fight against inflation, it is important to maintain money and finance policies co-directionally, to block negatives that lead to imbalances at supply and demand point, to avoid activities known as hoarding, to prevent unfair price hikes, and ultimately to reduce inflation to one-digit figures. We believe that any further commercial and financial measures should be taken, including the release of new support packages, in order to ensure the price stability and not be crushed by inflation by our employees. At this point, during the beginning of the minimum wage talks, we will protect our President's workers from price hikes, and we will provide an increase in the scale of the increases so far. We will also promote and promote prosperity with our economic investments, employment, production, exports and growth-based new programme. We also find and support statements that he has made. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we are pleased to observe that there have been positive developments in our economy in the process of the global pandemic. In the first quarter of 2021, 7.2 per cent of the first quarter, and in the second quarter, 21.7 per cent of the growth rate has reached its highest since 1999, and we are ranked second in line among the OECD countries after the United Kingdom. As of the third quarter of 2021, our country has grown by 7.4 percent, and by the end of the year, growth is expected to be at least 10 per cent. According to the new economic programme, the budget deficit, envisioned at 4.3 per cent for the end of 2021, is likely to be revised and closed at a rate of less than 3.5 per cent for the end of 2021. This shows that Turkey has strong public finances for many countries around the world. In the third quarter of 2021, however, employment rate increased by 2.8 per cent in the same quarter of the previous year, increasing by 2m28,000 people, increasing by 29,652,000 people. Again, from the last quarter of 2019, the growing machine equipment investments increased by 35.2 per cent in the last quarter, and as of the third quarter, the production industry's share of exports reached 95 per cent. According to annual export figures, it took place at the highest levels in its history as of November -- around 220 billion dollars -- our share of the world's trade for the first time increased to over 1 per cent, and our foreign trade deficit was reduced to $13.2.2 billion in the same period of January-November, compared to the same period of 2020. Last year's foreign trade volume increased by 29.63 per cent to 48 billion, 263 million dollars, while January-November exports rose by 6.8 points to 83.8 per cent compared to last year's imports, and was seen to be 98.3% except energy. It is very important to promote the national and domestic industry, especially with the cooperation of the university, industry and trade chambers, with the participation of all partners, by supporting the SMEs in such a process, when our foreign trade deficit has decreased, our exports have increased and interest has fallen. Again, in the manufacturing industry, the understanding of economics based on production, investment, employment and exports, along with increasing use of domestic property, encouraging production and export of high-tech and high-end products. We think that high interest is not going to be a friend of the production and employment-based economy, and we also care about lowering interest rates in order to create a relief from the supply front, especially in order to increase investments and employment. Our investors must rely on their country and the investment initiatives to be supported by our government without giving opportunity to lobbyists serving interest and currencies in our economy. Mr. President, the presidential government system, which has been adopted by our nation's appreciation and gratitude and has been implemented as of July 9, 2018, has begun to yield results from the moment it has begun to be implemented. With this system, our government has a rapid and efficient decision-making mechanism. With the existence of the presidential government system, quick and effective solutions have been created to the problems our country faces. The post-election debates, political crises, and possible attempts to block democracy that we're used to in the previous system are history. Political stability is vital in the process we're in. We see that even in the largest countries in the world, coalitions can't be formed and governments can't be formed for months. Our country cannot tolerate a day of political uncertainty, let alone months of political uncertainty. With national issues that concern our country's independence, quick and effective measures have been created by the government in the process of global economic attacks on our country right after the June 24th elections and in the pandemic process against unexpected developments in economics, security, health. The impact and accuracy of these measures can be much better understood today. The opportunities and abilities that the executive has won with the government system have undoubtedly played an important role in its ability to make moves in the position of the administration to take positions against these problems and attacks. The actions of our state, acting on the axis of national policies, have also been met by our nation, supported by great humility. Our government has made its transition to the new system smoothly and continues to do so. At every opportunity, we say that the new system, which we refer to as the Turkish-type presidential system, must be established by all institutions and rules. In this context, we think it would be helpful to repeat our proposal of six main topics that our party had previously shared with the public. In this regard, the amendment of the Political Party Act, the necessary regulations in the Election Law, the review and rewrote of the Turkish National Assembly, the meeting of expectations for parliamentary immunity, political ethical law and the swift implementation of legal regulations on public institutional institutions will serve to establish the institution and rules of the presidency's governing system. On the other hand, as the National Movement Party, we believe that it is not more than a choice to bring a new community contract into our nation in the 100th year of the republic, but a moral and national responsibility. We believe that a new and civil constitution, which reflects our own spirit roots, is unique only to us and will serve as a bridge between our past and our future, is essential. First of all, we think that it would be a great service to the idea of the 21st century of Leader Country Turkey to create a new and civil constitution for our age's state order, human rights, democratic achievements and understanding of law. The draft of the 100-point constitutional proposal in the 100th year of our republic, designed to adapt the state and nation contract to the needs of the age, to establish a new and civil constitution that addresses the need of society and to fully establish the presidential government system, was shared with the public on 4 May 2021 by our President, Mr. State Gardener. In our draft constitution proposal, we have new suggestions on many issues that will be considered important in the lives of the nation and state. In the coming period, we will continue to contribute to the establishment of a joint agreement as a member of the National Movement Party and the Cumhur Alliance, especially as part of new constitutional studies, and to the establishment and development of this settlement and consultation ground in Turkey. At this stage, we expect political parties to act responsibly and with that understanding ask for a new constitution. What kind of constitution do we want by abandoning dry speech? Mr. President, valued lawmakers have passed five judicial packages from our Parliament and have reached 62 per cent in the past year, following the Judicial Reform Strategy Document announced by our President on May 30, 2019. Again, there was a 35 per cent fulfillment of the Human Rights Action Plan, which was announced on March 2, 2021, and was planned to be carried out by 2023. The development and development of rights and freedoms in the implementation of the Judiciary Reform Strategy was intended to be the primary method of protecting and establishing the rights and freedoms, organizing internet access blockers, providing geographical guarantees to judges and prosecutors, changing their education period in law schools, and simplifying administrative trial. The rights and freedoms of the first judiciary package have been extended by the second judicial package, providing ease in the execution system, providing important simplifications in the third judicial package, strengthening rights such as the right not to be smeared with the fourth judicial package, while implementing methods of human-focused justice, which have long been on the agenda and have injured consciences, according to the execution of children. On the other hand, there are activities discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which have been carried out by the administration and carried out by the decision and regulations taken out by the law-run judicial package. In this framework, the number of district court courts has been reduced from 18 per cent to 8 per cent of the VAT rate in some of our citizens' litigation services in order to bring the number of judges and Prosecutors' Board of Appeals and the establishment of Performance Measurement and Surveillance Centre, to provide information, guidance and psychosocial support services during the judicial process. Again, a court that serves twenty-four hours as the first in the world in practice opened at Istanbul Airport. It is crucial that an application that accelerates and facilitates our citizen's access to justice has been implemented. These developments are certainly and certainly reformable, and are important steps taken in the process of this new system of governance. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have supported the legal reformed judicial packages in our parliament as the National Movement Party to strengthen the justice mechanism and at the point of service to our citizens, in order for the judicial system to meet higher standards. In the coming process, we will continue to help strengthen our justice mechanism with precision, by actively taking steps towards the use of information technologies that will enable this process by making arrangements for courts to make independent, neutral, fast, and correct decisions. We see our country is beginning to increase national and domestic investments in all areas. There have been major breakthroughs in the field of defense industry in recent years. As a result of national and domestic production, many weapons, ammunition and vehicles such as the National Infantry rifle, Storm Obus Cannons, the national drones, SIHA and TIHAs, Atac Helicopters, Altay tank, Dragon, Porcupine have entered the inventory of our Turkish Armed Forces or will soon enter. For the first time, Turkey and the Milgem, a national ship project in the sea, carried out the design of a Korvet-type military ship as a national and gave it to our Navy. MILDEN national submarine and TCG, also known in public as the aircraft ship, are reported to be nearing the end of the project in Anatolia, a multi-purpose amphibious amphibious attack ship. HURDER, HURJET, National Disposal Plane, ATAK-2 helicopter, trench high-altitude air defence projects have taken significant distances, and I hope that in the next five or six years, these weapons will be included in the inventory of our country's armed forces. The achievements in the field of defence industry, which has reached 80 percent and is involved in domestic production, have also affected our country's trade relations, and exports have increased significantly. In an environment where defence spending is increasing in the world, especially in our region, there are reasons for strengthening our national defence, such as tensions, financial and arms aid to terrorism, and the hostile behavior and arms race of neighbouring countries such as Greece. We will continue to support the work that will be done at this point in order for our defense industry to get better. Mr. President, with the right of self-defense in the 51st article of the United Nations Convention, Operation Idlib was launched on 8 October 2017, and then launched on 27 February 2020, the last operation launched as Operation Spring Shield, which was called Operation Spring Shield on 20 January 2018, in order to remove DEAŞ from our borders. In these operations, great achievements have been achieved, a corridor of terror has been prevented from forming at our borders, preventing possible new migration waves, and terrorism has not been tolerated. As part of these operations, 4,000 DEASH terrorists have been neutralized, food benefits for people living in the region, services for education and healthcare, and the region has been rebuilt, rebuilt, built and committed with the presence of the Turkish army. With these operations, security on our borders has been aimed at increasing, and other measures have only prevented the passage of 261,137 immigrants over the past year. As a result of these operations, the peace and stability of the region has brought about 1 million Syrians, volunteers, and safe returns to their homeland. Once again, we express our support for these actions at the point of peace and security of our country, and we thank our veterans with mercy and gratitude for all our fallen heroes in these actions. Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, we believe that the Syrian people who have temporary housing status in our country must return safely, safely and voluntarily to their country. There's no way we're gonna tolerate our country becoming an immigrant camp and demographic failure. In the words of our President, Mr. State Gardener, we are obliged to protect our population. We believe that a demographic projection should be prepared for the next 50 years, for the next 100 years. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in our increasingly peaceful world, Covid-19 epidemics, or pandemics, have categorized the present ambiguities. Massive tensions in different parts of the world have exposed long-term low-intensity conflicts; migration, hunger, natural disasters, climate changes, power wars and terrorism, with all its distortions, all its dysfunctions, all its dysfunctions, the dysfunction of the international system, which emerged after World War II. Under the circumstances, it is imperative that we get rid of the sediment left in our minds by the cold war period in foreign policy and international relations. Power struggles and competitiveness, which have gained global speed, nullify the principles and rules that have been established. We're in a process where countries can go through radical changes in their foreign policy in very short periods of time, where inconsistencies and irregularities are a rule. In a conjunctural like this, in our geography, the cracks in different civilization's basins threaten our safety and our existence. Turkey has no choice but to become stronger and stronger in this incident. The terror and irregular migratory movements we've been fighting for over 40 years bring about security in our foreign policy. Turkey must read well about the rapid change in its region and the world, and it must make good use of its opportunities. Our country must be determined to be intelligent in the global sense that it is able to apply and neglect the elements of hard power while using its soft force to assess human-based, entrepreneurial foreign policy. Although Turkey has been in the center of the Balkans, Caucasus and Middle East, known as the world's most troubled and warm conflict zones, its economy and army have been among the great and powerful countries of the world, despite its dependence on energy resources so far. We certainly know that we owe it to our thousands of years of long-standing government tradition, our dynamic population, our people's morality, their hard work, and our democratic state structure. We say that the 21st century has promised Turkey and the Turkish nation great opportunities at every opportunity. We sincerely believe that the 21st century will be the Turkish century. We are also aware that Turkey has walked with great determination in its understanding of the Cumhur Alliance. Today, our country is a powerful country, not only in its territory, but on a global scale, highly respected, well-respected.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0097par0074	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0096par0075	In spite of the willing collaborators trying to discredit our country with literature, Turkey's increasing capacity has been making powerful moves from Africa to Asia all over the world with its effective foreign policy.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0097par0076	Well done.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0096par0077	Through foreign diplomatic missions, which ranked as the sixth most foreign representative in the world, the Maarif Foundation, the Dolphin Emre Institute, the TİKA, and our institutions, along with the President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, have established an effective diplomacy. The increase in Turkey's capacity is undoubtedly making threats and dangers directed at it multidimensional and multi-dimensional. Hostile activities against our country's rights and interests, especially in countries in which we have an alliance and even strategic public relations continue to increase. A growing threat to our country by the United States and EU countries has become quite remarkable and alarming to our President and to the Cumhur Alliance. Following this unjust attitude lies the assessments of Turkey's decision to be an unpredictable country, as the former US Secretary of State Pompeo (Secretary Secretary of State), who can make its own decisions. In fact, Turkey has always been a reliable ally as a country measuring its steps as a country of legitimacy. At this point, unfortunately, Turkey has always been responsible for injustice and hypocrisy in its territory. But Islam and Turkish hostility, which the West cannot extract from its subconscious, objectively prevents it from approaching matters with justice, poisons our relations. The late writer Raif Montenegro describes this situation as follows: "Salib's rage and hatred are not over. Stefan Zweig, who wrote a book before his foot was dusted, as soon as he stepped into the U.S., which he had defected from his occupied home of Hungary, presented it as the most obvious and non-refutable event in his book The History Star was translated as The Moments Shined. Muharrir made the first bet of his work in the conquest of Istanbul and called on all his followers to mobilise. Stefan Zweig says, "O Christian people, wake up. The gold cross that the barbarians brought down from Ayasophia is crawling on the ground. This is the time to take the cross from there and put it back. This is the background of Salib's actions in this direction, where he says that he will do anything to overthrow the President of the United States, and that he will have direct relations with the opposition. That's why CAATSA sanctions, we've been removed from Project F-35, and terrorist organizations on our borders are arrogantly supported by heavy weapons. That's why the French president, who insinuated the oppressed in the world with his imperialist understanding, took arrogant steps against the Muslims, against Turkey. This is the cause of concern for the expansion of the influence field of Turkey, which is a sincere, fair country and politics in Africa. This is the reason why the terrorist Armenia administration was given unconditional support in the Battle of Karabagan, where they tried to destroy civilian settlements in Azerbaijan without blinking. It is subconsciously the issue behind Greece's pressure on Turkey through Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean, the fact that our NATO allies have co-operation agreements with the United States and France against Turkey, that Greece has become a US base, as it were. The power of Turkey and the Turkish nation is the nightmare of the countries in which this mentality is represented. To them, the Turks must be torn apart and removed from Anatolia.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0098par0080	Mr. Nightingale, just a moment...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0096par0081	I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0098par0082	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0096par0083	Otherwise, their games will be deciphered; their oppressed nations, their weak states, will not be able to maintain their desire for exploitation. We are aware of the struggle and the reckoning, and we will not back down no matter what the outcome. (MHP and AK PARTY) We are willing to fight not only with external powers, but with his local collaborators, and we will do so with the right. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Mr. President, with the determination of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to achieve the level of conflictal civilisations, we will work our best to bring Turkey, a great and powerful union, to its goals of 2023,2053 and 2071. We believe that the 21st century will be a Turkish century. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With the understanding of the Cumhur Alliance, we will gradually build the infrastructure of the vision of 2053 and 2071, which will make Turkey, the only hope of all the oppressed nations, guarantee of world peace and justice for centuries. The late opinion and the caseman Dündar Taşer (Turkish)'s charm ended in Sakarya. We're trying to enter a new era of meds. This will be med, and the Turkish nation will have its former glory. We are in the throes and anguish of this. We see that the difficult days of his detection and expression were left behind by the will of the Lord of God. Turkey has a bright future. With the union of the nation, our tomorrows are light, by the permission of God. We believe and trust the high choice of the Turkish nation, as a matter of fact. With these thoughts, I wish our budget to be good, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0099par0090	Thank you. Dear friends, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first speaker is Co-Chair and İstanbul MP Mr. Pervin Buldan. Here you go, Mr. Buldan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0100par0095	Mr. President, Mr. General Assembly and our dear people who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, I salute you with love. I salute my beloved Figen Yüksekdağ, beloved Selahtin Demirtaş, Sebahat Tucsoni, İdris Balukenak, Gültan Kışanak, Leyla Güveni, Ayşe Gökkan, Aysel Tuğluk, Ayla Akat, and all our friends from here with respect and love. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Congressmans, the budget we are meeting today is not the budget of the people who are looking to make a living, but the budget of a government that is concerned about elections; it is a budget that is free of public budget rights, free of accession, prepared according to the court's orders and wishes. All of our group's amendments to the budget, especially the minimum wage increase, have been rejected because this budget is the budget of your protestive power. This is not a budget for raising bread, it is a budget for reducing bread at the public table, for raising poverty and hunger. This budget is a budget of increasing injustice and inequality; it is a budget that loosens the belt to the palace, and a budget that tightens the belt to the ring. It is the rejection budget of the single system that rejects the demands of social peace and the plurality of this country. It is the budget of men's order that rejects women and demand for equality, and that budget is the last budget of your power, the budget of your non-returning departure. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The point we've come to is that the demands and needs of the Turkish community and the preferences of your power are sharply divided. The people's demand is peace, prosperity, justice, equality of income, social peace, freedom, freedom, a democratic system to be trusted; the goal of your power is to extend the life of a corrupt, authoritarian, multi-crisis system a little longer. In the face of a massive hunger for economic and social collapse, the rise of the people, the rise, the flight envy, an understanding that seeks to secure the seat of the ruling supporters has already been cut off from this country, from the public, from the street, from the reality of the street. After Tanzim's tails, a country where the public enters the breadlines, baby food is handcuffed to the shelves, hunger, misery walks around, butchers are only looked through their windows, a summary of your power. The quotas placed in the markets are a result of bankruptcy, collapse, a photograph of everything you do until you reach basic foods, electricity, water, gas, gasoline to continue your palace enjoyment. People who commit suicide from unemployment, young people who die in constructions, who don't have an appointment, students who can't find a home, farmers who are thrown into prison because of debt, young people whose future is stolen every day, unemployed fathers who can go home after their children are asleep, poor people who are thrown out on the streets are the sum of your power. When the people are in poverty, your TUGVA is a summary of your power, your torpedoed appointments, your double wages, your endless waste of palaces, and your tax forgiveness to your 5-leading gang. Pandemide is a summary of your people's power in the fire, in the flood, in the earthquake, where you leave their fate alone, where you throw tea at them instead of support. We're going through days of famine on the streets. It's your power that's made the country this way, not the outside forces, it's you. You've made this country, this fertile country, which has enough resources for everyone, depend on agriculture, livestock, food. Instead of the calluses, you replaced your proprietary importers, your importing ports, instead of the fertile land. On the one hand, this country is in abundance. You wrapped it up in a lie, and on the other hand, you turned a country with a grain barn into an import warehouse. Just recently, you've been bidding on $285 million worth of wheat, barley, oil. You've gone down in history as a power that turns hunger into a tender and creates import rich people. The same mentality is that we are not going to go up and down on interest. It says that the interest debt you put on the citizens' back in the 2022 budget is 240 billion. Your tongue reduces interest, and your hand increases interest. If Nas is in the middle, erase the high debt interest you received from the first state, the student, the farmer, the debtor citizen right now. Does Nas apply to citizens or not? As for yourself, when it comes to citizens, stop offering bitter prescriptions. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The poverty limit of a family of four reached $10,396. The wealth limit of your palace is 128 billion dollars. The hunger limit is past minimum wage. Today, the hunger limit is $3.192, and your power's food limit is double, or even three, or five salaries. This is the country you've created. Your presidential government system is a high profit, high inflation, high interest debt, high unemployment, high poverty system. You can't write your book, but you make up your own book of interest, interest, and corruption. That is your budget. No harm, the worst is behind us. Turkey is on its way. The result, as you call it, is obvious. It's a total domestic and national collapse. The economy in which you make the United Arab Emirates a trustee is rapidly collapsing. Your system of government, which has become unfair and workless, is the cause, and the result of the people who have been left out of work. The limited waste of your palaces is the result of the total bankruptcy of the country. The money you spend on the Syrian war, on the gangs, on the S-400, on the 2022 budget is 246 billion reasons you spend on security policies, bread lines, unemployment suicides, and lives that have gone black. And you say the battle for economic salvation, yes, yours is the battle for saving the only man, not the economy. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) I say this: The final of your war will never, ever be like the final of the film "Save Private Ryan." For your concern is not the welfare of the citizen, but how do we win the election? It's not about inflation, unemployment, lowering the cost of life, it's about lowering the 50+1. Your purpose is not the peace of the citizen, but the right of your followers to peace. You don't want to increase people's vaccines, you want to increase your double salary. Your goal is not to erase the debt of the citizen, but to nullify the tax debts of your 5-alarm gang. Your goal is not to create jobs for young people, but to put your spouse, friends, relatives in public. Your goal is not to obey the law, but to adapt the law to yourself. Now that you're done pulling rabbits out of hats, my dear friends, the hat is empty because you're stealing rabbits. [[Applause from HDP rows]] It's futile to expect different results by changing the president of the Central Bank, the treasure minister, often without changing your mindset. As Einstein put it, the mindset that raises a problem can never solve that problem. (TÜİKbook's lying figures aside, true inflation in the public's kitchen is now 60 per cent. The AKP's President, he says, "You'll see, pre-election inflation will fall." Yes, we'll see two dropouts: first we'll see your power fall in the chest, then we'll see inflation fall in the kitchen, dear people. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Both your lies and lies will never be enough to save you. We're going to do it, our laboring, poor peoples you're moaning about under inflation will do it. Yes, my fellow lawmakers, if there is no permanent peace in a country, if democracy faces political coup practice every day, there is no stability and security in that country if there is no balance control, democratic debate ground, justice, law, and there is no economic stability. First of all, if the system is closed to democracy, the people are exclusing its will, if it rejects pluralism, it can't go straight. The collapse we're experiencing today is a major democratic crisis, a multipolitic crisis created by the ruling partners. It is the main cause of a political crisis that narrows down social space as much as possible, tries to destroy democratic civilian politics, and in the face of that, deepens authoritarian power by expanding it massively. With absolute power and authority, the ceberut is the cause of the crisis of understanding that divides resources into military, security policies to sustain this order. We know, of course, that as the new owners of one century of monogamy, ingratitude, authoritarian system, guardianship, and status quo, you are in the struggle to sustain this system for another century. Your system is a wall built to ensure that all the founding people of this country, all the other peoples, the ones that are wanted to be singled out, the faiths, the poor, the workers, do not have a say in the government of the country, that there is no new life and a democratic future based on equal partnership. This is a system in which both the Kurds and Alevi (Alemi) and the Arab (Arab) and the Suryani are not equal, neither are the Romans, neither are the Romans, neither are the Lazke, nor are the Jews, nor are the Christians, on the basis of the rights and identities. You can't take this system and scald it by saying the rapid decision-making mechanism, etcetera, etcetera. The public knows what your quick decisions are. Your swift decision is to align the people with sticks and fear; it is the decision of citizens to suppress and crush their rights; it is the decision to block women's demand for equality; it is the decision to close the door of justice for those seeking justice; it is the decision not to conduct true justice in Roboski, Soma. A mother, Emine Shenyashar, who was slain before her eyes, and her two sons and his wife, sought justice in the streets and in consciences for months. You have turned the ancient city of the prophets to a barren land, where justice is buried, and you have buried justice under the tracks of the Syrians, which Israel has sought for three years. By obstructing their mother's struggle for justice and truth on Saturday, you had the darkness of silence of the 1990s. Here is a summary of your rule and order of the mothers who share the common conscience of Turkey. You've polarized society, you've camped the country, you've polarized it with segregation, you've given it away, you've made it a target, you've made it a threat. We and they turned their backs on each other, and they tried to create, and you targeted common values with the sense of them. Yes, an immoral political concept destroys both society and the country, and destroys the political institution. Now, the politics you're running today are based entirely on an understanding of the system that destroys the consumer society. Politics -- when tried -- is the policy of lies that Turkey's people experience with their testimony; it's fraud and plunder, yes, it's nepotism, it's power, it's partisanism, it's rights and it's rights and it's power wealth. With the system you're trying to institutionalize, we see that you're trying to implement the party state, the party judiciary, the party institutions, the party bureaucracy, the party media project step by step, and we know. Every day you feed on the policy of conflict in domestic politics, foreign policy, everywhere to prolong the life of an enemy-producing, non-enemy, security system. You're in the middle of a dispersal, imperial delusion. We're going to ruin the game. You've broken your own country with the wrong policies you've followed. You've turned country money into stamps when you waved your fingers here and there. You've become an international crisis opportunist, you've raised the crisis in your own country. The Kurds must not breathe freely anywhere. You have committed Kurdish hostility everywhere. By combat policy, you made Turkey unable to breathe. You've lost to Turkey by the Kurdish policy of losing, and you've lost a great deal. Those who do not have peace courses will never escape crisis and instability. You re-established the National Security Council in order to conduct economic policy in a police manner. However, if you want to see one of the causes of economic destruction, you just need to look at the meeting of the National Security Council in December 2014, where you decided to end the solution process, and that's when you laid down one of the foundations of the collapse. Today's destruction is not caused by product hoarding; it is the war and crisis hoarding of your power; it is hate, hatred, and enemy hoarding. The national income, which is 12,000 dollars in the solution process, is down to 8,000 dollars today, my dear friends, and you spent $4,000 per person on war. However, in the process of resolving, the economy was growing, and democracy was developing. If peace efforts grow, the economy will grow, and stability will develop, and when you expand the war, you will drag the economy to the ground. If allowed, I will resolve this problem in a week. You have responded in isolation to the call of Mr. Ocalan. You've expanded the inconsistencies with unlawful opinion, obstructions. The result is Turkey, which is solved in every way. Inside, the door to peace is the cause; outside, the door to which you hope to help internationally, the door to which you are held for hours is the result. The solution in 2013 is a rejection of the will, while the collapse of 2021 Turkey is the result, my dear friends. The mind, which says, "What solution?" argues that the Kurdish problem has been solved today. Those who can't stand up straight, those who don't have the guts, those who are in denial, of course, can't solve the problem. Instead of the Dolmabahçe table, those who set up a war coalition and an indecision table are solved in the face of the problem, as well. Yeah, the problem with the ones that are solved can't be solved. This issue will be resolved and resolved by a will and political mind that sincerely approaches, learns from the past, believes in democratic negotiations, dialogue. This will is the common will of the people of Turkey and the democratic forces of democracy today and is the democratic, parliamentary basis. HDP is a political actor and subject to democratic negotiations and a joint solution. In order to increase unresolvedness, you conduct political coup policy against HDP (HDP) and democratic politics every day. The Kobani conspiracy and closure of our party with so much corruption, corruption, fraud, gangism in the country is a political coup. It is a political blow to appoint trustees in our municipalities by disregarding the will of the people in one third of Turkey. All your attacks on our co-chair system are a man's blow against the woman. My dear Demirtaş and dear Yüksekdağ, thousands of our imprisoned politicians are being held in prisons under coup law. The Kobani conspiracy case is a campaign of your power. The members of the court you often change as you change the president of the Central Bank are the partisans of your palace. (Applause from HDP rows) ISIS's being buried in its darkness in Kobani has brought down your policies, and you want revenge by liquidating HDP (HDP) and democratic politics; we are well aware of that. We know very well that June 7th, March 31st, you're trying to get your political revenge. There is no law, there is no independent judiciary; you have inquisition courts, dear AKP members. But remember, you will not be able to shape politics and the future with your coup courts; you will never defeat the HDP, which you cannot defeat in the polls and squares. The politics of conspiracy and conspiracy will be defeated in this country. I also remind you that HDP's fighting tradition has seen numerous judicial coups, political plots and plots so far. In the 1990s, the Mehmet Sincars, the owners of the mentality that slaughtered the Vedat Aydıns, slaughtered the beloved Deniz Poyraz, in Izmir, in our party building. Those who want to make HDP to be unable to do politics by assassination, lynching, political genocide operations and judicial plots should know that we do not kneel, we do not bow, we do not surrender, we do not give up democratic politics and the fight for peace. As you pass the law, we will continue to expand democratic politics in every aspect of life. The prisoner, but our free policy will surely win; and the immoral, corrupt, cowardly politics, which binds the will, will lose big. [[Applause from HDP rows]] As dear Moses Anter once said, And the executioner woke up one night in his bed, He said, "Oh, my God." What's a difficult riddle? The more they die, the more they multiply. I'm exhausted, as long as I kill. This is the HDP, my dear friends. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) It's a long-standing battle of thousands, millions and millions, which doesn't fit in prisons or squares. It is an idea that unites the people on the basis of right, justice, equality and peace and guarantees Turkey's free future. You won't be able to stop this idea that has one end in Anatolia, another end in Mesopotamia, and you won't be able to stop it. Yes, our dear people, our great collapse as a country also creates significant opportunities for exition. Despite the lack of sleep in power, the country is now in an election process. I'd like to make a call here: if you trust your policy, if you have the courage to bring the chest, let the people make the decision, the election conditions are already in place, the public is impatiently waiting for the chest, don't try to buy time by stalling. Whatever you do, that great day of confrontation will surely come. (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party) Eventually, that crate will be built and you will face the truth, the painting you have created. Citizens should know that this is not a presidential election; this is a regime choice, a choice to determine the next century. This election will be a strong democracy in which the public will live in peace and prosperity, and a choice between the order of justice for all and the order of lawlessness, plunder and robbery. It will be a choice between unjust enrichment and corruption, and bread, vaccine enlargement. It is a choice between the order that imposes monotheism on our people and the common future where everyone will live together equally and freely without rejection of identity, language, faith, and culture. It will be a choice between the insistence of freedom and the male order of women whose achievements are under attack, which is the greatest violence and discrimination by inequality. It will be a choice between young people who will build a free future and the order of evil that wants to darken this future. This election would be a choice between the largest peace alliance and the war coalition that destroyed the country. This election will be a choice between the forests, the streams, and the Rantci power that were plundered for the runt. Yes, the people of Turkey must never become depressed or anxious; we will surely, surely, succeed in the great democratic transformation. We will change this order together, trusting and believing in our struggle, by shouldering his laborer, his laborer, his tradesman, his farmer, his woman, his youth, by raising the common struggle. This struggle is a struggle to grow both our bread and vaccine; for everyone, bread, peace, justice for everyone, democracy for everyone; it is a common, equal future struggle; it is a struggle to take our winnings back from this order. (Applause from HDP rows) We will take back the rights, the freedoms you have snatched from the people, and the hard work of their own. Never forget this, dear people, and never be anxious. Dear women, we will rescind all your rights from the men's order, including the Istanbul Convention, and we will put an end to this man's order. Once again, we promise our people that you will get our municipalities back from those trustees who entered the race for corruption and shamelessness. I want to say that you will pay the political price of playing with the people's bread and future very heavily in the chest. I call on all our citizens, all our democratic opposition, all our democratic opposition, to fight together, to start a new era together. Let's put aside fears, political concerns, accounts; let's look at politics. Let's make the strongest union of this country's people to survive the wreckage, my dear friends.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0101par0133	Mr. Buldan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0100par0134	Let us increase the struggle for democracy, justice, peace, freedom and bread in the face of this system of persecution that surrounds Turkey's society with poverty, unemployment, hunger, and injustice. With the strongest democracy alliance, with the great peace alliance, let's bring the Republic together with the great democracy in its 100th year. The HDP has the courage and determination to do so more than ever, and he will succeed. Everyone must be hopeful, the power of change is in the hands of our people. Our peoples will win the battle against Aaron, who will change the order of power. It must not be forgotten, the darkest moment of darkness is when the light is closest, and the moment is rapidly approaching. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is little time left for the big change, and the HDP has already opened the door to the big change. The will and hope of millions will start a new era. Women who put the sun in its smile, the resistance in its life, and young people who meet their courage in the future, turn this century into a century of democracy and freedom. I'm saying he's gonna make it, he's gonna make it, he's gonna make it. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0102par0140	Dear friends, now for the People's Democratic Party Group's second speaker, Co-Chair and Mardin MP Mithat Sancar. Here you go, Mr. Sancar. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0103par0144	Mr. President, we're discussing the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2022. You've heard the government's presentation, there's numbers, there's growth, there's data, there's a variety of data being presented, but there's no information coming in here that's going to darken the public's reality, and there's no truth coming in because the truth is where the people live, it's on the street, it's in the market, it's in the market, it's in the market, it's in the market. Those who think that they can conceal the truth by the figures of the TÜİK (TİK) are very much mistaken, and they will learn that they are wrong, without delay, with great blows. They will recognize this truth with the great lesson that the people will teach them. Now, they're offering us indexes, they're saying that in Turkey, this is the extent of growth. But they're not telling us how to divide and share. Yeah, there seems to be some growth. It is called export-based growth, which is the main thing in growth is the enrichment of a group of investors, the poor becoming poorer. They're talking about a new model of economics, but it's not new, it's been tried before. What we really want to do is turn this country into a cheap labor paradise, or rather a cheap labor paradise for global capital, and a hell for the people of this country. Now, look, we've got the indexes ahead of us, and these global indexes are riveting the truth, the truth we're telling. For example, in Turkey -- we're looking at the Global Organised Crime Index -- we keep saying that a criminal empire was created. According to the Global Organised Crime Index, Turkey is the 12th place in the world in the category of human trafficking and gun trafficking, the 1st in the categories, and the second in the category of criminal actors linked to the government. You're looking at the Supremeity of the Law Index, which is the 117th place between 139 countries, and this is the figures of 2021. There are more serious indexes. There's a list prepared by the Financial Action Task Force to prevent the laundering of Black Money, and it's an organization created by the OECD. Turkey is being put on the gray list, because you failed to launder black money and prevent financing terrorism. This government, which accuses anyone of terrorism, enters international indexes as a power that does not prevent the financing of terrorism, and can put the country on the gray list in this regard. On the other hand, when we look at the Misfortune Index, Turkey is ranked as the 1st today, or rather the most miserable country in the category. It's the order that creates all this, the power that feeds on this order. The political, social, economic programmes of this government have led this country into multiple crises, and the multi-crisis is deepening, and the price is heavy every day. The economic crisis is a indicator of this, a dimension, an important dimension, but it's based on political collapse and disorder of order. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Yes, if you're at the top of the law in the world, and you've left no law in this country, then there's no stability in this country, there's no security, and no one feels secure. Where there's no control, where the state of law doesn't operate, corruption and organised crime take over. That is why we call this country a criminal empire. Countless data of the ministers' involvement with gangs, mafias, information, disclosure, confessions, not a single prosecutor's act, the government is not acting, the Parliament is not doing its duty. [[Applause from HDP rows]] This system, which is constantly creating internal enemies, which is doing everything in its power to create them, is running the main battle against its people inside. But that's the understanding that destroys this country -- this understanding that makes the people enemies of one another, polarizing, disassociating crime, organised crime, smuggling into major drug trafficking, and no attempt to prevent it at all, dear friends. The Ministry of Interior has been seen discussing the budget; yes, we have a Ministry of Interior, and we have a Minister, who, when we have numerous allegations and a lot of data about it today, sees nothing wrong with threatening the public, opposition, opposition, opponents, because he gets his courage from this system, from the protection of this government. He assumes that this system is a product of the functioning of this mentality, and he is considered successful in carrying it out, so he can continue his threats and blackmail. Dear lawmakers, the biggest problem in this country is the republic's failure to meet democracy. We've been living the destruction of this problem for centuries, the next big target should be the goal of meeting the republic with democracy, and for that to happen, the Kurdish issue must be resolved in democratic ways. We're experiencing huge inequality in the economy; the gap between classes, the gap in income distribution, gets deeper and deeper, but on the other hand, the wounds of the unresolved Kurdish problem are deepening. Now, I'm going to show you some maps, so that we can see better how economics and politics are connected to the Kurdish problem and democracy. Today, the government's policy in the Kurdish issue is no different from that of the 1925 Sharq Islamic Plan, which carries the same spirit and is carried by the same spirit. You see the area covered by Sharq Islahat Plan. Well, then, let's look at the order of public inspectors that were established along with this, more or less the same area. Let's see the map of the state of emergency, yes, where the law is suspended, where democracy is suspended. All right, let's look at a map of municipalities assigned to trustees after the 2019 elections: the same area is valued friends. Our maps continue: cities with the lowest income per person, more or less the same map, dear friends. Moving on: the highest cities of unemployment; yes, the same map. What does that tell us? The democratic solution to the Kurdish problem is that resolving inequality in the country is necessary in all areas to establish equal, common life in peace. Yes, it's politically necessary, it's socially necessary, it's necessary in the economy. If we look at the budget numbers one by one, we'll see that one of the biggest shares of this budget is set aside for security spending. So this budget stands before us as a war budget. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) So, what's the price, what's the price for leaving so much for security spending? A little more bread from the table every day, a little less wear and tear, dear friends. If, in this sense of war inside the Kurdish issue, security policies would be much lower than today, as in 2015, if there were no approach to transforming every conflict zone into a war policy opportunity in the region. My dear President, my co-chair, Pervin Buldan, just told me the numbers. Yes, if the national income per person dropped from 12,000 dollars to 8,000 dollars today in 2013, the basis is security policies in the Kurdish problem, the general antidemocratic understanding that destroys war policies and social peace in the region. It is not possible to bring peace to the country, nor to economic prosperity in a land without peace, my dear brothers, that has polarized the country, devoid of plurality, that aims to single out differences. If you set up a system that's out of control, yes, know that both corruption and theft will go away, as it is today, and injustice in income distribution will be described by cliffs, just as we are now. Public resources, the property of the people, which are being pursued by supporters under the name of public-private co-operation projects, have no limit. Faize is a $240 billion split in the budget of only 2022. The payment to these allies has increased by 2 to 3 times as much as the latest developments in the course, since the share in the name of the garantite has a foreign currency index. All of this means more resources to the side, more hunger to the public, more poverty, more pressure. If a system produces poverty, we can't expect it to fight poverty. If a system implements policies that are the source of poverty itself, what it will do is to fight the poor. He fights those who speak for the poor, his rights, his petitions, and attacks those who oppose poverty, not poverty, as he does now. Yes, he attacks labor environments, attacks workers, attacks unions, all other trade organizations, but there's a way to stop all of this, and there are examples of this. One example is the 2019 local elections, and the last example is the 36th General Assembly of Turkey's Bar Association, which ended yesterday. Look, they changed the law for this administration to continue the old administration, they did all sorts of maneuvers, but they were defeated in the face of partnership in the democratic struggle. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) It was a common struggle for the rule of law, democracy and human rights, despite all the support, change of the law and all the media opportunities, propaganda opportunities. We all need to see that partnership in this area will have significant consequences in other areas, dear lawmakers, dear people. Yes, if you give up fighting policies in the Kurdish problem, then it is possible to find new ways in parliament, with the functioning of democratic politics here, for a new beginning. We don't see the solution to the Kurdish problem in Turkey as separate from exploitation, discrimination and violence against women, the elimination of youth, any policy of persecution against children and poorening policy. What will unite all this is the struggle for democracy and peace. This is the basis of our call for the great democracy alliance, the precious MPs. We aim for a great union in which all the victims, all the oppressed, the vanquished, the exploited, the hungry, can come together. And we repeat our call on every occasion to ensure this great union. If we maintain this union, a new beginning is possible, and it is possible to move this country to the next century or the second century of the republic with a movement of peace and democracy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, as Bertolt Brecht said, what we need is to create a society that doesn't need heroes, not heroes. It's a huge social movement that eliminates us, destroys the concept of us, meets fundamental values against unfair understanding. This is the guarantee of our future. That's what we owe the young men of this country. There are millions of young people today who have given up on their country, who don't see their future here. We owe a great debt to these young people, and we must also make a promise to these young people. We say that the future is in your hands, honourable youths. You will build this future. You deserve to live in a country where all the differences of this country can live equally. We have no doubt that you deserve it. If we haven't shown enough effort to make it so far, we owe you our embarrassment. But I address all the young people from now on: peace, democracy, quality of life, education, equality, justice, whatever it takes, we are ready to be subject to you, we will always bow our necks before your power to transform this country, we have complete confidence in your great power, your will. (Applause from HDP rows) Please do not despair, do not be pessimistic; persist in rejecting politics in its dirty form now. Clean, democratic politics, politics on the basis of public benefits, community benefits are possible. We do what we can, but the real guarantee is that young people have it, that they have it. Dear lawmakers, look, I'm going to give you a few more examples, but it doesn't take much to explain the fundamentality of power's propaganda. They're presenting it as a new economic model, and they're implying that they've made the last fluctuation in the exchanges consciously. Now, the outside forces are starting to tell the story, but what did the President say? We know what we're doing, and we know where we want to go. Since we did it on purpose, you want the results. Now let's ask the government's representatives, the government's partners, who run propaganda for foreign forces to intervene: Why did the Prince of the United Arab Emirates come here, and why did he come here? I thought this was the great devil, the financier behind July 15th. We'll tell you, we know why he's here: he's come from this situation that you've put the country into to make opportunities. You called, and you called to say, "Come, let us give you the public resources that the people of Turkey have saved for cheap, even free." Here, if you're looking for an outside actor, look at these. Today, Foreign Minister Mevlüt is in Qatar. We're looking at the press headline: we're looking at opportunities that will arise because of the economic departure of Turkey. This is the word of the Qatar Foreign Minister. What are these opportunities? These opportunities are the culmination of resources collected by the working people of this country at the expense of nothing. Here, sell the country. That's what you call it. How do you sell a country that's more open? We'll call it a stop! We've got the power to say stop, dear friends. It is possible for this country to form an equal life order in all different ways, it is necessary. For that, of course, we need a sincere confrontation. We need to show courage to look back without any anxiety. I can tell you long and hard what this confrontation might mean, but I'm going to quote Malcolm X that I find very striking. If you stick a nine-inch knife in my back and pull the knife back six centimeters, it's not progress at the point of equality, it's not progress if you remove the knife completely; progress is not progress, it's treatment for the wound. Yes, if we're going to build an equal life, we have to show the understanding, the will, the courage, the courage to heal all those wounds that are fundamentally corrupting it. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The HDP is the address of the solution to this problem because it is based on international equality. HDP pluralistic life is the address of the solution because it is based on the unity of differences in pluralistic life. Let us repeat once again that we will fulfill all our responsibilities in this matter using every means necessary in democratic politics. To this day, we have ignored all the sieges, the use of the state device, the efforts to digest them, we have not yielded, and we will not heed, nor will we submit. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We will continue to walk the right path, the right way, the right way. We are confident that this path will lead this country to great peace. Only great thinkers and great goals can create great peace. The only people who risk it are the ones who complete the march. So, we say that the HDP is ready to do its part, and will do everything in its power to negotiate and be in dialogue with all the communities. Whether he's distant from us or not, whether he likes us or not, it's our goal to negotiate and dialogue with each and every community, and it's a motto we don't give up. I'll tell you more: yes, there are those who hate us, and there are those who see us as traitors. We're willing to do everything we can to talk to them, to negotiate with them, to carry out the dialogue, to understand their concerns, their fears, and to deal with them all together, and we will. That's what great peace requires. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) For the greater peace, the HDP is ready to carry out its responsibility to the full. Now, we need an emergency exit from this crisis. There is a need for a multi-crisis democratic alliance, and it is essential to create a reflection of this democratic alliance. We call it the extended democracy alliance, the third way of the country, we define the third option, and we walk there. Now, it's not acceptable for a government to remain in office, creating such major crises. Therefore, we invite them to resign, but we know they will not resign.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0104par0165	Mind your own business, mind your own business.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0103par0166	So, now, we believe he's in charge of the House. Parliament must take initiative on this issue; the early election decision must be taken out of this parliament immediately. We repeat our call to all opposition parties: to bring the early election motion here together without delay. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I know, among those who are now in AKP ranks, including those who speak out, and who are not here, there are not many who have a bad conscience about this trend; I believe that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0105par0170	Don't speak for us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0106par0171	Speak for yourself, speak for yourself.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0103par0172	I say that those who speak to me today, including those who feel guilty about the situation, are not few. At least there are a number of conscientious AKP MPs who can vote for early elections. [[Applause from HDP rows]] So, let's bring in the early election motion and leave them with their conscience. Let's get the crate to this country; if you're sure that you're confident that you're starting a new era; come on, let's get this new era voted on, let's get it in front of the public, and then, if you get approval from here, if this new model of yours gets approved, you'll continue, but if you don't get it -- and we know that democratic forces are going to win this fight, we know that they're going to come out of it with a hundred bucks. We believe that there is a great community and a conscience that will bring democracy and peace to this country, and we are moving on with that faith. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit02spe0107par0177	Thank you. Guys, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0107par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, President-General and İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu will now speak. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. [[Standing ovations from CHP rows]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, listening to us on television, listening to their radios, listening to their social media accounts, we send our warmest regards to you as the Republican People's Party Group. We'll talk about the budget. Dear lawmakers, as you call it -- friends before me -- are one of the fundamental laws of Turkey, and there are special regulations on the adoption of the budget. Therefore, when budget laws are discussed in parliament, all lawmakers must obtain healthy and consistent information -- no matter what party it is from. If healthy and consistent information does not come to parliament, those budget talks are not the right meeting. Look, my dear friends, if the Court reports, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey are being audited, the Court reports are being changed, and the changing Court reports are coming to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then there's one thing the executive body is afraid of, it doesn't want the facts to be seen. Who's in charge here? If the Court is serving on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must quickly receive information about the changes in the Court reports and inform Parliament. I'll give you an example: the report is a 100-page report, the report to the House, 11 pages, the same thing, but there's the world's corruption here; there's nothing here. The Plan and Budget Commission asked the Minister, "Why didn't you give the Court the information he asked for?" We gave all the information. He said, Mr. Secretary. The Court asked for a word on him, and the Court's representative in the Plan and Budget Commission asked for a word, but they did not promise. Why? He was going to show the article, and he was going to say: "We wanted information with these articles, but unfortunately the institution didn't give us any information. (If the institution, the audit agency, does not provide information to the auditor, if it does not provide documents, then the executive body does not answer to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (CHP clapping in rows) I'm calling out to those over there, I'm calling out to those over there, and I'm calling out to you. Who's interfering with the court? My dear friends, another important matter, of course the ministers will come to the Plan and Budget Commission and will, of course, answer the questions of the MPs. Unresponsive questions, they don't answer. How about these, Minister? How, Minister? During budget talks last year, I said: "These are not sins, these are already civil servants." They were taken, there is no difference between the duties of state officials and now the duties of the Ministers, public duty, the immunity of both, more or less, the same immunity. What makes me sad? A man who came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with his own signature, who sent the budget to Parliament, not to explain the budget here, to appoint a person he appointed instead... That's not true, that's a disgrace to Parliament's reputation. If there is a special arrangement for the production of the budget in this Constitution, if budgets are also discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission and discussed in a special process, then one person will say, "This is my budget. This is the door behind the budget and the budget." (CHP cheers) He's not stopping, he's sent his officers here, sir, you tell him about the budget. For God's sake, they came and told me, what did you understand? A pink painting, there's nothing wrong with Turkey, because they were instructed to. Why are they not responsible? I say, because even in the fire, we started putting out the fire with our President's instructions. Oh, for God's sake, do you expect instructions for a fire? Therefore, there is no sin on them. What did Mr. Mehmet Flyum say? The government for one, he called it. The only person in the one-man government who's going to come and present the budget to Parliament should come and present it here, stand behind his budget, know for what reason he's doing it -- we need to know -- and give us clear and clear answers to our questions; it's not going to happen by running, it's not going to happen without coming to Parliament. It would be a disgrace to the House's reputation. My dear friends, in every budget interview, I express that the MPs have questions. Yeah, well, you didn't leave anything, you didn't leave anything in the House. The reputation of the House, the reputation, the reputation... what in God's name does he have? There's only one thing: they're gonna ask questions, written questions. See, 27,323 questions are not answered by the end of the 27th term. I mean, these gentlemen, they don't answer, they don't. They say, "No need." What does that mean? Each one of you is a congressman. If a minister or ministers aren't answering the questions of the MPs, I'm sorry, Congress is an ordinary institution for us. And I'm telling the president that you need to look after him. Mr. President, every now and then, the MPs make a motion to question, look, look, change this sentence, do this, do that, do that. Come on, I get it, you sent it back right and wrong, and the answer is? The question is something else, the answer is something else. The MP asks, "Where is A?" He says, "Z." Well, then, Mr. President, you're going to send that answer there, too. Even the traffic police have a warrant, and you have no authority to issue any questions at this time. There's not even an answer. They have written to the Constitution, and they will answer in fifteen days. There is no answer. What does that mean? What do you mean, the Constitution? Do we apply the Constitution? One person decides, everything happens in Turkey. This is where we come from in Turkey. All lawmakers need to be sincere about this; this Melis is not only my Assembly, but 600 people are perceived as disreputable people in the community. A Parliament, a congressman, whose questions are not even answered. Yeah, his questions aren't even answered. My dear friends, another thing... If this doesn't happen, if we don't have what we say, if this process goes on like this, there's only one known sentence: the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is under custody. Once again, if the MP's questions aren't answered, the Court's reports are interfered with, and some of the information from those reports is removed, and dust and dust reports come to this parliament, and they're executed, then the Parliament is under the protection of the administration. Is it real? Yeah, it's real. We call this Parliament the Veteran Assembly, which gave the National Liberation War, for God's sake? What vet does he have left? What authority do you have? They turned parliament into a group of lawmakers who raised hands. One person dares to stand up and say, "This is my view." From the moment he says, "We won't show you on the parliamentary list again." What does that mean? I'm also taking custody of the state. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Don't worry, I'm telling the truth, the truth hurts, you'll suffer the truth. Have you stood up and criticised inflation for anything? You can't criticize, you don't have the guts. Nobody's sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0109par0019	What about Mehmet Sevigen, Mehmet Sevigen? Where's Mehmet Sevigen?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0110par0020	There's no answer.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0021	Look, dear friends, this is the part about Congress, about the economy... you know what economics is. What in God's name is in this budget? Look, this country-- I personally and as lawmakers who love the country of my group, since August 2018, it's gone wrong, the economic crisis will come. The crisis has arrived, take precautions. We said there will be an economic depression. We have proposed to each criticism. Do this, do this, do this, do this. You can't do it, but with a responsible sense of opposition, we did it. Look, dear friends, if you really want to solve a problem, you have to sit down and talk to the people who are dealing with the problem, and you have to ask, "What is your problem, friend?" What's the way, what's the way? It's in the Constitution, the Economic and Social Council. Is it packed? It's not packed. Now, my dear friends, what would have happened if the Economic and Social Council had gathered? Yeah, well, that's a question: what if we add it up, what if we don't? At least from the farmer's representative, the farmer's problem, the shopkeeper's problem, the industrialist's problem, the laborer's problem, the pensioner's problem; what problems did they face, at least, you'd find out; plus, you'd line up the ministers in front of the Social Council, you'd line up the people who were facing the Social Council, listen, listen, listen, listen, the farmer's got problems, the farmer's got problems, the pensioner's got problems, there's unions, there's employers, there's employers, there's employers, listen to them. You'd say, "Let's sit down and discuss this problem with Turkey together." Yeah, we're out of feathers. No. I know everything. Yes, friend, all right, but I'm sorry, but if one person says I know everything, he's the most ignorant man in the world, that's the Turkish language. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A constitutional institution is also the Economic and Social Council. I've just told you, since the Constitution is already on hold, what's the need for the Constitution because no one obeys it? You don't run a constitutional institution. See, one question: when was the last time the Economic and Social Council met -- once every three months at a time -- February 5, 2009. Have you ever asked these gentlemen, why don't you gather this Economic and Social Council? Did you ask him? You can't ask! You can't ask! That's the problem. We ask, but you have to ask, friend, why don't you gather this Economic and Social Council? Organizations can't speak, labor organizations, employers' organizations, they're under pressure, they dare to say nothing. They're picking up the phone, for God's sake, tell me this, for God's sake. So, you guys talk. Well, you know, Mr. President, if we talk, they'll destroy us. If you prefer, if I have a friend from the AK PARTY who wants one, I'll have them meet that person. Such a disgrace never occurred in the history of the Republic of Turkey. One more question, whose problem does this budget solve? Tell me to let a servant of God come out so that we can solve this problem. Does it solve the farmer's problem? Yeah, ask them, for God's sake. Do they even know about the fertilizer prices? They've shut themselves down, they're sitting in the palace, they're looking at the palace, everyone's fine, they've got a salary, they've got three paychecks, they've got five paychecks. It's like a Byzantine palace, and everybody's screwing each other. Dude, you're the farmer's diesel, the farmer's fertilizer, the farmer's medicine... does the government compete with its own farmer? You bring wheat from the outside, you pay more, you pay more, you don't pay your own farmer. Look, dear friends, as they say, we've increased the right income support. Information from the agricultural rooms, agriculture, farmers: They made an arrangement in 2016 that we would give 100 lira per acre of direct income to small family businesses that were up to five acres. 2016, what year is it? 2021. How much is their direct income support for five acres? Still 100 lira, still. They come to me, they tell me about the budget. Yeah, I listen to the farmer, man, I listen to the tradesman, I listen to the industrialist, I listen to the tourist. Who are you listening to? You're listening to each other. For the sake of the palace, you're listening to each other. There's nothing there. God knows, they drink the magic and enjoy themselves. There's no order like that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What interest, what interest? Did you guys reset the farmer's interest? I promise, I have a covenant, and by God's grace, we'll be in power, and in the first week, we'll reset the interest of farmers' loans from banks, from Agriculture Loan Cooperatives. That's what it's like to reset interest. Is your heart enough? Ask them. Ask him if you have enough heart. Not enough, we need instructions to reset the interest. What was the monthly inflation? Three-and-a-half months of inflation. Annual inflation, 21.31. Why? Orders from the palace. Don't we know the instructions are gone? Don't we know it makes my number look low? Yeah, well, even from our point of view, it's a serious shame that we don't question the executive body in terms of Parliament. A group called ENAG; Inflation Research Group, academics. The experts sit down, not 3.5 months of inflation, but 9.91; annual inflation is not 21 percent, but 58.63 percent. Which one is it? Is it true that the TÜİK is giving it to you? Go, for God's sake, go to any grocery store -- God forbid -- say the grocery store -- so that what TÜİK says is true, the annual inflation is 21 percent. I'll leave politics.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0111par0032	How many dropouts!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0033	Look, I'm being clear and clear. You don't know about the world, do you, by God, even more than that, the increase in bread, or the increase in food, do you know that the fertilizer has increased by 200 percent? Do you know there's a spike in medicine? Do these gentlemen know what's wrong with the industrialist, the investor? They don't know, they don't know.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0112par0035	There's ladies there, ladies; there's ladies there.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0036	Sir, there will be stability in the budget, stability in the economy! I'm asking you a question, and I'm asking you as the esteemed lawmakers of the EC PARTY: What's the name of the institution assigned to maintain stability in the market? You passed the law, we took out the Central Bank, the Central Bank. The name of the institution tasked with maintaining price stability is the Central Bank; open it, read Article 4. What did they do with the Central Bank? They've been jealous, they've been emasculated. Erdogan came out, issued a decree, and said: "I'm setting up a Price Stability Committee." Yes, I'm setting up a Price Stability Committee.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0113par0038	The nation appointed Erdogan.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0039	Look, he took the authority of Parliament from Parliament and took it from the Central Bank and gave it to his organization. Well, come on, let's say you do; does anyone know how many times the price Stability Committee has been assembled? It's never packed. How, for God's sake, is this government run? Can you hand over a government to a person's two lips? Then what is the mission of this House? This is what we say, and you grieve; and do not grieve, for that is the truth, and the truth is bitter. (CHP cheers) We have to express the facts.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0114par0040	Are you a candidate? Say it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0041	Let me ask you again: does it solve the tradesman's problem? What problem does the tradesman solve? If it solves the tradesman's problem, come here and tell me about it. They can't.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0115par0042	You're not coming, General Kurula.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0043	He can't replace the goods he's selling; he sees that he's selling for $1 -- when he goes -- he's selling for $2, he's selling for $2, he's selling for $4, he's selling for $8. If you don't believe me, there's a lot of stores with three letters -- there's A101, there's BIM -- go ask them, look at the labels. Friends, respected lawmakers, respected lawmakers of the EC PARTY, these gentlemen have made the country so much more available in the markets now that the label-changers are employed, changing labels. (CHP turns to applause) Employees changing labels every hour are employed. Oh, you might say: "O Kılıçdaroglu, that's not true. Did you open the world newspaper and read it?" Turkey's most important economic paper. Go on, read it. My dear friends made the Central Bank that 128 billion dollars evaporated, 128 billion dollars. For God's sake, the bank that's in charge of selling the currency is the Central Bank. You're taking 128 billion dollars, you're doing a protocol; these guys are doing it, they're doing a protocol, they're handing it over to the groom. Where'd it go, 128 billion dollars? What did the groom and father-in-law do with 128 billion dollars?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0116par0046	Ask Ilhan Kesici, Ilhan Kesici.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0047	It's my duty to ask for the rights of an unfinished orphan, and it's yours. They sold it for $66.5, now it's $14. You know who they sold it to? You don't know, they won't tell.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0117par0048	Ask Ilhan Kesici, Ilhan Kesici. Ask Ilhan Kesici, he will explain it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0049	You don't know, you have to ask, my dear friends, you have to ask. Where'd he go, who'd you sell $128 billion to out the back door?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0118par0050	There hasn't been $128 billion in its history.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0051	Look, what's someone saying? There was never 128 billion dollars in history, he says. He's so unaware of the world.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0118par0053	No...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0054	He's so ignorant of the world, and he's sitting in your line as a congressman. What in God's name can you expect? Is this going to be responsible for your citizen's rights, his law? Trust, trust, trust. This power, one-man government, one-man government. This government is a government in the hands of a citizen with neither parties nor Parliament with respect to the international arena, but a government for one. A person without dignity is a government. It's a government that no one's ever respected. There's two of them...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0119par0056	Didn't you see the siirt square?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0057	The citizen has no confidence. Have you ever asked yourself, for God's sake, why do I borrow dollars from my own citizen? Why do I have to borrow euros from my own citizen? Why do I have to borrow gold from my own citizen? Yeah, doesn't this country have Turkish lira? Yeah, you were a national. How national? These aren't national. Again, none of this is national, and none of the sitting ministers are national. (CHP cheers) Someone who trusts foreign money, not his own money. Someone who didn't fight for his own money to make Turkish lira a stamp.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0120par0060	Biden is the one who seeks help...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0121par0061	The one who complained about his hometown to strangers...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0062	Sir, we have written this book. It says, "They have written the book; yes, they have written the book." It's a book. Yeah, how Turkish lira turns into stamps. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Another thing, just the people I'm talking about, and the citizen has no confidence. Does anyone know how much savings deposits are in banks? 63%. What does that mean, tell me, ever since the founding of the Republic of Turkey, citizens don't trust their own country in the Republic of Turkey? He keeps the money in dollars, in euros, in banks, 63 percent of the deposit. How many of you know about this?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0122par0065	It's all gonna change.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0066	How many of you know about this? He says he's gonna change. You'll see it's going to get bigger, it's going to get bigger. You're opening up a loan, he's going to take the loan, he's going right, he's taking his dollar, he's putting it in the bank, because he can't see where he's going. What's the matter, where's the dollar going, he doesn't see it. I'll tell you again, my dear friends, how many dollars in gold, dollars, euros to your own citizens... these are the natives, these are the so-called nationals, aren't they? On December 10, 2020, the minister of the period said: "We will reduce the foreign currency in 2021. We will not reduce the foreign debt. Let me give you a figure, they were owed 2,900m euros between January and July. They owe us $2.5 billion from our own citizen, our own citizen. They owe us 130,200 kilos of gold, from our own citizen. If they borrow Turkish lira, no one will pay. What does that mean, not insecurity? Who's dragging Turkish lira down on the floor? They've been in power for how long, for God's sake, how long have they been in power? How do they make Turkish lira like this? I'm asking, I'm asking, but at least if you can't ask, at least ask behind closed doors, there's no such scandal.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0123par0068	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0069	Look, my dear friends, a government for one cannot be handed over to one person's two lips. Take Mete Khan, and bring him to this day, and the state has never been delivered to a man in the law of the people of this country. For the first time, after 2018, we handed over the government to one person. Thanks to him, you had Erdogan's advisor, Mr. Mehmet Ukulum: We call it a one-man government. So the people here are not the government, they don't say the government, they say the government. What cabinet, brother? You get together, someone gives you instructions, you do what's necessary, that's the bottom line.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0123par0070	52 percent, 52 percent.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0071	Erdoğan says: "I have never been a lender, I have never been a lender." I can easily tell you that Erdogan is the only hope of all loan sharks and loan sharks.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0123par0073	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0074	I'll say it again: The security and hope of all the lenders is Erdogan. You don't believe that, do you? Well, I'll prove it, I'll prove it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0123par0075	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0076	How much is the $180 billion interest payment in this budget this year?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0124par0077	Lower interest...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0078	You raise your hand, you approve it; it's $240 billion. I thought you were against interest. 180 billion, 240 billion; how does that work? Yeah, don't you ever ask? So, my friend, you're saying that interest is going down. You're bringing in the budget; 180 billion dollars is going up to 240 billion, 240 billion goes up to 400 million.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0125par0079	What's the budget rate? What's the budget rate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0126par0080	Don't answer that... dirty man!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0081	Yeah, forget the budget rate, I'll give you the number. Look at the budget. Is there a budget left, for God's sake? You say the budget has changed all the numbers since the day this budget was signed and came to Parliament, all the numbers have changed. How much was the dollar dry? What percentage of inflation? You don't know what the middle-term plan was. This brother of yours knows them all, he knows them all. (CHP) Let me say again: during the AK PARTY, when he was in power, a group of loan sharks in London...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0127par0082	Are you going to run? You should run for office.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0083	Why are you so interested in my candidacy, huh? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on! Don't forget what's coming! (Applause) $193 billion, and I'll tell you again, take note that $193 billion paid interest to loan sharks in London. Why do I say that the loan sharks are Erdogan's greatest hope, their greatest guarantee? Tell me, in the history of the Republic of Turkey, is there any other government that pays interest to loan sharks in London for $193 billion?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0128par0085	If he does, he'll do an AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0086	These and the ones you support... Every day of God's day, 74 million, 571,369 dollars interest is paid.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0129par0088	Who has the gold in London...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0089	$3 million, 107, 140 interest per hour. He said he'd lower the interest, which interest dropped? Did the farmer's interest go down, the pensioner's interest went down, or the citizen's interest went down when he took credit cards from banks?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0130par0090	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0131par0091	You disagreed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0092	Sir, what's the need for a farmer for a loan that the Federal Reserve is going to give the banks?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0131par0093	Why did you object?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0094	The farmer doesn't take advantage of it, the pensioner doesn't take advantage of it, the industrialist doesn't take advantage of it. They're gassing us for interest. There was no interest dropped, but there were bonds in dollars, all of which went up, all of them up. You guys don't open up and look at the economy, see where it's going? The farmer's interest, the tradesman's interest, the industrialist's interest, the credit card holder's interest never dropped. Just as we're going to reset the farmer's interest, God willing, when we're in power, we're going to reset the interest of the tradesman's Bail Co-operatives and all the loans they've taken from the banks. Then you'll see how this interest resets.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0132par0096	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0097	Now, what budget is this? Yeah, what budget? The farmer doesn't solve the problem, the shopkeeper doesn't solve it, the industrialist doesn't solve it, the tourist doesn't solve it, the freelancer doesn't solve it. The citizen doesn't trust him, he takes his savings, he deposits it all in dollars, $63% of the deposit. Well, you pay the interest of the world out there, and now you're going door-to-door. Until yesterday, we've described the pool media as such an excuse for using this phrase, the headline of the newspaper, the headline of the New Dawn - the headline of the New Dawn - came running to us, wondering if it could be a derman, could it be an ointment for our wound? Yeah, I wonder what kind of stomach you guys have, what kind of insight you got? How could this happen? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now that Mr. Qatar has gone to Qatar -- Mithat Hajji has also told us -- we are considering opportunities in Turkey due to the economic progress of Qatar Foreign Minister. Whose economic progress? Our economic progress. Who's gonna take the chance? The Qatars will consider it. Why are we going there? Yeah, we got cheap stuff, tapon stuff, come on! Don't raid Hasan. I'll give you everything you've got. Just save me! What about Turkey? What about Turkey? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, this budget is a budget that exploits people's hard work. It's a budget that buys from the poor and gives to the rich. This budget is a budget that exploits the farmer's sweat. This budget is the budget that poorens the state of the Republic of Turkey. This budget is a budget that buys from the poor and gives to the rich with the largest transfer of funds in the history of the republic. So this budget, clearly and clearly, is a conspiracy budget for the state of the Republic of Turkey. Who will benefit and benefit from this budget? Farmers don't take advantage, pensioners don't take advantage, tradesmen don't take advantage, none of them do; their interest stands. Yeah, they impounded the farmer's tractor. They're impounding the farmer's tractor, gentlemen, but buy $750 million from the Farm Bank, buy the papers, buy the TVs. Yeah, what kind of understanding is that? Did you get the money, brother? They have enough power for the farmer, enough for the shopkeeper, sir, enough for the janitor, enough for the poor, making threats, but no one can touch the thick backs, no one can touch them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0133par0102	You threaten, you threaten, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0103	I won't threaten anyone, don't worry. [[Noises]] Oh, I'm just saying, wait a minute, wait a minute... whoever signs under an illegal article, whoever's involved in corruption, I'm not keeping any of them in the government. I say again, the thief, the corrupter, $10,000...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0134par0106	Are you running or running?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0107	I'm not gonna hold it, I'm gonna hold it, I'm gonna make sure of it. Thieves have no business in this state. Not only there, I'm going to clear the Turkish Parliament of the Great National Assembly of the United States of Turkey of pollution. We'll have a political moral code, a political code of ethics. What's your stalker doing in the House?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0135par0109	Istanbul City laid off 3,000 people.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0110	I was going to tell you later, I'll tell you now. The Home Secretary of this country, your Home Secretary, who's going to come and sit here. What did you say to the state TV? A politician gets $10,000 a month. You said. Well, haven't any of you ever wondered who this friend is? You didn't wonder... you know who he is, and I know who he is. So, friend...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0135par0111	Why don't you explain the politician who took money from the ashtray?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0112	Why don't you call a friend upstairs...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0135par0113	Why don't you explain the politician who took money from the ashtray?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0114	What did you do with this $10,000?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0135par0116	Why don't you explain that to the politician who took money from the ashtray?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0117	Why doesn't he do it? Because he's a mute devil who's thirsty in the face of injustice. Again, in the face of injustice, the mute devil is silent in the face of corruption. Loud and clear. Next we'll ask here, we'll ask, who's that guy who goes every month and gets $10,000?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0136par0118	Tell me, you know.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0119	We know all about it, don't worry. Oh, who's taking advantage of it, who's taking it away? This budget, these gentlemen's economic programs, their studies, who's taking it? Those who bid on dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0136par0120	Tell me, who took the $10,000?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0121	If you're not asking me, friends, then I swear to God, when you go home, ask your elementary school child, friend, is a tender given in the state of the Republic of Turkey? Ask him. Yeah, Turkish lira, bro. Why are you bidding on dollars? Now the dollar goes from $7 to $14.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0136par0122	Istanbul City is in debt with dollars, so what now?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0123	Who won, the farmer won, retired, the tradesman won, who won? The bidder won the dollar. Who's gonna pay the money? He'll pay 84 million?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0136par0124	Ekrem Imamoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0125	Where does the money go? He's going from the poor to the five-alarm gang. From the poor poor, you'll get it from there, you'll pay here. Does your conscience accept this, for God's sake?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0137par0126	Imamoglu borrowed it with dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0128	Now, you bid on this dollar, let's say you bid on the dollar, thanks.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0137par0129	What if your own municipality...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0130	Friend or mercy, you're giving away security in dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0137par0131	Imamoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0132	Do the bridge, do the road, do this, do this; there won't be so many passengers anyway, and I'll pay you. There's no Turkish lira, I won't accept it. With what? You'll give it to me in dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0137par0133	Your municipalities do the same.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0134	Come on, man, you don't know the city.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0138par0135	Istanbul City Hall...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0136	If you want to know about the municipalities, go and read up on the corruption file, which the Home Secretary has confiscated. One more time, your Home Secretary has seized the corruption file, which the Metropolitan has uncovered, so don't investigate it, I will investigate it. If there's a conscience, if there's morality, if you respect this Parliament, you'll go and say, "What happened to these files, friend?" What happened to these files? (CHEERING) You can't say you can't. Parliament must be free of pollution. The political moral code will come, everyone will sit down, do the right thing; that's the rule. Sir, the bidders, we said it with dollars. You guaranteed it, and it's in dollars. And why do they owe my grandson, your grandson?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0138par0137	Istanbul City Hall is in debt...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0138	You pay taxes, fine, fine. Do it on tax, thank you, we have no objection. Either you're making me owe you money, and you're making me owe you grandkids. And you're borrowing it on a dollar basis. And what does this have to do with morality -- between us -- nationalism, nationalism? Look, why did I say that? I said this budget is the budget that buys from the poor, buys from the poor, transfers money to a bunch of rich, a bunch of loan sharks, a handful of dollars to a baron. Proof? That's the proof, what else should I tell you? Here's another thing: look... He's got diarrhea, huh? He's got diarrhea?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0139par0142	On your side...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0143	Here's the central bank's data, the central bank's data. The increase in 2020-24 November 2021 increased by $5.20, $5.20. What does that mean? Turkey's foreign debt increased by 2 trillion liras. If you don't believe me, there's an economist you believe in, ask him.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0140par0144	No one believes him.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0145	Two trillion liras up. So, what are the taxes we're going to raise in 2022? One trillion 258 billion liras. Look, there's a rise in $2 trillion of foreign debt, much more than the taxes we're going to collect. Who are we going to give these two trillions to? To the loan sharks in London, to the lenders here with dollars. Who's going to pay for the money we guaranteed, guaranteed by guarantees, the bridges, the dollar bills? He'll pay 83 million. What does that mean?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0140par0146	We're almost there in London...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0147	The money taken from the poor, strange guru in the history of the Republic goes to a bunch of loan sharks, a handful of dollars barons. They have no place to sleep, and I'll tell you again, they have no place to sleep. Your responsibility is to raise your hand. Look, my dear friends, we understand the dollar contract, the dollar guarantee. They did one more thing, and maybe you don't know him at all because you're not investigating, your job is to raise your hand and lower it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0141par0150	What are your parents doing? What did they do?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0151	Look, you know what they did at the same time, you know what they did? If they're in debt by dollar, inflation in the United States is in debt by euro, they're also washing inflation in the European Union on our backs.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0142par0153	What kind of a move is that? What's that move?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0143par0154	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0108par0155	Yes, yes, if you're in debt by dollar, inflation in America, if you're in debt by euro, they're putting inflation in our backs in the European Union.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0144par0157	The ladies are here.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0145par0158	There are ladies here, ladies.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0146par0159	There are ladies.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0160	Now, let me ask you a question...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0146par0162	Use a clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0163	Now, let me ask you a question...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0148par0164	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0165	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0148par0166	President, that's what he did. There are ladies here to apologize.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0149par0167	Mr. President, let him apologize.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0168	Now, the question is, why would this nation suffer inflation in America?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0170	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0149par0171	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0172	Why would this nation suffer inflation in the European Union?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0174	Friends, Mr. Kilicdaroglu...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0149par0175	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0176	Who is the dollar good for?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0177	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0178	Who's the dollar for?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0179	Mr. Kilicdaroglu...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0147par0180	Who's the dollar for?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0181	Mr. Kilicdaroglu... friends...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0151par0182	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0152par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0184	Will you be quiet for a minute? Wait a minute!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0151par0185	Shame on you! Is that a conversation?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0186	Well, why don't you guys talk about it, and I'll be on my way. Please, just a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0153par0187	That language doesn't suit the CHP's president. I don't think the president of the CHP...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0188	Guys, I can't see anything from here. But according to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0153par0189	It's not right for him to talk like that. Apologize. I mean, please apologize, that's not true.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0154par0190	Apologize for your actions!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0150par0191	It is foreseen to speak in a decent language in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0154par0192	Apologize to the women!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0155par0193	I did it by mistake. Say, "I did it by mistake."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0156par0194	Shame on you! Is that even possible? It's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0157par0195	That's what I'm inviting the preachers to do.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0158par0196	Watch the footage! Take a break, watch the footage!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0159par0197	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0160par0198	Shame! Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0159par0199	Who benefits from this dollar rising?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0160par0201	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0161par0202	What you're doing is disgusting.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0159par0203	There's another one they've created, and there's another group, who've been bribed with dollars, who've taken $10,000 in bribes. Two...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0162par0204	Mr. President, we can't go on like this.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0159par0205	Those who had been bribed and proved corrupt have been appointed ambassadors. I'm asking these questions, is it the ambassador who takes bribes? Are there any ambassadors who do wrong and take bribes?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0163par0206	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0164par0207	This is the president speaking...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0165par0209	Where are you going?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0166par0210	Guys, stop, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, guys. We know they're uncomfortable.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0167par0211	My president will apologize.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0165par0212	Mr. President, take a break, take a break.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0168par0213	That's disgusting...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0169par0214	They've brought Turkey to a point where they've forgiven corruption, rescued drug lords from courts, freed drug lords from prisons, and we know that very well.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0165par0215	Take a break...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0170par0216	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0165par0217	Mr. President, take a break, watch the footage.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0170par0218	Wait a minute, guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0171par0219	No republican prosecutor...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0170par0220	Mr. Kilicdaroglu...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0172par0221	That's no way to go on.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0170par0222	Guys, wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0173par0223	It's done, it's done.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0170par0224	Guys, I'm gonna watch it after the speech, and we're gonna evaluate it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0174par0225	What you're doing is disgusting, we're uncomfortable as women.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0170par0226	Calm down, let it be complete.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0174par0227	Does it suit you as a president?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0175par0228	He needs to apologize.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0229	I'm also glad you're uncomfortable with the inflation in the United States, the inflation in the European Union falling on the backs of citizens of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0175par0231	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0232	Yeah, nice to meet you. If you ask me to answer for this, I'll thank you. You're not gonna be mad at me. You're gonna be mad at me. You're going to say: "Ya, inflation in America, sir, how does inflation in the European Union fall on the back of this nation?" (AK PARTY) The Devil can't even think of it, but they do. Yeah, the devil doesn't think about it, they do.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0175par0234	Mr. President, he needs to apologize.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0235	They've reset trust in the bureaucracy, in the bureaucracy. They've finished the favor in the state. The state is governed by what you call justice, the state is ruled by what you call righteousness, the state is governed by what you call it, and in the government, people do certain tasks, certain dignity.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0175par0236	Shame, shame, shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0237	They shut down the most important institutions of the state, their most important institutions. And they created a parallel structure in the government. You're complaining about parallel structure, aren't you?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0175par0238	That's a shame, that's a shame.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0239	There's a Secretary of State, there's a Minister of Foreign Affairs in the palace; there's a Central Bank's job, and there's another agency in the palace; there's a CEC President, and there's the head of the SEC in the palace.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0175par0241	Apologize, apologize!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0242	There's a Foreign Minister's Speaker, and there's a Secretary of State at the palace. Thus, this parallel structure does not bring Turkey into the light; this parallel structure needs to be changed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0177par0244	Tell him he's sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0245	They backed up the drug lords. I'm telling you again, you're gonna be mad at him, too, because they backed up the drug lords.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0178par0246	AK PARTY did the biggest fight with drugs.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0247	Look, what's the challenge? I'm reading, I'm reading from the European Drug Report.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0178par0248	Let Europe look at its own mistakes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0249	Turkey is the highest number of deaths under the age of 30 due to drug overdose.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0179par0250	Pass them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0251	Let me read it again, so you know what you've become in the country. You don't... you don't know the world. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What did Erdogan say? They're going to be served, aren't they? For God's sake, why don't you take a tour of Istanbul, take a look around Asia Minor? Go see where the drug trouble is headed, and I'll have you meet them, meet the mothers, and I'll have you meet them. You didn't go, you didn't see, you didn't sit, you didn't talk.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0180par0254	It's a shame a president would do that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0255	You know what a mother's greatest fear is? Did you or did you not have your mother's biggest fear when her son arrived in the evening? Did he or did he not sell her cell phone?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0180par0256	What a move!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0257	Yeah, we're looking into all that. You can't. They can't do it at all, they've got their backs on the barons, but we'll do it by the will of God, and you'll see. We're going to do it, we're going to hold it, we're going to pull Turkey out of this mess, we're going to pull butter out of it. We're not gonna fight, and we're gonna do it with our friends.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0181par0259	Who are your friends?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0180par0260	You'll make the same move.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0261	Who took out Zindashti? Can you tell me who got Zindashti out of prison? Yeah, there's tons of coke being caught, weights of cocaine, and the D.A. doesn't have the guts to investigate, so he can't open an investigation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0181par0262	Where was he captured?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0263	Haven't you heard? For God's sake, didn't you or didn't you? Don't you know, my friend, that you don't know? Don't you know about Alexandria, Dilovai?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0181par0264	Where was he captured?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0265	Don't you know the port of Mersin?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0181par0266	Tell me, who caught him, where did he catch him?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0267	What's the catch, bro? He didn't get caught. That's where our problem is?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0181par0268	He didn't show up. Where's he gonna get caught?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0269	No drugs, he says. Dude, even the container numbers have been published. Are you so ignorant of the world?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0181par0271	The Colombian official made a statement.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0272	He came in the ice chests, my friend. Are you so clueless?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0181par0273	There'll be a CHP after him, you'll see. CHP's gonna come up behind it, CHP's gonna come up behind it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0274	And therefore, never, ever... as long as you give this support, you'll drag Turkey into a drug swamp.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0182par0275	What about the movement? What about that move?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0176par0276	Look, let me tell you something else.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0183par0277	Is it right or is it good for you?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0182par0278	Shame on you! That's no way to act.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0183par0279	Do you look good in your act?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0184par0280	Dear friends, respected lawmakers, we all have to have a problem with drugs.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0182par0281	What about that move, that move?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0183par0282	As a female proxy, I condemn you, and I don't accept what you're doing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0185par0283	We're fighting the biggest challenge.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0284	If you make special laws to launder black money for drug lords to bring their billions to Turkey, you will have a serious impact on the reputation of the Republic of Turkey; they have done so many times, past the law. [[Applause from CHP rows]] They say: 'You're smuggling drugs through Turkey now...' 'South America, the ports here...' Do you know why there are big fights for these ports,' you ever ask? Why are they eating each other? Why do they say that I will fall into this port, and I will fall into it? 'Cause where's this drug gonna go? Guys, he's coming to the docks. We're not doing any research on this, so why don't you do some research?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0185par0287	He came and didn't get caught?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0288	No, sir, what in God's name did he get caught? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0185par0289	Mr. Kilicdaroglu...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0290	Go look at the poor wretch's children, look at them all. They get those poor parents' kids used to it, then they make dealers. Have you talked to the police about this? We talked, we talked.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0185par0291	We got the sentence up to ten years.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0292	What a ten-year-old friend, and three days later, you're taking him out.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0185par0293	Not at all.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0294	They took out Zindashti, didn't your conscience ache? He was the biggest drug lord in this area.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0185par0295	We're increasing the execution law.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0296	What death law, bro? What Execution Act? You don't know the world. They called this guy, the judge dropped him off. You didn't even read the judge's statement? I'm amazed. I'm really surprised. How can someone so ignorant of the world talk about drugs? Yeah, I'll give you an expert, I'll give you an expert. [[The voices of the CHP's ranks (Bravo) applaud; the noise from the AK PARTI's ranks]] Look, they've caused so much degeneration, they've done justice, they've done justice. Yeah, can you imagine?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0187par0299	Are you going to apologize for your actions?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0300	First you seize a man's assets...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0187par0301	You didn't apologize for your actions.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0302	First you confiscate him, then you release him, then you remove all the foreclosures in his estate, then you lift his curfew, and he runs away. America says, "Give this man to Austria." And we say, "Give it to me, not to him."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0188par0303	What CHP people did he meet with?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0304	And my dear friends...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0189par0305	Do you look good in your act?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0306	My dear friends, here's the thing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0190par0307	I don't know which CHP...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0308	The Home Secretary also boarded this person's plane. A lot of guys got on this person's plane.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0190par0309	What CHP people...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0310	A lot of these guys got on, they're protecting them. They're protecting them, and I know they're protecting them, and I know exactly what they're doing. Do you think we're not investigating anything?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0190par0311	What CHP people did he meet with?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0186par0312	This brother is reaching places you can't. There are decent people in this state, there are honest people in this state, there are patriotic people in this state, there are bureaucrats in this state who love their flag. Even if you throw them away, they explain their thoughts. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, dear friends, you've ruined the judgment, they've done it. Yeah, go home, I swear to God, ask your college kid. You take the person, you bring the person -- sir -- and you say...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0191par0315	What you're doing...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0192par0316	Go on, go on.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0193par0317	The students on the road...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0318	Friends, this is Yeliz. [[♪ Laughing, clapping from CHP rows ♪]] You take and bring the person, and then you say to this person, since you've followed all the instructions I've given you, I'm going to make you a Supreme Court member first, and then I'm going to make you a member of the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0195par0321	Are you ashamed of your actions?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0322	Those who did not implement the Constitutional Court verdicts, those who did not implement the European Court of Human Rights verdict, all were promoted.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0196par0323	I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0324	I promise I'll clean it all up. You have my word. (CHEERING) Justice will come to this country or will come to this country. We'll defend the rights of the undamaged orphan to the fullest. You can't defend it, you can't defend it, you can't come between the people, you can't talk to the citizens, so they tell you to make a statement. (EC PARTY rankings) I do not associate the appointment of a so-called Supreme Court member who has no signature under a Supreme Court under a single Supreme Court decision with the glory, honour, honour of the Republic of Turkey; so clearly, so clearly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0197par0326	If the CHP headquarters had a lawyer...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0327	I say to the members of the Supreme Court, and to the members who voted for it, and to the members who voted for it, that you have left a black mark on the Supreme Court's history. And you, my friend, this guy just got here, there are people here who have been working in the Supreme Court for years, there are decent people, and one of them has to be a member of the Supreme Court. They didn't say, they didn't say, most of it. They've been instructed from the palace, they've done what was necessary. There will be no justice if the judgment works by order.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0198par0328	Apologize, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0199par0329	Apologize to everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0330	You're waiting for the Qatars to come here, the Crown Prince to come here, sell ASELSAN? You're going to sell ROKETSAN? We won't, we won't. No worries... we won't sell it. You sold the tank palette to the Qatars, didn't you?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0200par0331	The defense industry...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0332	Where's that tank? They're making tanks at 2018. What year is it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0200par0334	We'll sell drones, drones.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0335	Where's that tank? Did you trust Ethem Sandzak? Ethem Sandzak will build tanks?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0201par0336	Apologize to everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0200par0337	80%...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0338	We're going to say no to this budget, we're going to say no to this budget. We're going to say no to this budget that framed this nation for 83 million because it's a budget that collects money from the poor, from the poor, from the weird, from the gureba to a bunch of loan sharks, loan sharks, dollars barons and drug lords in London, and we're never going to accept it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0200par0340	Either you say no to everything, or you say no to the thesis...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0341	Look, let me tell you something else...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0200par0342	And you say no to the counter.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0343	We'll talk about the thesis, we'll talk about the thesis. Did your General President ever ask when 33 of our soldiers were killed? He can't. (CHEERING) Where'd he go? He went to Putin's door and begged Putin.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0202par0344	You're going to apologize to everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0345	The President of the Republic of Turkey is standing outside the door, the stopwatch is running, showing how long they've been waiting, the whole world is watching. Didn't your conscience hurt? Yeah, well, I'm uncomfortable. You don't mind?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0202par0347	You're going to apologize to everyone for this inappropriate act.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0203par0348	I'm not comfortable with your...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0349	We'll say no to this budget and send them, God willing. We'll send them along, along with the tradesman, with the farmer, with the retired, with the industrialist, with his wife, with his daughter, with his old man, with his young, with his strange guru, you'll see.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0204par0350	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0351	They won't bring the chest, they won't, sir, they won't.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0204par0352	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0353	Detonation, explosion!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0204par0354	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0355	Detonation! And I'll tell you something else: look, they know they're leaving.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0205par0357	Watch your hand!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0358	Why are you shouting? Why are you shouting? Is there something wrong with what I said? No, it's all true, it's all true.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0205par0359	Don't move your hand! Keep your hands to yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0360	Look, I'll tell you one thing: when you get home, ask your kid if he's got any brains.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0206par0361	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0194par0362	I've given up elementary school, so ask your mentally ill child.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0207par0364	Shame on the kids!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0208par0365	The kids can't watch you, they can't watch you. How can the kids watch that move? I don't.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0209par0366	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0210par0367	Oh, for God's sake, look...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0211par0368	Keep your hands to yourself! Take care of that hand!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0210par0369	President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0211par0370	Take care of your hand!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0210par0371	We had a good talk.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0211par0372	Take care of your hand!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0210par0373	You'll come here, you'll talk here, you'll talk here, you'll talk here, you'll talk here!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0211par0375	Keep your hands to yourself, keep your hands to yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0212par0376	Sit down, you rascal!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0213par0377	You can't run without Demirtaş's permission!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0211par0378	Keep your hands to yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0214par0379	Calm down.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0380	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, they know very well they're leaving. You'll say why, and you'll say, "Why?"
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0216par0381	You can't run without Demirtaş's permission!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0217par0382	Keep your hands to yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0383	Yeah, the deal for the Antalya Outline Terminal is in five years, and you're doing it now.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0217par0384	Keep your hands to yourself, keep your hands to yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0385	Why are you doing it now, why are you doing it now?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0218par0387	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0388	I'll get the fuse from the nose of the guy who bought that terminal contract, take that terminal building. After five years of bidding, why are you bidding now? On what grounds is he now bidding?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0218par0389	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0390	You can't protect an orphan's rights, you're with the dollar barons, you're with the loan sharks.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0218par0391	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0392	This brother of yours is the poor man's poor man's poor man's poor man's...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0219par0393	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0218par0394	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0395	...the janitor's office, the unemployed, the officer's...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0220par0396	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0397	He's everyone's friend.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0221par0400	Are you a candidate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0401	This budget has nothing to offer you. You'll see what happens when this budget is accepted.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0221par0402	You can't run without Demirtaş's permission!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0215par0403	Mr. President, thank you very much. Friends can keep talking.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0222par0406	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0223par0408	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0224par0409	Mr. Ünal, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0223par0410	Mr. President, Mr. President, even though this House has no reputation left, although it has used its statement, the reputation of this House, the Veteran Assembly, is also appropriate. In violation of the general moral code of a general president on the stand, according to the Civil Code 160...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0224par0412	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0223par0413	See, the Civil Code says it is forbidden to use harsh and hurtful words and to act, and it requires the punishment of reproach. Here, Mr. President is talking about children. (CHP rows) Ladies, children, our own children watching us, I'm ashamed of his actions on my behalf. I demand that you take a break, consider it, and be punished with contempt.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0225par0414	You're not ashamed of the truth, are you?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit03spe0224par0415	Mr. Ünal, I didn't see it from here. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger. I'm going to watch the video, we're going to evaluate it, I'm going to invite the Deputy Directors of the Group.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0224par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] The commission is in place. Dear friends, Mr. Kilicdaroğlu will make a special statement regarding the speech he just made. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0226par0011	Mr. President, thank you. Once again, we hope that budget talks will be good for our House, for our nation. Just moments ago, Mr. President, during his budget speech on the stand, we heard a lot of ruling party MPs express a disturbance, and you witnessed it. And then we went inside, and we watched the footage together. One, the incident... Of course, at that moment, our friends may have been even more impressed by hearing from ear to ear, but the sentence was borrowed from the outside by a large amount of dollars and put on our backs. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, APPLAUSE]
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0227par0014	Guys, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0226par0015	I can't...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0227par0017	Friends... friends, please... I promised. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0226par0019	We saw it when we evaluated the image with sound. In this regard, as the Republican People's Party, we would like to point out that you put this burden on our backs there by the President General. In his sentence, we express that the body language he showed is not directed at any group or parliament, but is not directly independent of the body language that we all use in the platform talks. Given the circumstances of this type of behavior and behavior, when you look at the person's character...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0227par0022	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0226par0023	...from any discussion that our President will not act against any group or parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0228par0025	Mr. Special, all right, let's do it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0226par0026	We present the situation to the information of all groups and the office of Riyaset. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0228par0028	Okay, okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0229par0029	Thank you. Guys... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, there are three things Mr. Kilicdaroglu has mentioned in his speech, and I will make a statement about them. The first was the claim that the Court's report had been changed. He invited me on a mission about it. Let me put it this way: Court reports come to the House under the signature of the Court of Justice. There's no change, no extradition, no changes in the reports that come in here. In the process of forming reports within the Court itself, if there is anything to be said, it is not an issue that concerns the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the presidency. Second, the talk is not answered by those who look at 27,323 questions before the end of the 27th term. Right now, there are also statements in the documents I submitted to the Plan and Budget Commission on November 30th, and as of November 30th, I'm not releasing any new information -- it's current, but I'm using it because everyone has information -- the number of unanswered questions is 18.791. [[Noises from CHP rows]] You might want to wait for the rest. Of course, all questions are desired to be answered, but in the 27th term, as of November 30th, the proportion of answers to questions is 64.44 percent. 45.4 per cent during the 26th century, when there was a different government system. Again, 60.3 per cent during the 24th century, when there was no new government system. Therefore, the 27th term is higher in terms of the answer to the 26th or 24th term, when the new government system exists. I'd like to add another piece of information to that. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows]] Friends, let's talk information, based on information. In the previous period, before the 27th century, the period of answering questions in the Civil Charter was about thirty days, and when fifteen days were not answered, the writing was written, and after the article, ten extra days were given; a total of thirty days. These are the proportions of the 26th and 24th centuries that I've given you over 30 days. Thus, in the 27th term here, it has been reduced to fifteen days - a question that has not been answered for more than fifteen days. Finally, a third issue was: The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a duty given to the President of the Grand National Assembly, the Constitution, and the Civil Code, and there are benchmarks for which he will evaluate the questions proposed. According to these criteria, the Parliament Speaker has to evaluate the question motion, a duty given by the Civil Code and the Constitution, but does not give the President of the Constitution and the Interior Charter a review, an evaluation of the answers to the questions. I don't have the ability to examine the answers by giving myself a mission, a warrant. It is our duty to act according to the Civil Code and the Constitution, and it is our duty to do so. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0230par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0229par0042	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0230par0043	The president of the Republican People's Party has just returned to me during his speech...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0229par0045	Guys, wait a minute... let's hear it. Wait a minute... wait a minute... The mask...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0230par0047	He's made a personal taunt, so he's entitled to...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0229par0048	Let's take a look at the text, shall we?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0230par0049	I'd like to answer that from the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0050	Not on the stand anyway, the session's changed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0229par0051	Wait a minute... let me see, I'm gonna get this thing taken off.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0052	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0229par0053	Dear friends, now, the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0054	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0229par0055	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0056	Mr. President, we have the same idea that it would be right for us to write and you to answer the Court's reports on the first issue -- reciprocally -- to ask you in writing. The second issue is on the unresolved motion that Mr. General President mentions during the period of time, the number you're referring to is based on the motion that has been answered all the time. However, you can appreciate that the question asked about a current discussion -- the Constitution did not put a day in Article 99 for nothing -- is meaningful if it is answered within 15 days. You ask a current question, and we don't count the answer eight months from now. In addition, the number you just made in your statement regarding the 27th term is 64-65 per cent in terms of response all the time. One, let's approach from the right place, 12 to 64 percent of the time.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0232par0060	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0061	It was 87 percent during the previous three-period coalition period, where you didn't like it and you constantly criticised it, with the rate of response and no constitutional obligation. After that, it dropped to 62 per cent, then 49 per cent, 22 per cent during the 24th term, and to 10.99 per cent during the 26th period. And our claim is that you've been defunctioning the House day after day, ignoring it. The criterion is in the middle, and there is no respect for Parliament at a point that is stretched from 90 per cent to 10 per cent. The final issue, Mr. President, is exactly what we call: our MP asks for a separate number for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, and you have answered, and you have sent it: it will be published in the annual report.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0232par0064	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0065	Again, our MP has repeatedly asked, saying: "The transfer aid on Syrian asylum seekers... is being answered: "This funds lie according to the rules set by the European Union under projects set by the European Union. " It is a criticism that the answer does not satisfy the question and you interfere with the content of the question, but you do not interfere with the answers. Several striking examples like this have been passed on to your position over and over again, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0232par0067	No, I don't understand the last one, so the Constitution and the Civil Code are giving me a job, and that's what I'm doing, and that's what you mean by not looking at the answers?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0068	Mr. President, the Constitution does not give anyone the right to stand up to themselves, to tolerate any abuse against themselves, and the right to do so. If there are questions to be answered, if you are looking at the content of the question, the answer to the question, brother, what did the man ask you, and what do you answer? That's not the answer. Once you say, "It's not the answer," and you send it back, there won't be any answers. Mr. Fuat Oktay has responded to 24 of the 100 questions asked to him, quoting the Constitution, copying the relevant legislation in 23° of 24...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0233par0069	Not 24 of them, but 75 of them were answered.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0070	Look, Mr. President, you know, I actually have a list of who's in the best position when you look at the proportion of questions being answered over the course of time. You're in the best position, Mr. President. You've answered 84 percent, which means it can be...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0234par0072	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0073	If this Congress is respected, this MP's question will be answered in time. Parliament Speaker will respond to 84 per cent, Vice President 24 per cent, National Minister of Defence 1.6 per cent; Interior Minister 2.4 per cent. If we do not learn to say wrong, we will remain silent against the disrespect of these ministers, these appointed ministers. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0234par0075	Mr. Special, you're telling me something else, and I say, does he have the authority to examine the answers that are coming? You're saying that the Constitution won't allow it. The Constitution says that no one and the body can use a state authority unless they're given authority from the Constitution. This constitution has given them authority for questions in particular, has given them a duty, has given them the Civil Code, has counted criteria in many articles, but there are no provisions concerning the answers; I can't apply to myself, it is against the Constitution. On the other hand, look...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0077	I'd have to ask the President of the Constitutional Commission at the time.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0234par0078	Look, wait a minute... so there's no need for encouragement. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu: See, 27,323 questions are not answered by the end of the 27th term. He says, "I don't see anything here; if you can get it out, it's not here, but it's here. So, I'll tell you something else here: I've explained the duration of the 27th term, which is 15 days in the 27th term; after 15 days, the sixteen days are past, but in your case, the period exceeds thirty days, sometimes thirty days. One more thing: The total number of questions in the 19th century, which you set as an example, is 7,550, and 56,738 questions in the 27th term.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0231par0080	He shows the weakness of the opposition at that time, the hard work of opposition at this time, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0234par0082	Yeah, well, everybody gets what they want. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0235par0084	Mr. President, Mr. President... OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0234par0090	Friends, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker is Deputy President and İstanbul MP, Mr. Numan Survivor. Here you go, Mr. Survivor. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0094	Mr. President, the esteemed presidents of our political parties, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I begin by saying, "By God, it is the beginning of every good. " I wish these budget talks to be a blessing and a blessing. I want to thank all of our fellow lawmakers, all of our brothers, from the beginning to today, who have contributed to these negotiations, who have worked so hard to get the budget here. Dear brothers, as you all know, budgets are a place of accountability from governments, correct. Budgets are where the resources and resources of the nation are somehow taken into account; true, but at the same time, budgets, the conditions of Turkey, the conditions in our region, and the conditions of the world's economic political general conditions, are the environments where we take courses that we need to evaluate tomorrow, where we have strong steps towards the futures of Turkey, for which we are negotiating budget talks on this scale. So, if you'll excuse me, first of all, in terms of being the beginning of budget talks, I would like to remind you once again that most of us know what the political impacts of political developments on the region and on Turkey are. For what it's worth, even if the pandemic crisis hadn't started in 2020, our world and region had faced extraordinary tensions, conflicts, and remarkable consequences. In the beginning, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, when the United States tried to lead the world economic policy on a unipolar basis, it was announced to the world that the period had ended, especially with the withdrawal of the palas pandiras from Afghanistan, and that the remarkable serious gaps on the global and regional scale have also affected the world's economy and the world's politics. In addition, from a two-way balance in the ancient polar world system, at the point where we came today, there was a multiple equation, and there have been developments in almost every region of the world where more than one force interfered. As a very natural result of this, we can all see from time to time that the developing economies of Asia began to force the world economic policy, especially with the rise of China, Russia, the European Union, China, and the United States. In fact, just last week, the European Union demonstrated its determination to develop a new global logistical project against China's road and generation project and make it a joint project of the European Union. In a speech I gave years ago when I was a spokesman for the government, the third world war had already begun economically. The developments we've experienced today suggest that these tensions, these conflicts, have been carried out in an extremely powerful way. We have no doubt that the global and regional conflicts in the three areas we've been talking about in particular over the years will shape the economic policy of the coming period. The water wars, food crises, and energy wars, and the recent issue of cyber security, will have a tremendous impact on the world. In this framework, all of these developments, so to speak, are the focus of the Caucasus, the Balkans, Mesopotamia, the Mediterranean, the Black Sea, the geography that we are in, and the flagship of this geography, Turkey, there is no possibility or possibility that any of these developments will become big. For him, these global and regional developments have forced Turkey to be much more vigilant, again showing a much stronger and stronger obligation to embrace the ideal of Turkey. Turkey's strength in all areas is not only a political option, but a necessity that our circumstances and geography compel us to do so. We will continue our journey by increasing our unity, by raising the standards of our democracy, by making our economic system strong and competitive, and perhaps more importantly, by putting our national security ahead of everything else, by taking further steps in our national defense. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers, on the basis of the importance of this issue alone, it has only recently been expressed -- that our progress in the national industry has reached a national and domestic area of about 80 per cent, as it is clear that Turkey has to obtain important national warfare equipment in the navy to protect the blue country, not just in the land and the airport. We need to see clearly that none of these discussions concerning Turkey are just to criticize Turkey's opportunities. For example, the fact behind Turkey's efforts to align the islands directly under our noses or to keep the S-400 debates on the agenda or to keep them in line through the F-35 debates is this: because these imperial forces know that if Turkey continues its march, it will set up a national defence system, build its own domestic, national engine. For him, we have to present this obligation as a target over parties. Turkey has to be a strong and great Turkey in all areas. It has also been expressed, and the oppressed and victims in many parts of the world are looking into Turkey's eyes and believing that Turkey's strong presence in this geography is necessary for their own. After this entry, my fellow lawmakers, unfortunately, as this global and regional development continued, we also faced a global crisis that would have been very serious since January 2020, which would have been difficult to see over the centuries. This crisis has affected every country in the world, rocked every economy in the world. It's obviously affecting Turkey, it's moderate, but I find it helpful to remind you of a few issues we all know. We all know that even the great countries of the world have collapsed in access to the collapse of health systems and the vaccine, and even the vaccine, to get to the basic medicine and material to prevent Covid. In the same way, I would like to stress that the inequality of the vaccine is a new element that will increase the global distribution of income and injustice. In parallel with this, the extraordinary increase in commodity prices -- especially in industrial metals -- increased by about twice the amount of dollars on the basis of dollars, increased by 20 to 30 percent in precious mines, increased by about 35 per cent in Brent oil, and increased by 345 per cent in natural gas -- has also shaken the world's economy deeply. The increases in food prices, the breaking of supply chains, and especially the severe damage to the service sectors have had negative effects on the world's economy. So, in these pandemic conditions, Turkey has tried to do its part with maximum effort, and in that sense Turkey has achieved a success -- that is not the question of politics -- that we should all see. Turkey was positively separated from the world's economies by its performance during the pandemic, giving a better performance than the world's developed countries. In this sense, I'm not going to waste your time with numbers, but the high development in the healthcare sector is closely related to the performance that has been established and the ability to be able to achieve vaccines far above the population of Turkey. We also tried to implement our policies by keeping the maximum balance between health issues on one side and Turkey's economic realities on the other. As a result, we moved on in a way that would never allow production to stop, to stop production. In this sense, the support was expressed here again -- I won't enter the ranks -- but I would also like to remind you that the support given during the pandemic in Turkey alone is 13.1 per cent of the informal domestic diet. We also know that social benefits to those in need have been avoided by social welfare. One of the major achievements in this framework is that the budget balance has been established as a result of Turkey's measures. This budget corresponds to about 1.7 per cent budget deficits, which, given that the world average is 4.5 per cent, we are dealing with a remarkable success and a government programme that has put the budget deficit in place. Again, my dear brothers and sisters, under these measures, there is no denying that there are tremendously important, positive developments in the Turkish economy. It's the performance of strong growth that comes first. Sir, it is impossible to assess the economy by denying Turkey's growth performance. Turkey's world economy average, the OECD average is 4-5 per cent, and I thought it was a little over 9, but it seems that in 2021 -- God willing -- Turkey's economy will grow by 10 per cent and become one of the world's largest growth countries. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's a powerful production that makes strong growth. In this sense, I would like to point out to you, as an objective indicator, that capacity usage rates are extremely high. The Industrial Production Index is a fact that we all know that the Industrial Production Index has been watching at 24 per cent for nine months. The capacity for use has reached a significant record level of 78.1 per cent. I'd like to say that the matter of not disbanding the station that I just passed on with a sentence is something that all the major economic crises of the world have taught us. This is one of the most fundamental lessons in recent financial crises in Europe, and in the times before that, in the crises facing Asian economies. There's no way those who distribute the counter are ever going to be able to clean up the counter again. What you're going to do, what you're going to do, you're not going to mess up the counter. With that idea, we continued to power the economy. My dear brothers, with the same measures taken this year, non-advised employment -- that's an objective figure -- has reached 24 million. Outside of agriculture, employment is an objective figure measuring the level of employment and has risen to the level prior to its pandemic. Finally, with strong growth, strong employment, strong production and strong budget balance, Turkey continues to take steps to eliminate its current open problem. Mr. President, there is a direction in front of the high-profile lawmakers that Turkey will no longer change in any way from now on. This is a political path that we've been heading for since May 2013. Not just today... what happened in 2013? In 2013, Turkey's economy reached a 4.5 per cent interest rate, a historical bottom. The IMF, which has been on Turkey's back for nearly 50 years, has continued its course, in line with the decline of interest rates, by putting the IMF burden aside in May. Since then, we have also begun to strengthen the strong big Turkish ideal in the economic political field, which values real economics, prioritizes production, wants to take part in exports and global competition with products and brands. Neoliberal dissertations, which sat on the poverty of the poor, which had been practiced in the past and were brutally dictated by neoliberal dissertations, began to be abandoned from May 2013. In this framework, high interest, in this sense, with low courtship policies, Turkey has unfortunately become an import paradise. My brothers from the Black Sea knew that in all the cities of the Black Sea, there were Russian markets, cheap goods for three cents, and goods for five cents would be sold in Turkey. The property of some foreign countries in Yeşildirek, which is the centre of Turkey's trade, was unfortunately sold there. From then on, we've seen... oh, and I'll tell you, some of them are now uncomfortable with us finding natural gas in the Black Sea, and they say: "Why are you dealing with natural gas in the Black Sea? Go to cheaper, half price, you'll find it in the world markets.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0237par0111	Who are they, who are they?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0112	What, brother, are you still not smart? English has a good saying: It's not a meal, it's not always a meal. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Especially when the men say, "You will not do this in the eastern Mediterranean."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0238par0113	You condemned agriculture to imports.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0114	Who the hell are you? We'll do it. There'll be a Turkey calling it. Don't open Ayasofya. They'll say, "Who are you?" We'll open Ayasophia. You'll say. They will say, "Who are you?" They will say, "Don't open the closed Marash." They will say, "You will open it, don't take your nose out of the Mediterranean." They will say, "You will declare your economic zones in the Mediterranean, protecting the rights of Cyprus and Turkey." (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Is that so? This Turkey must become a strong and large country in this atmosphere, in this geography. Turkey will never be a country that is the hub for global markets. We'll do all our productions in national areas. Look, I just said something, and it didn't go away, and I know what I'm saying, and I know where the biggest competition in the world economy is. There are seven nuclear weapons in the world, only five countries can build aircraft engines. If this goes on, Turkey will build its own national aircraft engine and compete with the world at a time when the majority of people in this hall will see it. When I say that, I know the F-35 pushers are uncomfortable.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0238par0115	What about the tank engine?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0116	I know when I say that, it's uncomfortable for those who argue about the S-400. We will continue on our way to the mighty, great Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0239par0117	Where are the S-400?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0118	We'll never do three things walking in this direction...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0239par0119	The S-400s are in the warehouse, in the warehouse, in the S-400.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0120	We won't fall into the high interest of neoliberal dissertations, the low currencies, that way we won't walk.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0240par0122	You did this.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0123	I'm taking notes, and I know what that means. Secondly, we will never, ever, ever enter the shadow of the institutions of international economic custody centers, especially the IMF, under their political command.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0241par0126	You did five and a half years.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0127	My dear brothers, I am well aware of how some of those who have criticised this work today set up the basis for Turkey's drift towards Duyümiye, in the past 19th IMF Protocol. God bless you, Mr. President was then Prime Minister and Recep Erdogan prevented signing the 19th Protocol. My dear friends, we will never again be drawn to the IMF and to the line of international economic care institutions.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0241par0129	You dropped it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0130	And thirdly, we're not going to fall into this trap, the issue of the budget deficit and the current deficit that we've been criticizing over the years, especially one of the most important gaps in the economy during our history of the republic, especially in our multi-party political lives. With these three basic parameters, we will build together the future of Turkey, which glows like a star in production, investment, employment, exports and global competition, and we will build the great Turkey, the mighty Turkey, together.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0242par0132	Why didn't you set it up in 20 years?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0133	When you say all that...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0243par0134	They waited 20 years.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0135	I'll be there. Be patient. When you say all that...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0243par0137	Twenty more years...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0138	I'll come, a little patience; the end of patience is peace. My dear brothers, I don't mean to say that everything is a rose, everything is going our way, that there are no difficulties for our citizens in Turkey. We know exactly what's happening, what our citizens are affected by in these difficult processes, but we're trying to do everything we can to ensure that our citizens don't get crushed by rising prices while our priority is to reduce inflation, reduce budget deficits and current deficits. I just want to say that while we're having these discussions here today, and we're actually getting the General Assembly nervous with words that are a little out of context, our Ministry of Labor and Social Security has all the parts of our society waiting, and when we're all of our citizens are gone, please take care of them. Please share their important decisions with the public about what he said. He has decided to increase the salaries of all officers and pensioners by 30 to 35 percent. Because it was taken to doctors last week, and we're moving on by expanding it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0244par0140	You got it back, back up.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0141	And we're moving on, not just to the doctors, but also to our health workers. Not just these employees, but the pensioners, we're on our way. After all, we talk about budgets, we don't give away our father's property, we don't give away our personal money in our pockets, we give them to the people of this nation, to the people of this nation, to the people of this legal budget, to give them to our nation. Good luck, good luck, good luck to our people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Also, at the end of the negotiations, the minimum wage talks, everyone... [[They were upset by the AK PARTY]] No, I don't see why they should be. It was given to the citizen, and I think they'll applaud, too.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0245par0146	People are hungry.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0246par0147	Let's organize it, and then...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0148	Now, my dear friends, in addition to these raises to the officers, at the end of the current minimum wage talks in Turkey, our entire nation is listening, and I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0245par0149	Don't be a spokesman for the palace, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0150	In this sense, we will set our nation's minimum wage as a minimum wage at the level of right, and we will share it with the public.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0245par0152	The court's spokesman is not fit for Numan Survivor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0153	Also, the teaching law that will be created... after these budget talks, hopefully with your support, we'll pass the teaching law and support our citizens, our teachers, strongly. We will make our SMEs stronger with interest-free loans by providing support to the less than 50 people employed by the SMEs, which is close to 100,000 lira per person. Again, in the same way, we will continue our production-support program within the scope of the action program. I don't want to explain any more of this.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0247par0156	You sold your opinions for your benefit.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0157	Dear brothers, just one more thing, and I'll share with you in the next chapter of what we just talked about. Dear brothers, I just said...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0247par0159	You sold society for personal gain.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0248par0160	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0161	I'll tell you later, Mr. Sertel. We'll tell you later.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0248par0162	Please, talk to me later.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0249par0163	You sold society, your own... you sold your party.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0164	Guys, now, I've told you about the rise in natural gas and fuel.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0248par0165	Then you can talk outside together.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0166	In the meantime, despite these increases in Brent Oil and natural gas, Turkey has supported and continued to support our citizens by paying a quarter of the cost of natural gas.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0250par0168	You sold out the people who believed in you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0169	In the same way, we're on our way by taking the OTV from the fuel. We're trying to prevent our citizen from being overwhelmed by inflation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0251par0170	Ten liras, ten liras!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0250par0171	You sold out the walkers behind you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0172	Hopefully, we'll be able to carry out those supports in a much stronger way. Mr. President, for the last five minutes, I'd like to express my opinion on some of the issues spoken here. First of all, the language that people speak reveals who you are, who you are. We believe that all of our fellow lawmakers in this House, if they want clean politics, speak in a clean language, is also a sign of their own personalities. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) His voice, applauds]] And I would also like to say to all of our friends in this group, all of whom are individuals, all of whom are honorable, all of whom are patriots, all of whom are in public, all of whom are in love with their people, all of whom are in love with their people, all of whom are in public, all of whom are fighting for the nation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0177	You said the opposite in the past, you said the opposite in the past.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0178	I salute not only our MPs, but the valued members of our organization, women and youth, who are not here, and I congratulate them all for their service to the nation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0180	What did you say when you were in the hospital, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0181	Besides, I'm the poor one trying to travel all over Asia Minor. Yeah, where we're going, where we're going, people have criticism. If it weren't for this one, it'd be like this. But behind him...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0182	You said we wouldn't be as rich as Karun.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0183	Wait a minute, hold it right there.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0184	It's the size of...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0185	Mr. Sertel, I'm telling you, one minute, one minute, one minute, one minute.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0186	They became as rich as your wife. You said, you confessed, I heard with my ears. I heard it with my ears, my ears, you said it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0253par0187	Mr. Sertel, my friend, I promise you, this is not gonna happen.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0188	I'll say it again.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0190	When I was elected President of the Saadet Party in 2008, I said, "I won't come like Aaron and go like Karun," and I made a statement to Turkish political history that would be a motto.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0191	You did, of course.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0192	Did I say something bad or did I say something wrong? And I've been behind that promise my whole life, and it's my greatest legacy to my children.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0194	Who did you say it for?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0195	Those who don't have anything to say now don't say things like that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0196	Tell me who you said it for.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0197	My dear brothers, my dear brothers...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0198	Look, it takes courage, guts, say it, guts, say it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0254par0199	Guys, Mr. Sertel, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0200	You've got your answer, my friend, you've got your answer.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0252par0201	You told me, you told me, you told me about Recep Erdogan, for Recep Erdogan.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0254par0202	Talking to each other...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0203	Friends... you have your answer. Did I say something bad?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0254par0204	It's coming to ruin the working order now.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0205	Then you'll get up and say something bad here.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0255par0206	You let him go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0207	Dear friends...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0256par0208	He's as rich as his wife, you said.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0210	Dear friends, that's what people do when they have nothing to say. Besides, I don't want to give you numbers, but I'll give you one. A lot's been said about the interest issue. In 2001, the share from the budget to interest is 47.2%; in 2002, the share from the budget to interest is 43.2%; in 2021, the share from the budget to interest is 11.9%. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) At least...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0257par0211	$516 billion, $516 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0212	Look at the size of the budget, Mr. Master, according to the size of the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0257par0213	That's how it works.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0214	It's one thing to talk in a 300 billion-dollar budget, one thing to talk in a 1.7 trillion-dollar budget. Look at the account, the account.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0257par0215	The state is the same state, the state is the same state.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0216	You're a mathematician, you know that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0258par0217	Mr. Hodja, you're an economist, lower.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0257par0218	With $240 billion, the wheels of this state are turned, and you've spent $516 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0219	Dear brothers, now, I have to say one more thing. What did you do in AFAD? During the disaster, our entire group and I visited both the fires and the sites of the flood in Kastamon and Sinop, where there was a small disaster. May Allah never bring such disaster upon our people again. Our friends here in Ayancik district of Sinop, and on the day after the earthquake, a friend of ours, in the night after that, all the generators were sent down to the villages with helicopters, everything was done locally, so that governors were assigned to cities that were supposed to be run by skims, so that they could be done better. Oh, yeah? I apologize to the President of the United States, who came before friends of our governors and then told the televisions. I'm a man who's been punished for insulting the President and served 15 days in prison, but God bless them, they're doing such good service, and they've never left this nation hungry in any way. Tell the president my congratulations, my thanks. I apologize. He said that in front of the TVs. (AK PARTY) So, we have put Turkey's fight against disaster, especially in the summer months, to a very serious test, thank God. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you have a minute?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0259par0222	Yeah, yeah. Here you go, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0224	My dear brothers, I see a logical error in the matter of the Council's reputation. Let's make our coven more respectable together. The reputation of parliament is a direct link to how the House conducts negotiations. Our citizens watch these talks, but if you say, "This Parliament is disreputable, there is nothing in this Parliament. " [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Don't they ask the man: Two hundred and eighty-seven hours when he's speaking for the government in his opening speech... it's a shame, it's a sin! If we're all disreputable, we're all disreputable; if this House doesn't have dignity, why did we talk for two hundred and eighty-seven hours in the Plan and Budget Commission? Twelve days from morning to night, none of us are gonna change anyone's mind with a half hour of conversation, an hour of conversation, but...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0260par0228	We couldn't change a dollar, we couldn't change a dollar; we couldn't change a dollar; we couldn't change an AK PARTY group; they couldn't change a dollar. No mistakes at all?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0230	Erhan Bey, look, the rate of change in the Turkish Republic's budget by 1990 -- we looked into these -- is only 2 per cent, year-on-year.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0260par0231	So there's willpower.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0232	It brings government to the Plan and Budget Commission, where mistakes are made, corrections are made. Dear brothers, if the House doesn't have dignity, Mr. President will leave this meeting, let's go, let's all go home. The House has a reputation, and hopefully, we'll use it to the fullest.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0261par0234	It says here... There's no Minister signing it!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0237	My dear brothers, now that Mr. Kilicdaroglu is gone, I wish he would have listened to us here. I've never insulted anyone in my life, said anything other than what I meant to anyone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I stand by every word I've said my whole life.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0262par0240	Wait a minute, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0241	One minute.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0262par0242	One minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0244	When Mr. Kilicdaroglu spoke here last time -- again he gave such a heated speech -- we said: "Mr. Kilicdaroglu, will he announce the presidential nomination?" I clearly saw that Kılıçdaroğlu was a little bit closer to running for president this year, but it is not our place to name this place, it is not our place to do so. The words of the representatives of the precious opposition parties are out there, and we have listened to them with appreciation and respect; I will not say anything in any way; but we have already been told that they are elected, and Mr. Sancar Hajji said, "Istifa." Dear friends, the matter of resignation and early elections is okay, but they have the right and responsibility to tell the community what kind of system this system is first and which presidential candidate they're going to meet. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear brothers and sisters, the last word: all of our conversations are here on record. Not like the writings written on the water, but to rebuild every action, every word we say, a strong Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0263par0249	Your House Speakership has stopped, it's curvature. It's beneath you to speak for the court.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0236par0250	Every step we make, along with the oppressed and the oppressed nations, we will make a new and righteous world. Godspeed, I offer my greetings and love to our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0264par0252	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0265par0253	Mr. President, I believe you have my request.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0264par0254	I said I'd make a promise to the group after they're done, and I've done it before. Let it be over, then, God willing. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the second speaker is İstanbul MP Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0266par0259	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you all. I'd like to thank everyone who's been working on the budget. It's a really demanding process to get budgeted and brought to this stage. Dear friends, of course, the budget is a text that affects all parts of society. In fact, every year, 30 per cent of national income is collected and distributed by budget law. So governments talk to their budgets, so where they stand... the words don't mean much, everyone says everything, naturally, but what's important is that their real intentions reflect with power, governments, budgets, and talk with budgets. Now, the budget is also a text that authorises the collection of revenues and the making of expenditures, and if the Supreme Assembly does not grant that authority, these expenditures cannot be made, revenues cannot be collected. You know, a key item of budgets is being transferred to local administrations, municipalities. As of the 2021 figures, we know that over 100 billion dollars per year, a budget source is transferred to municipalities, and we need to say that the city's income is mainly due to the budget. If the Turkish Grand National Assembly does not give this authority, these resources cannot be transferred to municipalities. Thus, with the approval of us, all of us, as parliaments, these revenues are transferred from tax revenues to municipalities.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0267par0263	More.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0266par0264	Thus, it is of utmost importance to the municipalities whether these resources have been used properly or not. So a number over 100 billion dollars per year is being sent to municipalities -- a very serious number -- and we need to question whether the municipalities actually spend them in the interest of the public, in the interest of the people, in the interest of the people, in the interest of their interests. It's also the duty of lawmakers, lawmakers who approved that budget, all of us. The largest source passed through this framework is transferred to Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality; of course, it is transferred to all municipalities, but the largest source is naturally transferred to Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. So we wanted to get into a little bit of detail about how these resources are being used, how goods and services are being bought, and how we transfer them to Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality as Parliament. First, of course, public institutions do their spending according to the rules set by public tender legislation. Naturally, Mr. Kilicdaroglu and other worthy friends from the opposition have brought them up all the time. In this regard, Istanbul's Metropolitan Municipality made a total of 11.415 tenders from July 1, 2019 to November 12, 2021. The contract, the tender, that's the source of the spending, that's the way to spend it. That's why we're going over this in detail. He held 1,624 of these tenders with open bids. 1.624 of the 11.415 tenders were carried out by open bidding method, which is the way competition was provided, and 9.791 was done by closed means, such as the method of negotiation or so on. So direct management sends invitations to the person to buy goods and services, or calls them to negotiate, which he determines himself. So instead of the competition method... 1,624 of the 11.415 bids were done in an open bidding method... 9.791 by closed tender method. However, 804 of the 1,624 tenders made by this open tender were received by the municipal companies, and the municipality's companies gave them to them in a non-open tender method. What does that mean? This means that, in fact, 804 of the tenders considered to be 1,624 open bids are actually not actually open tenders, but 1,624, 804.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0268par0265	The group in Istanbul has deemed the vice presidents in the capital city inadequate. The group in the city saw that the vice presidents were inadequate, so they're doing the work there.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0266par0266	Now, look, dear friends, this Parliament has decided to send those funds there, sent them to the budget. We're talking about the budget, we're talking about the money, and we need to ask where all the money we sent, all the money we authorized, is being spent. You all have the right, we have the right, and I have the right as the Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0269par0268	Tell Tofiq Göksu to resign, he can't do it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0266par0269	So you have nowhere to run, dear friends.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0270par0270	Why don't you chase him, and I'll run? Look who's chasing you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0269par0271	He can't do it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0266par0272	Now, I said that 804 of the remaining 1,624 bids were done indirectly in a closed tender method.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0269par0273	Well, come to Ankara.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0271par0274	Let's look at Fatma Şahin. Look at Fatma Şahin.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0266par0275	When we look at the rest of them, actually, dear friends, I'm going to share the numbers one by one.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0271par0276	Shall we take a look at Kayseri? Will Kayseri be next?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0266par0277	All of those were done in closed bids.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0272par0278	Will you come to Iconia?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0271par0279	Will Kayseri be next? Are we going to be able to talk about lconium? If we're going to talk, why are we only talking about Istanbul?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0273par0280	Why is there a city council there?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0274par0281	Call it what you want. And I'll tell you this: only five of these tenders were broadcast live on TV, only five.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0271par0282	Is Tafiq Göksu so inadequate?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0273par0283	Is this the National Assembly or the City Council?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0275par0284	Let us also come to the late Kadir Topbaş.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0271par0285	Is Tofik Göksu so unsuccessful?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0286	Three of them have been canceled, and none of the others have been published.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0271par0287	Are we going to talk about Tripoli?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0288	Now, I've chosen seven of these tenders that seem to be open, I've taken them, I've studied them in detail. What tenders are these? The bus maintenance and repair contracts are huge numbers. I'll share it one by one. The tender, dated 26/11/2019; the figures of the 23,427km bus maintenance and repair service tender; dear friends, 4 companies participate in the tender.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0277par0289	This is not the Istanbul Metropolitan Assembly, but Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0290	About... and you're right to be disturbed, so I'll...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0277par0291	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish you'd tell me about Melih Skycel.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0292	You have every right to be disturbed. Four companies are participating, approximately 41 million 934 thousand. Do you know how much it costs? The highest figure set by the administration, the number generated in the tender, cannot exceed that amount.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0277par0293	Why don't you tell me about $750 million?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0294	And that's confidential, until when? It's confidential until the tender is made, and the bids have to be subsidized at this rate.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0277par0295	Istanbul has really corrupted your chemistry.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0296	How much does it cost? 41 million 934 thousand. What's the price of the tender, my dear friends? 41 million 231 thousand, which is almost the same as the cost figure. I told you, four firms have bid on it, the Akelsan firm has made a blank bid. There's a company called Aghaoglu Consulting, he didn't give me a letter of collateral, he's out of contract. There are two valid bids: 41 million 231K, Transport Internal and Foreign Trade Inc -- underline that name, please, remember, we're going to meet a lot -- and Otokar, which is 60 million, so that's a far higher price than the cost, which is not rational. So four companies were involved, two of them were cut out, two were offered, the tender was offered 41 million, which is almost the same as the cost of transportation to the Inland and Foreign Trade Corporation, which remained.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0278par0297	Is he on the side, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0298	Now, the second bid. Let me finish the bidding, and then we'll do our evaluations together, all of us. The tender, dated 9 February 2021, is a 51,000km bus maintenance and repair tender, cost approximately 271 million -- I'm passing the cubes -- and the tender is 262 million. Six firms are participating in the tender, and these two firms are out of contract because they don't give collateral, and these are the same firms: Aghaoğlu Consultancy and Taxi Contract. Zara Car Rental says thank you. The company, which bids from the other two companies -- Internal and Foreign Trade Love -- which is close to the cost, receives the same firm's tender.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0279par0300	Why are you discussing the budget of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality? We need to discuss Turkey's budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0301	Three, 11/3/2021 137 thousand kilometers, 638 bus maintenance tenders, dear friends, approximately $547 million.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0279par0302	You've come to the wrong place.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0280par0303	Are you a candidate or a candidate for the IBB? At least ask Mr. Buli if you're going to run. Maybe Mr. Bali has intentions again.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0304	The bid is $544 million, about $547 million, the bid is $544 million. Five companies attend the tender, three companies don't bid; Aghaoğlu Consultancy, Taxi Contract and Conquer 1453 companies don't give a letter of collateral, so look at this, and it's out of contract. And the Mercedes firm is shutting down because they don't give us enough documents, so who's the only company that's offering us a valid offer? It's a private company, and I'll tell you that a private firm is giving it to him, and he's taking the tender. There's no competition, no competition, and it's very close to the cost. Four, the tender dated March 9, 2021 is a 40,689km maintenance tender. Guys, everybody's got the plague on this, and you're gonna have to ask them before we do.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0281par0306	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0307	About 126 million liras. The price of the tender is 125 million liras. Five firms are participating in the tender. 3 firms are excluded from the tender because the same firms did not give a letter of assurances to Aghaoglu Consultancy, Taxim Contract, Fetih 1453.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0282par0308	The IBBB budget is being budgeted by the IBBC, and you have the majority.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0309	It's the same firm all by itself, what do you know?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0282par0310	The IBB Parliament is budgeting the IBB.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0283par0311	Guys, let's not interrupt the vet, please. Please, let's not disrupt our working order.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0312	The same firm wins the Inland and Foreign Trade Company.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0282par0313	Don't you have the majority?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0314	Yeah, let's move on, let's move on. The tender for 11/3/2021... I'm passing the details, about 157 million.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0282par0315	You have the majority, the majority.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0316	The tender is 156 million, look at the firm, and it's a hit like this, and it's about the cost -- I'll tell you again -- it's confidential, only the contractors know it, the contractors don't know it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0284par0317	You'd think it was an auction for Melih Gökçek.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0318	It costs about 157 million, hitting the bull's-eye, that kind of company.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0285par0319	You gave me the Tank Palette without bidding, without bidding.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0320	The bid is 156 million. Six firms are in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0285par0321	1 Kurusa...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0322	Four firms don't bid, their bids are invalid. Agaoğlu Consulting, Taxi Taahut, Feteh 1453, Öz Hijret Automotive is being shut down because they don't give temporary guarantees and the same company sends a thank-you letter to Mercedes, and the only offer of transportation and foreign trade is the only offer that is valid, no competition, no competition. Six, the tender dated 21/11/2019...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0286par0324	The majority of the IBBC is yours.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0325	It's about 41 million, 934,000, the bid -- 41 million, 231,000 friends.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0286par0326	You have the majority.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0287par0327	Where's 128 billion dollars? You answer for him.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0328	Three firms joined, one company invalid.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0287par0329	Mr. Canikli, where's 128 billion dollars?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0330	The other one's off-line, one company's down again, same company, same firm.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0287par0331	Answer me this.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0332	He bids alone, gets the contract, yeah, that's right. Now, fellas, do you know what the average discount rate for these seven bids is for about the cost? One percent.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0288par0333	The Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality's budget is voted in the IBB Parliament, and you have the majority in the IBB Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0334	In the EC PARTY period, what's the average yield rate of these tenders, what's the discount rate? 22 percent. 1%, all of it, all of it, look, for all of it. Oh, there's one, there's one, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's two, there's In any normal tender with competition, the number of tenders is certainly not close to the amount of cost...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0289par0336	You changed the law, you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0337	It's way below that. For example...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0289par0338	You've changed it 185 times.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0339	Now, I'm asking you, look, on average, the bids where the discount is 1 percent...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0289par0340	You've changed it 192 times.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0290par0341	Mr. Canikli looks like he's running for mayor of the IBBB, so I guess he's running for Tufik Göksu.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0343	What kind of tenders are they based on tenders where the sale is 22 percent? I ask you, you answer that, dear friends. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Now -- we're not done -- with this method -- look, it's a setup, it's an organization, it's a systematic organization.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0291par0346	The organization is in the palace, in the palace.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0292par0347	You have the Court, you have the prosecutor, you have the Metropolitan Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0348	The firms enter, only certain companies enter, and they say to those companies, "You give the missing documents, stay out of the tender."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0293par0349	Isn't the Public Contractorship overseeing it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0294par0350	The organization is in the palace, in the palace.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0351	About the cost figure is reported by the administration, said the firm, alone, who received the tender.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0293par0352	What were you doing then?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0353	Otherwise he won't be able to get that number, it's against the nature of things, one in a million. All of them, look, they've all been set up, the Ponzi scheme, a great organization.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0293par0354	Isn't there a public auction agency in this country?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0355	Let's see how much damage is being done to the city, the state, now, dear friends, let's see it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0295par0356	You have the majority of the Parliament in Istanbul, plus this is not the Istanbul Metropolitan Assembly!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0357	Look, there's a tender like this going on during the AK PARTY, 16/7/2018... please, listen, look, they're going to ask you about it tomorrow... because they're going to ask you about it, why didn't you answer for it? Maybe I'll hit him, too.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0296par0358	The Metropolitan Council... is this the place?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0295par0359	Not tomorrow, now. Send...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0360	During the EC PARTY, a similar tender is being made at 16/7/2018, 36,309 km and 532 bus maintenance tenders. What's the price per mile? About.93 liras. Look, this contract costs about 42 million friends. What's the number of bids? 33 million. I'm talking about, at about a cost -- I'm talking about the tender during the AC PARTY -- there's a 20% difference. So the number of tenders is 20 percent lower than the cost, and what's the price per kilometre? 0.93. Now, we're going to look at this, we're going to compare it to those tenders made during the CHP Mayor's term, and we're going to make the difference in terms of the robbery, in numbers, in numbers. Dear friends, they're all documented here, they're all fully documented, so rest assured, we're not saying anything without a warrant here. The first tender is, look, a year later, 20/11/2019. What's the cost about a year from now? It's as high as inflation, at most, in fact. The inflation rate is 20.5 in 2018. We're doing 25, we're doing 25, we're increasing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0297par0362	Mr. Canikli, explain to me who received the tenders in your power. Is this about Istanbul or unemployment?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0363	About the price of this unit, dear friends, what is it supposed to be? It's supposed to be 1.16. How much is this bid? 2.39.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0297par0364	Tell me why the dollar's rising. Say it, him. Tell me what unemployment is. The economy's flat, tell me that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0298par0365	Guys, this isn't happening! I mean, what's that like? You take promises, you talk, if that's okay. No, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0366	So, how much is the damage? How much is the robbery? 29 million 837 thousand. (CHP and AK PARTY) I repeat, dear friends, in this tender, only that robbery in the 1st tender, the difference. The robbery is 29 million 837 grand, mark it down.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0299par0367	Robbery, robbery.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0300par0368	Mr. President, this isn't about Istanbul, we'll talk about it another day, we'll talk about it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0369	I'm moving on to the second tender, and as I just said in this tender, that firm is bidding alone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0300par0370	Tell me which gangs have been auctioned off so far.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0371	What's the difference between 1.16 and 1.76 in the 2nd tender? There's $14 million overpaid here. 14 million robberies, 14 million damages in the second tender, please note that as well. The third tender, the unit price there, is 1.79; the loss here is 14 million 759, when we simulate 1.16. So let's go on with the 4th tender, which should be-- look, 4th, because it's done in 2001, we get three years of inflation, we get 54, or even 75 percent, plus 50 percent more, see, so we don't make a mistake, and at the end of that, the damage to the 4th bid is $179 million, $179 million. This is what you call the right of an orphan. I'm coming to the 5th contract, the 5th contract, $86.3 million overpaid there, and the 6th contract...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0301par0373	Overpaid.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0374	The 6th tender is the main thing. Do you know how much, dear friends? Overpayment is 355 million liras.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0302par0375	Corruption...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0303par0376	God forbid, what if they're power?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0377	How much do they all add up? How much do they all add up? How much does it all add up to? Let's get it together, look, let's get it together, guys, all of it together. The first tender is 24.3 million; the second tender is 14 million; the third tender is 14.7 million; the 4th tender is 179 million; the 5th tender is 86 million; the 6th bid is 355 million; the 7th tender is 59 million, 732.7 million.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0304par0378	Say that again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0379	732 million, 732 million. Look at the robbery, the robbery!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0305par0381	If only you'd come to power...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0382	In plain sight, there's been a brutal robbery going on in front of everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0305par0383	What would happen if they came to power?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0306par0384	Wow, how'd you catch it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0386	It's my duty, dear friends.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0306par0387	There's a lot of corruption!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0388	I've done a lot of this kind of investigation in my time as an IRS investigator.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0307par0390	Don't ask for 128 billion dollars, come here, talk about irrelevant things.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0308par0391	Yeah, well, it's not here, it's not here.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0392	I've done a lot in municipalities, public tender legislation institutions, CSIs.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0308par0393	Is he talking about the budget now, or is he talking about Istanbul? I really don't get it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0394	We've encountered violations of the law, against the law; it's been done. But this way, systematically, I've never encountered any regular and unopposed corruption until today.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0309par0395	It's all in the palace, it's all in the palace, it's all in the palace!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0396	The greatest corruption in history.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0309par0397	All corruption in the palace...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0398	That's only seven bids, dear friends. The ISB scandal in 1993 is nothing compared to that, and you'll see, in the coming days, it's nothing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0310par0399	Come on! Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0400	Yeah, I mean, you have a responsibility for him, too. We heard it, we know it, so I'm saying it. (Manisa) We hear you, do you? Tomorrow we didn't know these things, we didn't hear them... Now, what we need to do is go, and you'll answer.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0311par0403	Why don't you ask him for an account first? How much did you give that Tank Palette for?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0404	All right, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, go to TÜİK. But do the raid here before you do, the raid here. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE, EARLIER LINES) Right now, while we continue these talks, there are tenders there and the municipality is being robbed, the state is being robbed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0312par0405	Look at the corruption.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0311par0407	You have the majority of the city council.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0408	I choose words on purpose, my dear friends.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0311par0409	Is someone tying your hands? The question is now!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0410	It's an organization.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0313par0411	What are you asking? You're corrupt on the left and right!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0412	And so far, this company has been given $1.8 billion in bids, over 1 billion, $1 billion in robbery, theft.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0314par0414	Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0415	Theft! Theft!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0314par0416	Woe to the undying orphan!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0417	Yes, theft. I know exactly what the word I'm using means. We have all the documents. Now, where did a friend come from? Where did these documents come from, where did you get them, isn't it secret? Do you know where it came from?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0315par0418	Says who? No one said that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0419	No, that's what they said, they said.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0315par0420	Who said that?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0316par0421	The tenders are all open, transparent, not hidden like yours. The tenders are being held in front of the eyes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0422	I'll tell you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu made a call to the bureaucrats, you know. Send them to us if there is corruption. I think they answered that call, but they came from here, not from where you expected.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0317par0423	The IBBB sent it to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What did you do? You've made a confidentiality decision.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0318par0424	You have the government's institutions, if you have to speak, do what you have to do.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0425	Now, look, dear friends, here's another piece of information. It concerns everyone, but it concerns you more.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0317par0426	The IBB sent me. What did you do to the Home Office? You sent it to the shelf, you blew it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0427	Look, I'm just saying with the numbers and the documents here, you guys, you don't have to be uncomfortable.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0319par0428	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0276par0429	Now, there's information about this firm's financial advisor. I mean, just so you know, I'm not commenting, I'm not pressing charges.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0320par0430	All the contracts are being published.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0321par0431	I'll give you some information, you use them, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0320par0432	It's clear, it's transparent, it's all...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0433	I'm not pressing charges because lawmakers can serve as financial advisors when they're active MPs, there's no legal obstacle, but I'd just like to share it with you as information. This company's freelance accountant is CHP İstanbul MP Özgür Karabat. I got two of the Trade Register Newspapers, exactly, one of them: Mr. Karabat signed the capital enhancement circuses published in the Trade Register of February 5, 2020, as financial advisors to free accountants, and there's nothing in that. Look, I'll tell you again, it's legal, so it's just information, yeah, just information. In the same way, İstanbul MP Karabat signed that report again as a fiscal adviser to free accountants in a company's fund-raising circus published in the Trade Register of September 25, 2020. I'm just sharing it as information, nothing else.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0321par0434	Is that what you're gonna share in the budget? That's what you're gonna stand for in the budget, is it? Let's go!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0435	Again, dear friends, I leave his appreciation to you, which means we have to share this information, because when we're doing this, when we're dealing with that kind of information, that's what we're going to do.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0321par0436	Look where you fell! Look where you fell!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0323par0437	How many firms do you have that are bidding on?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0438	Now, fellas, I couldn't look at the other contracts, I didn't have time for them, I'll take care of them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0321par0439	You don't trade, do you, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0440	And here's what's going on with the other municipalities.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0324par0441	He never came about the AKP.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0442	We're going to look at all of them, but I took a look at the other contracts.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0443	Do you also look at the ship's fleets of the country?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0444	I can't analyze it here because I can't study it in detail.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0445	You see who's working customs? You see who makes the insurance policies?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0446	And the first thing I'm particularly interested in is the public transportation tenders made by the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality: again, let's say the discount rate is below 1%, let's say 1%, dear friends, but as I said, I'll tell you the details later. Now, I'd like to address Mr. Kilicdaroğlu here -- he's not here, but -- Mr. Kilicdaroğlu mentioned a black winter fund, so if we come to power, I'll pay you this as a black winter fund; don't raise some products, I'll pay you. Now, look, you don't have to wait for this, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, if you're looking for a black winter fund, look, there's over 700 million lira in seven pens over there; go get it, the municipality is your municipality; there's theft; there's unfair gain; the municipality, the state is being harmed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0448	Mr. Canikli, you have interfered with justice.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0449	Go get it, use it as a black winter fund Mr. Kilicdaroglu, you don't have to go far.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0451	You have interfered with justice in Giresun, justice.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0452	And I also wonder, Mr. Kilicdaroglu always says that when we come to power, we will rule the country as the CHP municipalities govern it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0453	Did you or did you not interfere with justice in Giresun? Did you or did you not interfere with justice?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0326par0454	There's $10 billion in unfair profits!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0455	I don't know, after these statements, Mr. Kilicdaroglu will again rule the country as the CHP municipalities do. I don't know if he'll say.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0456	A little boy died in Giresun, and his family was devastated, tell them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0457	Look, guys, time's been tight, not only that much, but there's so much abuse, so much wrong and bad administration, that the city's already got a lot of debt going down, so now I'm gonna give them the numbers, too. Before we get there, look, Istanbul's Metropolitan City is buying milk, paying $44,666,000.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0459	There is no greater crime than injustice, and you have interfered with justice.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0327par0460	Why don't you tell me a little bit about Diyarbakir?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0461	He buys 6 million 505,000 milk, pays $44,666,000 liras. How much is a liter, what's he paying? $6.9. Do you know how much milk weighs? Four liras.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0462	Ekrem Imamoglu will lead, you will watch, that's the way it is.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0463	At the grocery store, he buys it for $4 a gallon; it's $6.9 a gallon.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0464	Pull the files from the Home Office, pull the files from the underlying files.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0465	The papers are all here, friends, so don't be mad at me. I'm just the middleman.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0466	Don't do that!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0467	Don't be mad at me, if you're going to be mad at me, go get angry at your mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0328par0468	Mr. President, don't talk to me.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0469	Pull out the files that were submersible, leave them alone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0470	I didn't take the milk, I didn't make the tender, we didn't do it, your mayor did it, go ask him about the bill.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0471	Ask the Home Secretary, ask the prosecutor in Istanbul, why don't you? Ask the D.A. who's making a confidentiality decision in half an hour.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0472	Dear friends, go ask about the account.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0473	Ekrem Imamoglu has passed you, let it go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0329par0474	Guys, there's no way to talk to each other like that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0475	Look, he rents cars that are rented for 152 million liras in 2019 for exactly 222 million liras.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0476	Forget it. Istanbul is not your business. After that, the hose has been cut.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0477	These are the money we authorized from here, we'll charge you, we'll charge you, we'll charge you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0479	The hose was cut off, cut off, you know, cut off.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0322par0480	There's an expense I'm very curious about.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0481	It's been cut, no hoses for you. You don't talk nonsense.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0330par0482	Guys, look, please, it's a disciplinary action to interrupt and break the working order, so don't push me, please. Look, read the warning penalty, read the 157, don't push me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0483	Have him pull the files from the Home Office, ask for them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0331par0484	The truth hurts, my friends, the truth hurts, but you'll bear it, because the mayor is your mayor, and you're in charge.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0325par0485	They'll pull the files.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0332par0486	Tell us about the tradesman's budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0331par0487	He gets gold badges, he gets 13 gold badges, so at weddings, he gets, like, a quarter, but what do you do with 13 gold badges? Why would a mayor buy 13 gold badges for the mayor? And that's $32.155. He organises 50 people, $6,395 per person; he gives food to 25 people, 1,200 lira per person.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0332par0488	Yeah, tell me about the cost of this palace.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0333par0489	Look at the palace, the palace.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0334par0490	Don't go into the gold business!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0335par0491	You can't get out of there, you can't get out.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0492	Dear friends, take a look, take a look, take care of your municipalities, please, this can't happen.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0337par0493	You've got nothing left to talk about the Turkish budget, you're talking about Istanbul, you can't.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0494	Look, dear friends, do you have any idea how much the funding for the mayor's 2022 budget is set up for opening events? 340 million liras, more than the value of facilities to be opened, to be laid. Look at this!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0338par0495	Have fear of God.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0339par0496	Switch to the Turkish budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0497	The groundbreaking organization will be built, the foundation will be laid, the opening of the building, any facility, there will be more openings and organizational costs than they're worth, friends, 340 million liras. Are you comfortable? I ask you, are you comfortable?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0339par0498	We're comfortable.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0499	We're not comfortable, we'll pay for it, no one's got a thing, dear friends. Look, there's talk of interest. In 2018, 2 per cent of Istanbul's Metropolitan Municipality budget was transferred to interest; 3.8 per cent in 2019; 4.5 per cent in the 2020 budget; 6 per cent in 2022; folding, folding. Anyway, when he took over, the city owed 23 billion, up to 45 billion by the end of 2020. The end of 2020, look, it's up to 45 billion, do you know how much it is now? Over 100 billion, dear friends, over 100 billion, we can't calculate.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0340par0502	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0341par0503	Can you tell us about the corruption of the trustee in Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0504	You know, he also borrowed a very serious debt, at the euro level, 600m euros, borrowed, doubled the debt. He's in deep debt right now, no money for investments, reduced social spending, reduced investments, reduced all of them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0342par0505	He's dealing with poverty, the poverty you've created.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0506	Ah, ah, here's where we're going to get the money from, we're going to channel it into the right places, dear friends, we're doing his work, we're doing his math. It's no use...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0342par0507	When we get here, we'll be asking for your account, your poverty. We'll pay for poverty. They're dealing with poverty, you created...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0508	I'll tell you something else, dear friends: Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality is currently run by coalition, coalition. So think of it as a pilot application of the parliamentary system. Yes, it's currently run by coalition, so I won't name the details, they all have names, so which party's representative is on which mission, all of them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0343par0509	Is the coalition a bad thing?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0510	But there's a coalition trial going on right now, and it's screwed up, dear friends. I mean, corruption...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0344par0512	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0513	I put it in terms of numbers, corruption has taken its head off, debt-driving municipality, all social expenses have been severely reduced, and in a few years, all of this will now make the city, Istanbul Metropolitan City, unable to do business, blocking its way, dear friends. So think about this whole parliamentary system thing for him, and look, maybe in that way, I mean, it's good to say that it's not true, but it's actually good for us to see. (CHP rows) So what kind of management style comes out when it comes to a coalition, which we have seen in the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, alive and alive, dear friends. So Turkey won't go back, Turkey won't go back; no one will doubt it. Turkey will continue to grow, Turkey will continue to grow stronger. It will continue to be a quarterback in the region of Turkey and on a global scale. No matter what anyone says, no one will be able to stop Turkey's march, no one will stop it, and neither will you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0344par0516	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0517	It shows that there is a coalition... look, there is no need to go far, CHP Vice-President of İstanbul Özgür Nas is making a statement on October 18, 2020, saying that of every 100 people employed in the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, 35
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0345par0518	From HDP.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0519	He'll come from a career of 20-25.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0346par0520	Should he have come from TUGVA? He can come from TUGVA, if you like.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0521	So he officially declares the coalition, his own speech, his own word, we don't say it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0346par0522	Why don't you have him come from TUGVA, okay?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0523	Dear friends, so it's actually a concrete indicator that the coalitions in the parliamentary system have collapsed as well. For him, Turkey will never again return and continue to walk in its old, troubled time, hoping that Turkey's problems will grow beyond belief.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0347par0525	Mr. Canikli, let's finish, please, my third extension.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0526	Investment zero.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0348par0527	Do you have three extensions? Is everyone handed out three times?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0347par0528	Well, the way things are... we don't extend the endings, and when I do, we don't extend the finished talk.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0529	I'm finishing, I'm finishing. İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality has not laid the foundation of a 1m-long subway, has not prepared its project, has not made its tender.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0349par0531	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0532	Just for the year 2022...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0349par0533	Let's take him by the hand and show him.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0534	Look, look, he sent a 2.2km plan for 2022 to Parliament, that's all, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah, it makes sense, it's amazing... if we had the time, I'd tell you about the plagiarism in that area and the political plagiarism, one by one, but we don't have the time.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0349par0535	We'll take you for a ride in Istanbul.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0336par0536	I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0349par0538	Next term, you run for Istanbul, Mr. Canikli. Mr. Canikli, I expect you next semester as a candidate for Istanbul.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0350par0539	Dear friends, now Mr. Bestaş has asked for his word. One at a time... Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0541	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I made a promise before the ruling group, and I have a brief statement on two matters. First of all, as Speaker of the House, you have made a statement regarding the extradition of these motions. Now, I'll give you a number like this: we have over 46,000 questions motions in the 27th Legislature, and 16,000 remain unanswered, and unfortunately, we are the least answered political party, 65% of our questions remain unanswered. You rightly said that it was not my duty for the ministers and the Vice President to answer. It is true that you can't force him, but in another way, we think you have a different authority, that once you return the motions to ask questions to the ministers and to supervise the legislative body. On what? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I have the motions you returned. I can give you a lot of examples, and, of course, it's the congressman's direct duty to ask questions, it's the responsibility of the law, and in order to control balance, you've eliminated our mission to control power. You're showing us the Civil Code 67, you're saying: 'You've developed a new formula, 'and you've developed a new formula,' 'the bureaucrats used to write the word,' and now they don't write the word, 'there's a extradition order coming in, and they say he returned it in accordance with the Civil Code decree.' There's a question that our entire group has given you separately and you've returned, Mr. President: Doesn't the Republic of Turkey have to comply with the ECHR decision? We asked the Minister of Justice, the Foreign Minister and the Vice President. I'll find the relevant material, according to 96. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] According to the Civil Charter of 96, there is no return. We don't consult, we don't consult. Millions of people today have not responded to the decision on the İHM or on the right of hope regarding Ocalan, which is being held on İmralı Island? He asks, "Why is the decision not being carried out? Who are we going to ask as MPs? Of course, we're going to ask the concerned minister, the presidential institution, but you're saying that: "I'm fulfilling the requirements of the Internal Charter." I'm afraid that your interpretation of the Civil Code -- since you're running it today -- has turned into a completely legal criteria and a statement that eliminates legislation. We care that you fix it because we don't do our duty as MPs. I've listened to Mr. Canikli, and I'm really terrified, and I wish the trustee had told me. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why didn't you tell me about the trustee? I mean, I can't...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0552	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0553	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0554	Okay, but like this, we don't have the right to evaluate a speaker's speech, so please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0555	There is, Mr. President, according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0556	You said about me, I'll answer them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0557	Of course you will. I'll tell you one more thing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0559	But if we open him up, we'll be here till morning.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0560	Mr. President, but it's important.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0561	Yeah, you've got time to talk, your orator talks.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0562	No, no, I mean, your embezzlement made us...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0563	No, I've listened to this, and I'm going to comment that there is no procedure.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0564	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0565	There is a demand for a word, either according to 60, or 69.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0566	Mr. President, since you've run this place so little, there's a way of doing it according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0567	You've used three minutes according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0568	So we explain our view by saying a very short word.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0569	One moment, please. All right, let's finally open it and finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0351par0571	Mr. Canikli, we ask that in the court's reports we invite Mardin trustee Yaman, Diyarbakır trustee, and all trustees to explain their thefts in the Court's reports. In this way, we find the statements he made to the opposition very grave, solely for propaganda purposes. Explain to them the trustee who sold Cizre city square; the trustee who built the gendarme barber's house; the trustee who bought 1.5 tons of dial -- let alone poison --. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor Selçuk Mizraklı is currently being held in Kayseri Prison for explaining these things. You will appoint trustees and protect both the municipalities and those who steal, and then you will come here and we will fight the thefts. Do not mislead the people of Turkey further.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0353par0573	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0574	One moment, Mr. Canikli... First, I would like to state that, friends, the 96th article of the Civil Code is the article entitled "Writing Question" The written question - comma - is without justification and without personal opinion;
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0354par0576	Right, right.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0577	So it's a long, page-by-page view of our friend, who says, "Do you agree with that?"
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0354par0578	Here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0579	Now, I can't explain every single one of the things I've returned here, I think you'll appreciate, I've got a lot of questions right now, I've got a lot of weird questions here, a lot of them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0354par0580	That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0581	But I can't tell you their example here, that's not what we're talking about today. I've made statements on this matter in the commission. With a motion that does not include issues related to personality or privacy, he says. 97: ▪ The following questions are not accepted by the President's office: I mean, the President rejects it. He says -- another -- I don't know how you interpret the Internal Charter; it's inadmissible in the presidential manner. I mean, I understand it that way. I'm curious if it means anything else. The issues that can be easily learned from another source, such as, for example, if an account is to be done, ask the result of the account, what if we divide this by this? Or if we divide this by this? Its sole purpose is to provide consultation; you know the subject, and you ask the question to confirm it, the question you're asking is questions that have been asked to provide consultation. In the meantime, I would also like to say that I think the total return rate of about 8 per cent is below 2 per cent during this period. I'm processing as many of our friends' questions as possible, but we've obviously put them in a... In accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code of 96, 97, there are criteria in which we are clearly set by action from the provisions of the Constitution of 138. We've also looked into previous returns. I'm using the will to process as much as possible, but there's also what I've returned because the Civil Code 96, 97 is giving me this assignment. It's unacceptable. It says, "You won't, you won't." So here, I understand.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0355par0584	Mr. President, for the record, there's no other measurement here that you say.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0585	Which one?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0355par0586	There's no comment. AHIM decisions... The question is exactly: does Turkey not have to comply with AHIM's decision? We think it has to.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0587	Well, okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0355par0588	But we want to get this answer from the Minister of Justice in accordance with internal law -- and because he signed under the contract -- because it's not being implemented. We're asking the Minister of Justice for a legal comment. Also, we, the MP, have the right to ask these questions both as pressure and politically. Mr. President, you're a constitutional lawyer.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0590	Mr. Beştaş, of course, there are questions that have been asked and processed on the same subject.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0355par0591	No, 54 of our motions have been rejected, President, 150 of our motions have been rejected.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0592	We're judging by the shape of the problem. I'm reading all the return questions one by one.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0355par0593	So...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0594	I can explain them. Mr. Dervisoglu, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0356par0596	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not going to give anyone any answers, but I want to correct a misunderstanding. In my speech, I tried to describe what the Justice and Development Party had lost for 19 years. I also have the transcripts, and I have not given anyone the honour and honor of any honored member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is incompatible with neither my family discipline nor my political discipline. I just said: I remind you of the virtues of the concepts of peace and authority, and I leave more than words to your imagination. I believe that you should not hold me accountable from the limits of your longing and imagination.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0352par0599	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0356par0600	Besides, I'm the representative of the opposition party, and I'm not going to write about power, so bear with all the criticism. The reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey concerns every member of parliament here, and I have not insulted the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Your Grace, Minister, you said: "He has worked two hundred and eighty-seven hours. " There has been no change in the chapters, no change in letters, no change in number. So there's nothing as natural as the evaluation of the functions of this Assembly. You asked about our system preparation. We also have a proposal from our group president for system design. I respectfully present these matters to the General Assembly, and salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0357par0604	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0358par0605	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0357par0606	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0358par0607	Mr. President, I'll try to wrap it up. May God not put two people in the position of two: One, in the name of the country's budget, in the name of its group for about thirty minutes, where they have nothing to say but to bring the matter to the court report of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. And don't let God put anyone else in the position of having his party's speaker dictated to the TBMM minutes by the speaker of his own party, who is the spokesman for your group at the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, let's say this first. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) Let not God make it a reminder of the words of the speaker who spoke for his band before any speaker: they have come as Aaron, they have become Karun, and we shall not become pharaohs like them. We will not turn our ability to rule the country given to us into an instrument of oppression and persecution against the people. We're not going to follow our own desires, our own desires, and use religious politics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This conversation two years before joining the party, let no one be subjected to God's eight-year power. In addition, when asked about the 2012 Court reports, known by the public, that they did not come to Parliament in 2013, it was said: "We must find a solution to this, Mr. President, Sir. Now, you see, if these reports had come to the House, Mr. Hasan, the chief of the special pen, they would have smoked us in the House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When Mr. Hasan asked you: "Don't they ever resist?" you said: "They're all our men, in fact, all our men, this profession, this bureaucracy, all our men, but we need to change this law from top to bottom. If these reports came, we would have been ruined, and our time would have been narrowed down. Look, he's given samples to the Istanbul Department of Electricity, tram and Tunnel Enterprises... and here's the story of all the numbers you've given him. The private pen representation costs -- you said -- 604,000 TL in 2016, 680,000 TL in 2017, 565,000 in 2018, 565 euros in 2018, 349 TL in 2019 that we have, 88,000 in 2020. We've reduced the $600,000 euros in 2016 to 81,000 TL, and you turn around and don't be ashamed to say a word of it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0359par0616	Mr. Special, let's complete.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0358par0617	The work that's done... the very rookie lawmakers sometimes make this mistake -- they're screwed up, we warn at first -- the Court report has questions from the administration, and if you read it and jump in here, then you'll be ashamed of the management's answer, the inspector's answer. If Canikli has any feelings of such shame, he reads the answers from all the Court reports he's made, and tomorrow he can't make promises about the past report, but he's up here to make a statement. It's not like you said, I'll tell you one thing, it's just that in the restoration of Topkapi Palace, it's accepted into a contractor firm at around $63,600, then paid $2,805,000... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I have one sentence left, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0360par0621	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0358par0622	Where's the $63,000, $2,805,000, the restoration of Topkapi Palace, when there's a certain and paid money in the middle? With so many backgrounds, with so many pasts, with so many pasts, don't let a shady man put his land in the face of a clean political party's clean executives.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0361par0624	Clean as a whistle? Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0358par0627	From there, we will ask the court to answer for every word of theft. We'll also ask you to account for every mess you've made in the past, and when the day comes, we'll carefully follow the Supreme Court's trial for you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0362par0629	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0363par0630	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0364par0631	Mr. President, using my name...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0365par0632	Wait a minute. It's not over, Mr. President. We also want to speak on behalf of him, sir, for taunting him by calling him "The Free Karabat."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0363par0633	Here you go, Mr. Karabat.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0364par0635	Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Let me start by saying, as a congressman, my head is held high, so let me make it clear. Second, deputy financial advisors can carry out their professions legally. I've had over 100 taxpayers, maybe Nurettin Canikli's in time, I've had other friends here, and I know that I've never been a financial advisor -- a group that's been going on for five or six years now. I know the MPs here who have received the direct tender of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the MPs who have served as financial advisors, I know the valuable friends. (CHEERING) Now, therefore, it is not right to accuse such a small touch; neither is Nurettin Canikli a good name for his profession, I will tell you that. I wanted to say that in particular. The other thing, dear friends, is just one thing about the company: on 29/8/2021, the Dusanbe Embassy texts, thanks to this firm for your work with us. The interested firm doesn't just work with the IBB, it works with other ministries. I've also got taxpayers who've been getting contracts from other ministries; they're being tendered by law. Who's organizing this, guys? He's running a public auction.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0366par0638	Then why do the buses stay on the road?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0364par0639	I'll keep going. Now, the story of profitability... what would you say if I showed you pictures of the previous executives of the IBB at this firm? What will you say if I show you Hayri Baraçlı? Why did they buy metrobuses from this firm, long subway buses? Because the metrobus you bought didn't work out, you put this company on a long metrobus, the current administration has completed your process, and you've taken the metrobus that didn't work for $1,250,000, that's 20 million, and now the metrobuses that have been bought are $15 million. $5 million per subway, $300 million on 60 subways, IBB 300 million in profits, valued friends in this business.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0366par0642	Why do the buses stay on the road, why do they stay? Why are the citizens pushing?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0364par0643	Mr. President, I'm completing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0367par0644	Mr. Karabat, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0364par0645	I'll finish it. Now, this firm got every contract, it's not like that. There are more than four companies in the garages of the IBB, who only do it. Besides, he's taken every contract he's ever been in, no such thing, he's lost contracts, dear friends. Should I now, as a consultant, as a close friend, be like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Or should I say that an ex-Minister -- he's got a contract now -- he's got it. Because he's a local, he's a company called Rizeli. Should I call him that? Is that a thing? So it's obvious, the prosecutors are there. We all need to be careful and careful when using a congressman's name, especially when we're colleagues. As a result, I'd like to say that you have a vice president who gets the bus contract. Didn't BMC sell buses to the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality for 54m euros, dear friends? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wasn't he your vice president? Thank you all. I've got my head held high.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0368par0653	I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0369par0654	Mr. Canikli, I give you my word according to 69. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0368par0656	Dear friends, regarding Mr. Karabat, it is not against the law that I have received such information during this study, this study...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0370par0657	So, why do you do it, why do it to your colleague? It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0368par0658	For...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0370par0659	Why are you doing this?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0368par0660	Wait a minute, I'll tell you. Wait a minute... Mr. Kilicdaroglu makes statements from time to time in accordance with the ethical rules that lawmakers must obey, and I did so within the framework of these explanations; is he not fit for explanations or not? Look, guys, I'm sorry about the ethics of your own president, but you don't know, you're blaming me; would that happen? I mean, I said it in that frame.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0371par0663	Who are your clients?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0372par0664	You tell your clients, you tell your clients.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0368par0665	In addition, Mr. Kilicdaroglu has numerous explanations, especially in this regard, that lawmakers should not be involved in this kind of work.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0372par0666	He says there's been five years, five years, since when.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0368par0667	I agree, and I support this statement from Mr. Kilicdaroglu. Do you object?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0372par0668	No. Why did you slander your colleague when you knew it wasn't a crime I was trying to tell you about, that it was legal?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0373par0670	Let's not talk mutually, guys. Please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0671	Now, look, I'm not ashamed to share a robbery with the public, but if there's anyone who should be ashamed, it's those who rob, it's those who support those who rob. (EC PARTY Applause) You should have thanked me. You warned us in time. So, other than that, I didn't really understand that you were angry. With the documents, clearly, without question, I tell them what happened, I share them, I don't comment, I don't say what happened, I say what happened, so there's no point in being so angry there. Now, there's talk of $600,000, and there's talk of 81 grand.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0375par0673	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0674	I'm talking about billions, 81 thousand liras.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0376par0675	Mr. Canikli, did you or did you not sell the bus?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0377par0676	Mr. Canikli, why don't you come to that land you gave Ali Yarkin? Come directly to Ali Yarkin. Tell me your connection to Ali Yarkın.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0677	Also, there's one other thing: the Metropolitan City City Council is out there doing a trick to keep these promotional-media costs out of its own budget, handing them out to other agencies, so they're giving them out to corporations.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0377par0679	Brother, come to Ali Yarkin, the sockman!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0680	Actually, the number... I didn't want to go in there.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0378par0681	Do you explain it according to 69?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0682	Yeah, I know, I know the number, the number's a lot higher, but he's handing them out from the city's own central budget to other agencies, where he's using them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0379par0683	Come to the land you gave me by the sea first!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0684	Do you know how many floors? It's up to 15 million.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0380par0685	Why don't you go to the D.A.? Why don't you go to the D.A.?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0686	That's not 81 grand; the real number is 15 million, 15 but they hid it, they hid it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0380par0687	Yeah, go to the D.A., the D.A.!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0688	I mean, they're trying to do it in a cheap way.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0689	Look, look, look! So?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0690	Dear friends, look, about the Court... we've had a lot to discuss in this House. The Court's control authority was expanded by Law No. 6085 during the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0691	You're saying you're sorry! You're saying you're sorry!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0692	Before us, the control of municipal companies, public economic institutions, and countless thousands of other institutions was under the supervision of the Court, wasn't it? It was, yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0693	Look, it's here! They'd have screwed us. You're saying!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0694	With Law number 6085, who takes it into the Court's control? AK PARTY, AK PARTY Group. Look, of course, Parliament made the decision, but as a result, the EC PARTY is responsible for the work of the Assembly. Therefore, the Court...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0696	Mr. President, according to 69, you've extended it once...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0382par0697	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0374par0698	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0700	No, no, no! Let this report to the report, sir...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0383par0702	Mr. President, for the record, I've been a financial advisor for a while since I was a member of parliament and before I became a member of parliament, but after the first tender he received from the IBB, I've given up being a financial advisor, let's just say that it's the relevant organization.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0384par0703	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0704	Bravo! Do you understand? [[Applause from CHP rows]] That is because Mr. Canikli's return from the bench did not receive applause.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0385par0707	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0708	Unconscionable man! See?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0386par0709	We always applaud our friend.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0381par0710	You can't clap, my friend, you can't clap your conscience.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0386par0711	We always applaud.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0387par0712	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0388par0713	Mr. Pine... [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0387par0716	Mr. President, the president of the Republican People's Party has just been found with a taunt about myself, so I'd like to take a stand for him.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0389par0717	Same session, place. It's the same session, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0388par0718	Here you are, according to the Civil Code 69...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0387par0720	Mr. President, thank you. And you know the dwellers of the age of ignorance, when they made idols out of their own hands, then, when their souls were straitened, they ate of them, and when their bellies were open, they ate of them. Now, our CHP friends have made an idol, and when they get bored, they cling to it. But I asked the president of the Republican People's Party a question, very important, and I gave him an opportunity. I asked a question that concerns millions of young people, millions of families, and I said, "The Arabs, the Qatars, will enter the university before taking the university exam." There is an explanation for this. Eighteen years, he raises his kid, he vacuums his hair, he brings it up, and the next day, he takes a college test. In fact, in those days, psychologists, sociologists -- they show up on television -- oh, my God, there's a test tomorrow. "Don't pressure your children, don't pressure them. Show a jeweler's sensibility," he said. The president of the Republican People's Party comes out during a period of suggestion and says: The Qatars and Arabs will enter the university without testing. Look, it's a big lie! A great opportunity, brothers from CHP, a great opportunity... (CHP rows) I didn't say anything like that here. I lied, I apologize to millions of young people. He was going to apologize to the kids who got upset by my lie and went to college the next day and didn't even ask a question and get into college. It was that simple. [[Noises from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] E, he's getting up... I've made hundreds of statements about him, and I've even made a statement on the television channels near you. I don't know if it's a riot or if it's actually a lining.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0390par0726	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0387par0727	But it's not gonna work. It's not gonna fit. Now, Ozgur has made a description of that immoral movement, sir, backslide... I think Mr. President General has a bad back, which he's not here. I wish I could tell him that. Dear friends, look, no lies. I'm going to go in front of the TÜİKýK for politics and pretend to be poor... (CHP rows) Here, you have entered the blood of the children of millions of poor people. Go forth and tell your lie about him, and say: "I have told this lie, and I apologize, O young men, and I beg your forgiveness, O students of the university. Wasn't it fitting for him?" Where? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0391par0732	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0392par0733	Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0391par0734	Mr. President, I don't intend to extend too much.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0392par0736	Folks, this is the Deputy Director of the Group, if you'll excuse me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0391par0737	Mr. President, there's this one thing, when you look each other in the eye, when you're talking about something, it's probably clear that you can't get away from the obvious and put your eye in it. We were all here that night. You were broadcasting from here under a woman's alias.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0393par0738	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0391par0739	You accidentally turned the camera on yourself, you had a rose on the screen, and it said "Yeliz". (CHP turns, applause) Now, if you're still defending this case in denial and denial, by not leaving us all in the pleasantness of that night...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0393par0740	I didn't quit?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0391par0741	If you're going to question a conscience, are the Qatars taking the exam or not? What about the psychology of the young people, the families, the children whose lives we've stolen from them, and the psychology of them? How many people have been given their rights, and how many have gone to college? Now, tens of thousands of people crawl instead of him, even though they don't deserve it. First you answer for it, then you go fantasise. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0394par0744	All those who committed that crime were imprisoned.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0395par0745	His nickname's Yeliz, but the action is too bad.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0396par0746	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0397par0747	Let's give you a seat, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0398par0748	In your place, in your place...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0396par0749	If I talk about it, he might not understand.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0397par0750	It's okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0399par0751	His nickname is Yelliz, but he's got a lot of attitude.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0397par0753	Guys, please... Mr. Pine, I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0400par0756	Mr. President, when you say that, it's obvious that our friends are more at their root. Although they pose a little against it before it turns out it's a terrorist organization, we all know they've had it pretty rough since it turned out to be a terrorist organization. I've actually made a statement about this Yeliz (Yeliz) issue. Look how many times I've done it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0401par0758	Oh, come on! We've all seen it!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0400par0759	I swear to God, look after him. How did you get in the blood of those students? How did you demoralize millions of students, millions of students who were taking college tests?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0402par0762	Guys... Mr. Pine, you said it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0400par0764	He couldn't be a lawyer because of a question, not an engineer, not a doctor, maybe not a college. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say to those people, let's ask the Republican People's Party to pay for this.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0402par0767	Thank you. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Friends, the talks on behalf of the group are complete. On behalf of the person, Mr. Mustafa Destici, the leader of the Grand Union Party and Ankara MP will speak on behalf of him first. Here you go, Mr. Destici. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0403par0778	Mr. President, the Honorable President, the Honourable Group Presidents and valued MPs, the pandemic across the world, including developed economies, has deeply affected the entire country's economies, some economic diseases, almost forgotten and forgotten, have begun to resurface, unfortunately. Inflation and unpredictable budget deficits, especially under the age of a certain age, have led economies around the world to a difficult process, depending on the development of money emissions. In the past years, low currency, high interest, high money debt policies, and the current open and debting that has been going on over the years depending on this policy has increased the demand for foreign currency to close open positions, which has caused our country's reserves to melt. With the negative results of the pandemic, the difficulties in our country's current open and debt-related foreign currency supply coincided with the same period, causing significant upsurgence in inflation rates and foreign currency rates. The government's development of investment, production, exports and employment is positive, and due to the economic developments, we stress that narrow and stable incomes need to be supported more than ever. Precious lawmakers, our central management budget in 2022 costs 1 trillion 750 billion, budget revenues 1 trillion 472 billion. The budget deficit is estimated at $278.4 billion. Our wish is, hopefully, to capture an economic performance of equal budgets as soon as possible. The budget has tried to transfer more resources than the years that have passed on to poor and low-income families and cutbacks. The budget is earmarked for 104.2 billion euros in poor and low-income families and cutbacks. For example, health care support for non-inflicted citizens has been raised to 23.4; maintenance allowance for people over 65; home care allowance for disabled persons has been increased to 13.2; support for poor and under a certain amount of electricity has been raised to $2.4 billion. On the other hand, the budget of 2022 also envisioned $57.6 billion for the agricultural sector. These sources have been designated as agricultural support, subsidies and investments, and have been earmarked for $12.5 billion, especially with an increase of about 39 per cent from last year's irrigation. Meanwhile, the budget envisioned as 494 billion personnel grants have been significantly increased both by last year and by 28.5 per cent in the budget. I'm particularly hoping that the statement announced by our Ministry of Labor today that there will be a social welfare arrangement for all public employees will actually make our employees smile. These are the numbers we welcome. Again, another satisfaction is that the largest share of the budget is divided into education. The total funding for healthcare from the central management budget of 2022 reaches $304.6 billion. We hope that these numbers will further strengthen our health infrastructure and services that make even developed countries around the world jealous. The source from the central management budget for the needs of defence and security units increased by 29.6 per cent in 2022 to $1181 billion. I'd like to say that we're also pleased to welcome this grant, which our country has been given, so that it can be strong against potential risks, from Libya to the north of Syria, north of Iraq, north of Karabag. Dear lawmakers, I would also like to point out that the amount of tax and tuition our state has collected as the victim has been increased by the rate of reevaluation each year. This year the rate of increase was 36.20 percent. The latest TÜFE is 21.4 per cent. The increase in civil servants and pensions, as we know, is based on TÜFE. Either the government's tax returns are increased or we think there should be a more fair way to determine the salaries of officers and pensions, so we think it's unfair to increase the victims' taxes by 36 per cent and give the officer 20%, and we believe that this will be corrected. Again, a similar situation occurs in determining income tax slices. Each year the government's taxes as victims increase by the rate of revaluement, while income tax slices are neither increased nor increased by smaller rates. This especially causes low-payers to rise to the top and face excessive tax cuts, especially because of low rates during the year, and there is a reduction in their net salary. As we have stated, we adopt the policy of new government investments, production, exports and employment targets, and for that goal to be achieved, I would like to share with you the suggestions that our party's economic board has prepared, and that we can only give the headlines because of my time of speaking: it can be closed open with a medium-term program, the increase in exports and the revenues of tourism in the coming season. Two, large resources and non-essential investments must be postponed by the end of 2023, and the resources to be transferred to these sites should be used specifically to relieve the small-income sector through social transfers. Three, the fight against interest must continue. Four, economic decisions should be more transparent and predictable. Five, perception management must be dominated, expectations governed. By making economic developments much worse than they are, it is necessary to retain control of the field and inform the community with accurate information to prevent perceived operations that will cause morale or unrest in society. Six, confidence-enhancing measures must be given more weight. Seven, medium and lower income groups and disadvantaged segments must not be crushed by inflation. Eight, cost inflation and demand inflation must be prevented at the same time. Nine should be used for all kinds of instruments under economic management. Ten is now around 254 billion dollars in foreign currency deposits in banks; this savings should be directed to other investment areas. Eleven must be dealt with by non-economic factors, and those problems must be quickly eliminated and turned in favor. Of course, our time is limited, and I have shared with you this view of my party's budget for a brief ten minutes, but there is one other thing that our nation wants us to share in Congress today, which is that: You know, the 68th article of the Constitution provides sufficient financial assistance to political parties, the state, and the rights. Now, we're looking at how that's good enough and fair enough. 2021 year 432 trillion 811 million, 2022 year, 645 trillion 165 million 896 year.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0404par0797	Mr. Destici, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0403par0798	The year 2023 is given three times as much as the year of the election, and if it continues with this increase -- I'm reading with the old money -- 2 quadrillion 574 million 211 thousand 903 -- so that the greatness can be seen. So with this money, a family of 5 million people -- 20 million -- can be helped by $500 worth of natural gas. Our citizen and I say, "For pity's sake, it's a sin." As in the Constitution, there must be sufficient and just enough. And we're hearing from the most groups, so let's do this from the opposition. Let's do this here. Let's do this. Let's not let him get this. Let's give this away. Let's just say, let's give these 5 groups away because they're going to buy this pandemic process. Let's give these 3.5 quadrillion dollars to our citizens.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0405par0800	Bravo.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0403par0801	I'd like to use my last minute, if I may.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0406par0802	Let's complete it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0403par0803	Now, someone can tell me this because you didn't buy it. No, in 2001, the money came out of the treasure, and our president, the late Muhsin Yazbioğlu, said: "I will give this money to the families of the martyrs. The law is not appropriate. But in different ways a significant portion of that money was transferred to families and other parts. And when we did, we took that attitude, and we're doing it today because it's not fair, it's not fair. And finally, does Turkey have to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights? And when I get out, the ones who go out -- hopefully they'll go out in bulk -- I say to them, "Do you ask your friend Greece?" For example, Greece, for example, does he or she not apply ECHM decisions about the Western Thracian Turks? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What are your friends saying? That's what I want to know. I salute our entire coven. Have a good evening, have a good day.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit04spe0407par0810	Thank you. Dear friends, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0407par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 28th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. Commission? He's in position. Mr. Fuat Oktay will now speak on behalf of the executive. Here you are, Mr. Oktay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 60 minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you once again. We discussed the basic mission of the 2022 budget, its basis and its goals in the Plan and Budget Commission in detail and comprehensively in the presentations of our Ministerial Ministers, which I have conducted, both in my own personal talks and in the budgetary talks so far. I'm going to consider the questions and criticisms expressed during today's talks at the General Assembly of our Veteran Assembly. Our country's development journey, success stories, and the future perspective on the ground all day, has been led by many biased, severe criticisms. We already knew the opposition was far from the truth of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0409par0010	No way!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0011	But I think being blind to all this work, standing up to whatever's useful to the nation, it's more of a sign that you're breaking up from the truth than you are from the truth anymore.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0410par0013	Who's far from the truth? The citizen cries because he can't buy bread!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0014	It's been a long time since you've completely lost hope of being in power...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0411par0015	You're a hungry chicken, you see yourself in a wheat barn!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0016	...we could see that you were exhibiting symptoms of well-extinction syndrome. As the Republic approaches its 100th year, we also regret to see the CHP experience its only-party nostalgia and be dragged into a depression under the influence of failure over half a century.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0412par0018	You're a civil servant, so speak up to a civil servant.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0019	You hold on to your hysterics and write unrequited letters, hoping for help from those who mean for Turkey's future. We have a beautiful song. I hear it. You wrote it. You gave it to the train.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0413par0020	Did you leave the Turkish or did you leave the song in the country?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0021	Your desperate letters of complaining about our country will not come from your brothers, from your custody centers; they will not come; you will wait long. Our whole nation knows your insincereness.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0414par0023	You seem to have forgotten who you came to power with, with your brother.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0024	I've listened to you, you haven't left anything you haven't said since this morning, you haven't left anything you haven't done.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0414par0025	I don't know who's the guardian...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0026	Hold on, we're just getting started.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0414par0028	We don't have a brother, but we have people.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0029	Wait, wait, wait. You've been patient for fifty years, just a little longer.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0414par0031	You're used to coming with brothers.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0032	Your insincereness is known to our entire nation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0414par0033	You're used to coming with brothers, we have people.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0415par0034	Tell me about the phone, the phone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0035	In Yozgat, my hometown of Yozgat is separate.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0416par0036	In Yozgat, farmers cannot sow the field.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0037	This nation sees that you speak separately in the parliament, that you vote no in parliament in the direction of the HDP (HDP) who came to talk about destroying Kandil (Kandil) in Anatolia, and began to talk about fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0417par0039	Yeah, that's enough! It's old, it's old. In the squares you favor...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0040	What's the halalization...?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0417par0042	It's a shame. You can't infect us with your own mud.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0043	Oh, wait, wait, wait. We're just getting started. Yeah, you've been talking all day. What the hell is that? Just to comfort people, to exploit them, to say...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0418par0046	Tell me the truth of the country, don't play politics...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0419par0047	You can't get your mud on us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0048	Look, listen well here, listen well here, listen well here; I'm telling you: what's a halalization? Just to comfort people, to exploit them. Five months later, just five months later, we see your inconsistencies on the so-called pilgrimage to halalization.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0419par0050	Tent court, tent court, tent court.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0420par0051	Choose, choose, and speak like one.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0052	We're all amazed at your tyranny toward the gates of state institutions, leaving work to do so.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0421par0054	Friends, friends...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0055	You're missing a rock, a stick, a Molotov. We wouldn't be surprised to see him. After all, you're in different alliances.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0422par0056	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0423par0057	They don't suit us. We saved the republic with our mothers digging and shoveling in the struggle for salvation. Don't worry, we'll know how to save it!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0058	You're not talking about farmers, shopkeepers, teachers, business people, civil servants, threats, insults, threats, and democratism?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0422par0060	He's insulting the appointed, the chosen! The insult is yours.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0061	Those who blaspheme against the relatives of the martyr, the Plan and the Budget -- look, I'm calling from here to our nation -- I'm out of line by saying...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0424par0062	Guys, it's old, it's old, get to work, get to work! Come to action! Citizen can't get fat, flour can't. The land of wheat is Anatolian, a citizen can't reach flour, can't reach oil, can't get milk! You come here, over here!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0063	...to the government's top-level executives, bureaucrats -- forgive me, I am dedicated and decent to saying -- they will fall into our laps. Those who break the way they say, can't talk to us about honor, about personality. [[AK PARTY clapping, ▪Bravo▪ voices; noise from CHP rows]] We work with our dignity, we talk where we need to, we do what we need to.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0424par0067	Those of you who burned the forest didn't leave a forest in the country! The woods burned down, where...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0068	If you want to see the forest burners, look inside yourself. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We work with honor, we talk where we need to, we do what we need to, but there's one thing we have, but there's one thing we don't talk about.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0424par0071	The farmer can't use fertilizer, fertilizer! That's what you've brought the country into. That's it!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0072	You can't get out of this darkness by taking a piece of paper and making a list of cutbacks that will be lawful.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0424par0073	You had the cows slaughtered, the cows.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0074	You'll have to say good-bye by admitting that you've come to an end. If you're going to say goodbye, first, if you're going to be sincere.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0424par0076	There's no more cows in the country to be slaughtered, nerd.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0425par0077	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0078	First, you have to be sincere. You will write down on that list all that you have done wrong, all that you have done wrong, all that you have ignored, all that you have despised.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0426par0079	The other one is yours.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0080	You can't just hit here, or you can't do it with your hands. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] That's not how it works, it's when the subconscious pops up.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0427par0083	Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0084	You're going to write down what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've ignored, what you've despised.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0428par0085	Is there anyone else who can beat you to it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0086	With the generations you've destroyed, the girls you've turned from the college gate, you've insulted us by saying, "Bidon head!" Can you be lawful with our citizens?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0429par0087	Says who? Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0430par0088	We have no other, we have embrace, we have embrace; you are the other.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0089	Can you be lawful with the mothers of Diyarbakir, the families of our beloved martyrs, our veterans?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0430par0090	There's no money left for citizens from their public-private investments in the country, explain them. How much are you paying? How much did you give who? Explain this.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0091	For him, you need to prepare a list of validation lists with a deck of cards, not a4.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0430par0093	You sold the sugar mills. The beets are gone, beets.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0431par0094	Guys, that's a no-brainer. The meeting's...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0095	And, look, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0432par0097	Guys, this isn't Travel Park, it's Congress.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0098	I'll tell you what...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0433par0099	Not without punishment.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0100	This is nothing but a confirmation of the truth. It is a confirmation of the truth and a confirmation of the truth. You don't have the sincerity or the heart to do it anyway. (KARK PARTY CLATTERING, CHATTERING, CHATTERING FROM CHP STORIES) Sarphed... Sarphed...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0434par0102	Go to the chest if you have the heart!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0103	Look, I'll repeat your president's statement today, and we're getting to the places you can't get to in the state.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0435par0105	Guys... Mr. Oktay, wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0107	No, I'll go ahead, it doesn't matter, I'll go on what you don't want to hear.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0435par0109	Friends... friends...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0110	I'll take it from here, Mr. President. It doesn't matter.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0436par0111	You were going to bring prosperity; what will you give the worker, what will you give the officer? Tell me, what will you give the worker?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0437par0112	This isn't Travel Park...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0113	Our people can hear us, our people can hear us, even if you don't want to.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0438par0115	Guys, look, I'm reading article 157...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0408par0116	Our people hear us, you may not want to hear us; you may not want to hear us; you can block your ears; our people hear us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0438par0117	...which requires a wake-up call... I mean, we understand what you're saying in the House, but if there's continuity, I'll give you 157. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0120	Yes, I repeat once again what your president said today, and I refer it to our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0438par0122	Let's not go in there, let's not go in there, there's something else. Let's not go in there. The punishments were different.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0123	In the state, we are reaching places where you -- as a government -- can't reach -- the word is neither state nor democratic politics, nor can such a person govern the state. They can't rule the state with that understanding.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0440par0124	People can't buy coal, coal. How many thousand liras is the shade of coal? No conscience at all?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0125	You will not benefit from your association with the terrorist organization and the custody centers, and our nation will not give you a pass.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0441par0127	You're on the run, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0128	Just as it hasn't given way in the past, it won't give way in the future, you'll be left with your dreams.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0129	Let's go then, take everyone's test, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0130	Those who move from the public's stand -- this is today -- look, people are going to make such a move that you won't be able to pull yourself together for the rest of your life. (AK PARTY Applause, CHP rows) Just...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0131	Let's face it, let's go. We thought, right away!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0132	What, are you guys in pain?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0133	Bring a chest, and we will see who the people trust and who they do not trust. Bring the Ark.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0134	I'm telling you what you did. I'm telling you what your president did. I'm not doing anything else.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0135	Come on, get the trunk.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0136	I mean, why is it so hard to say what you did again? That's you, holding a mirror. You have given up hope not only from yourselves, but also from the gratitude of the people....
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0137	Bring him back as soon as you can, like a lion.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0138	...you're looking for an alliance with the terrorist and his followers on the mountain, who have martyred our mehmethik, and the traitor who was sold on the run, and the custody centers.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0140	Who's your Treasury and Finance Minister?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0443par0141	You're on the run, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0142	The countless public services that we've performed for our nation, the hard struggle we've fought in and abroad, the total disregard for our vision of the future, the ignoring, that's the final struggle and despair spiral you've fallen into.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0144	You have delivered education, you have delivered health, justice, and everywhere, and after that you have struck this country.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0145	I'll also clarify the issues you've been trying to distort all day with this exhaustion.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0146	Why did the Home Secretary take over the corruption in the municipalities?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0444par0147	Tell me about Istanbul, Istanbul.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0148	Look, I'll tell you something else, if you want me to tell you something else:
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0442par0149	Come on, Home Secretary, you got it, bring it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0150	Look, I'm going to make it clear to you that you're trying to distort this. Maybe not in your letters, but you can write in your diary crying.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0445par0151	If there's a letter, it's Trump's letter. If there's a letter, it's Trump's letter. Did you answer him?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0152	Mr. President, I've explained in detail what budget our budget is.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0446par0153	You bought the barley for $1,750, and now you're selling it for $4,500; how will livestock grow in the country?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0439par0154	The 2022 budget is the budget of Turkey, which is strengthened, improved, and growing. Our budget is based on investment, employment, production, export and growth. The 2022 budget is the budget of innovation, technology, Turkey, which is constantly moving forward. It's the budget of the worker, the farmer's...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0447par0156	The interest budget, the interest budget!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0448par0157	The interest budget!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0449par0158	The interest budget!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0159	I'll answer that too, don't worry. This budget is the budget of the worker, the farmer, our COBI, our producer, our industrialist, the officer, the pensioner, the young, the elderly, and 84 million nations. There are programs, supports, and funds that address all parts of society.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0451par0161	They said, "They've delivered the tea to the private sector."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0162	Your work, your peace, your prosperity...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0451par0163	Is there prosperity left? You let him down, too.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0452par0164	The interest budget!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0165	...is the budget of Turkey, the quarterback, who has the say-so in the region and in the region. However, I address those who say that our budget is a war budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0453par0166	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0167	Does it bother you that we're fighting these organizations with PKK, DEAS, and traitorous terrors? Even if it bothers you, we will continue our struggle.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0454par0169	What bothers us is the photographs of the man you made of the Treasury and Finance Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0170	We need to prevent the terrorist state that is being created on the Turkish-Suriye border line...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0455par0171	You went arm in arm on the border line with DAESH.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0172	Does that bother you? Even if it bothers you, we will never allow a terrorist state near our border. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Is it disturbing to you that we are on the side of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) in Karabağ, against the invasion of Armenia, with the agreements we made with Libya, which is our presence in the Mediterranean? We'll continue, even if you're uncomfortable. Did the independence of the defense industry disturb you? We'll continue, even if it bothers us. We're determined to fight any threat from the outside or from the inside, whether you want to or not. Mr. President, there have been criticisms based on the exchange rate and price hike debates. First of all, I benefit from repeating the basis of the total independent economic policy. I've explained this economic preference in my presentations at the Plan and Budget Commission and again in my speech this morning, but clearly, in order for you to understand, you need to repeat it morning and evening.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0456par0176	There's no need for a repeat!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0177	With our country's strong macroeconomic indicators, the virility of economic activity is in the middle, and it is clear that the recent movements seen on the exchange system have no economic basis. I explained that in detail at the budget presentation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0456par0178	Is $1.1 going to be $1?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0179	The increases in currencies in our country have become more apparent with the increased dollar index in the world, manipulative movements and factors that increase the demand for foreign currency.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0457par0180	Only you can believe what you're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0181	To overcome all of these factors, we aim to ensure a primary, export-oriented, more stable and sustainable growth in the coming period.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0458par0182	How much is a kilo of exports?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0183	We are strongly focused on eliminating the factors that increase our demand for foreign currency and improving the current balance of current transactions in sectors in the medium and long term. In this direction, one by one, we bring our policies to life, one by one, to reduce interim imports and energy spending, to strengthen imported domestic production and increase exports.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0459par0184	No raw material. Where are you going to export from?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0185	For the first time in our country, we support our local industry in areas such as electrical vehicle systems and the production of lithium ion technology, the zinc isabé facility, which will produce almost half of the zinc needs that we are completely dependent on, which will increase our country's production of polypropylene, investments, and the production of large caliber weapons. I'm not talking too old, I'm talking about openings this week, last month, this month, and from the past... Our main goal is to build an independent economic structure that produces more, makes more, benefits our entire nation, makes lasting prosperity greater. We're trying to get the resources we have to go straight to the real sector, rather than waste it on high interest. On this occasion, resources will focus entirely on investment, production, employment, along with the balance of wolves and price hikes. This approach will allow inflation to fall permanently and to reach the desired points of growth. We're also aware of the opportunists who have led to the rise of the system with manipulative motions. We will not allow these opportunists to bring our economy into a vicious circle. It has been seen many times before that the policy of fighting inflation by increasing interest alone does not bring a permanent solution to the problem. Following the attracting of hot money with high interest, a model that also destroys domestic production, increasing production costs, making structural inflation permanent again, cannot be described as a permanent means of combating inflation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0460par0187	Why haven't you done it yet?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0188	We will not allow manipulative custody, production and employment, which transfer our country's resources to global capital, make the economy dependent and destabilize growth.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0460par0189	Why haven't you done it yet?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0190	In this way, a new record-breaking increase in exports will be made for the next year, not for the current year, but for the external debt to finance it, but for the current economic structure. So now in the economy, the world is greater than five. So we're going to keep saying it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0461par0191	$200, $200, minimum wage $200. That's the ring...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0192	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, Turkey, at high growth speeds, are making a huge success of its dissertation as if it were a lie. A disciple who implied that he was a good student referred to the period of the crisis in 1994, when we gave too much money, as well as to 2001. In 1994, our economy was reduced by 5.5 percent when the current was overdrawn. Again, our economy was reduced by 6 per cent in 2001, while the current was overpaid. Today we're giving too much, and in 2021, we're growing at a record level of 10%.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0462par0194	Mr. Oktay, in 2002 there were five months of overtime and 6.2 growth.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0195	So there's a successful picture of Turkey that's both overpaid and has a strong growth momentum, which has nothing to do with 94.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0462par0196	There were 6.2 growths in 2002...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0197	In particular, I'd like to emphasize it one more time.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0463par0198	We're growing up with 10 million unemployed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0199	None of our policies are created and created by sudden decision-making from evening to morning. Behind this choice is Turkey's intention to put it in an economic position with its own resources and capabilities, with a nineteen-year experience.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0464par0200	Get out of here, get out of here. Like Nasrettin Hodja, we would have landed if we hadn't fallen.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0201	We worry about our people's work, vaccine, future. Our whole nation will win with our farmers, young and old, not with interest lobbyists or money barons, but with our workers, our shopkeepers, our SMEs, our farmers, our farmers, our young ones, and our elders.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0465par0202	Jesus Christ, you've got all the agencies. Explain yourself.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0203	I'm particularly speaking to our young people here, as we fought together in unity against custody, terrorism, coupgers, we're going to fight together with the networks that interest lobbyes predict and weave into our economy, and we're going to fight together. Let's all fight together, please. The pains of this transformation that will save our future, we'll go through it shoulder-to-shoulder, like we did in the past. We'll see that we'll figure this out again, you'll see. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on the other hand, we stand against those who intend to drive our nation into panic and pessimism with disproportionate and unfair price hikes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0466par0205	Aren't those internal forces?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0206	We're also aware of the increase in prices at the overall level and the fluctuations in the currencies. First of all, it is a fact that our country has been negatively affected by the rise in global prices from supply and demand imbalances that have been created by the epidemic. With global energy, commodity and navlun prices, prices are going up in general for us as they are all over the world.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0467par0207	Mehmet Genghis is producing...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0208	In the process, we will provide the necessary support for all parties affected by inflation, including our workers, our officers, our pensioners, our tradesmen, and we are determined never to crush our citizens with inflation.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0468par0210	When was it 20 years ago?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0469par0211	The citizen's dead.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0212	Our real economy is strong and capable of nullifying these threats. The level our country has reached is no longer a level to be reduced, weakened, and blocked by sensory operations, foreign currency manipulations. Maintaining the fight against inflation with determination, increasing offshore savings, building the growth structure from private investments, implementing applications to create new investment tools with alternative financial methods, reducing the transfer of money, and strengthening financial stability will be our basic macroeconomic priorities. As I said at my budget presentation this morning...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0470par0213	Has the price of fertilizer gone down?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0450par0214	We will continue to be in the same way that we always do with the additional employment support package and the domestic and national production incentive package that we are going to do quickly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0471par0215	$200?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0472par0216	That's $14.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0473par0217	How much is a dollar in a package?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0218	In this case, since the second half of the year 2021, the interest reduction process has begun in our country...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0473par0219	How much is a dollar in a package?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0220	It will provide a positive impact on consumption and investment spending by relaxing the access to loans and the financial conditions of households and companies.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0475par0221	TO whom are you selling TEİSİŞ?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0222	These fervor movements, which are not based on economic foundations, will be balanced at a rational point in the market as soon as possible.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0476par0223	Increased.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0477par0224	Wasn't it balanced before?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0225	However, we're doing what we need to do to avoid projecting to our citizens the cost increases from global prices, especially energy, with the recognition that inflation alone can't be fought against interest decisions. I explained it to you this morning. And we're not giving the opportunists a chance to take advantage of the courtship fluctuations, and we're not gonna let them. Price movements in basic food and supplies are closely monitored by our Ministry of Commerce. On the other hand, the chain markets are being examined by the Anti-price Evaluation Board for whether or not they have increased prices for 31 types of products, such as copper, oil, vegetables and fruit, meat products, dairy products, cleaning materials, on the other hand. We're not going to let a cent of our citizen go to waste unfairly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0478par0228	You're talking nonsense, it's empty, people moaning, Mr. Secretary, people moaning. What are you talking about? You're telling a story. How much is the dollar, how much is the gas, you're telling a story, it's a story.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0229	Again, on the other hand, we continue to work to protect our nation's budget, to ensure that there is no shortage of food supplies or to reduce the burden of production costs.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0479par0230	We sell it in the garden for 50 cents...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0480par0231	What about flour, milk, sugar, oil?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0232	To reduce the negative impact on the cost of our growing raw materials prices, our meat, milk and feed producers, the bait regulation has been initiated by our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and it has also been offered to farmers who deal in grain livestock in the stockpile of the Department of Earth's Equipments, with wings integrated facilities and price for our feed industry. We support our agricultural production with projects that are strategically important in food supply, such as grains, beans, fat seed plants and medical aromatic plants, increasing the production of products, spreading the growth of vegetables with high added value.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0479par0233	People can't eat tomatoes; they can't produce farmers, people can't eat tomatoes. You had a deputy who said, "Take half a pound."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0234	In this direction, we increase the amount of agricultural support, which was $12.9 billion in 2017, to $25.8 billion in 2022. We will continue to support our animal presence in the most powerful way, including meat, milk, eggs, and honey, in our domestic animal production. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. President, I'm going to give you this, I'm going to give you that, and I'm going to erase this. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who has made promises like yours, I'm going to give you 5 more.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0479par0237	It's a matter of choice. Yes, we think of the people, the farmer, the worker, the officer; we don't think of the five-alarm gang, sir!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0238	...remembered the politicians of the past today.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0479par0240	It's a matter of political choice. It's about who the sources are, how they're going to be fair, ethically distributed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0481par0241	Who is he, who is he? Mr. Secretary, who is he? Mr. Secretary, who is he, Mr. Secretary? Mr. Secretary, who is he? Who's that, Mr. Secretary, tell me your name, your name. Come on, say your name! I'll give you five times more. Say the name of the one who says it, come on!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0242	We've been targeted by a model of public-private cooperation that we use to build giant artifacts that have risen all over our country, and it's been made non-infected comments.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0481par0243	Say 'Erbakan Hodja'. Who is he, Mr. Secretary? Who is he?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0245	It is clear how opposed this mentality is to putting stones on stones in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0481par0246	You're talking to Erbakan, shame on you! It's a shame you're talking to Erbakan!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0482par0247	You sold all the profits. $65 million...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0248	Those who don't have an obelisk, those who don't have an obelisk in this country, are not afraid to criticize the comfortable hospitals our nation has taken advantage of -- the safe and modern roads that you and all of us take advantage of every day -- in a way that makes direct investments in our country.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0483par0250	What did you do with YIMPAS, YIMPAS?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0251	Now we know very well that the mindset that opposes city hospitals has never done anything for our nation at the hospital door, in the line of medicine, and our nation knows very well. (CHP rows) Those who oppose modern bridges and roads built by the KÖI model, and those who oppose the bridges of the throats built yesterday in Istanbul, Marmaraya, Eurasia Tunnel, are the same people, the same mentality.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0483par0253	Victory Airport...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0484par0254	Shamelessly, you're slaves to someone who nails nails.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0255	It's the same mentality that we don't want to sell.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0485par0256	Tell me about Victory Airport.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0257	It's the same with those who choose not to be with us in the fight against terrorism, but to receive good work from Kandil. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) These are the ones who called it "The Ship's Park."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0486par0258	Victory Airport...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0487par0259	Get out of here.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0260	What happened? Haven't we built the Ataturk Cultural Center better than before?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0488par0262	What were you going to do about Travel Park?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0263	We invite you, we invite you, come and see. Be proud, our nation's work, we invite you. Do you have any idea how many city hospitals you've wrapped your tongue around, especially during the Covid period -- all of us -- have been cured, saved lives? If it were up to you, those painful landscapes that we saw in other countries where patients lay on the floor in the corridors would have occurred in Turkey during the epidemic.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0489par0265	If it were up to us, we wouldn't have done Victory Airport.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0490par0266	Adana Sahara Hospital.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0267	Yeah, I didn't say that, they said "Adana Sahara Hospital."
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0491par0269	He knows how to consume tomatoes, he's smart.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0492par0270	It's full of half a kilo of tomatoes, people! He offers the citizen two tomatoes, two tomatoes. You see a lot of tomatoes for people, you guys, ah! And you're talking to Erbakan!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0271	We've told you over and over again: public private collaborations are projects of construction and charity, where the best quality infrastructure is to meet our citizens in the best possible way.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0493par0272	You did what the government would do. The government makes infrastructure.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0273	Look, I'll tell you this too, this MCI model you think is in Turkey is a common model not only in Turkey, but also in 134 countries around the world.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0494par0274	Is there a village left in Turkey? You've taken away our villages, you've built a neighborhood.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0275	Let me tell you a little bit about the world.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0494par0276	Well said, I haven't improved yet.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0277	Let's take a look at the numerical comparisons. For example, let's look at one of our latest SOC projects: Malkara-Tanakkale Highway and the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge. The total cost of the project is 3.84 billion euros. During a ten-year eight-month operation, where all maintenance costs and operating costs will be owned by the firm, the ministry's net profit will reach 520m euros; you do not invest and 520m euros additional net profit.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0495par0278	Why euros?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0496par0279	How much is the guarantee?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0280	Oh, I'll tell you what happens at the end of that time. At the end of that time, the bridges and highways will be renovated and transferred to the state.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0496par0281	Okay, but how much do you guarantee?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0497par0282	Yes, Turkey has made a fortune in five years since the Battle of Salvation. You've been telling the same story for 20 years, and we're tired of listening.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0474par0283	You know that very well, but you insist on hiding it from our people. Our people know it very well, and even your agencies know it very well. Look at the highways you shared on social media yesterday -- congratulations to those friends -- they've taken it from your team, they're proud of it, they're talking about Turkey. At least you have the right ones, I thank them.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0498par0285	Are you proud of 10 million unemployed people? 10 million unemployed, that's your honor, isn't it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0499par0286	Take a megaphone, talk, take a megaphone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0500par0287	No need, no need.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0499par0288	It doesn't sound good, take a megaphone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0500par0289	No need, we grew up in a mill, don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0290	Look, this will be handed over to the state. The part about employment will reach 52,000 people, as well as the total annual employment impact of this project. In our country, the International Airport Project, which was recently held with the KCI model.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0502par0291	What happened to Victory Airport?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0292	The tender price of 8 billion 555m euros, including VAT, is a reflection of the confidence in our country's treasure, our country, and our economy in recent years.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0503par0293	If you trusted your economy, it'd be TL.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0294	With numbers and artifacts in the middle, your cognitive curtains need to be closed so you don't see the added value of the SOC projects.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0504par0295	How much is the oil, oil? How much is sunflower oil, sunflower oil?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0296	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, there are a few more figures, there are a few other things I'll share them with when it comes to Antalya.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0505par0297	Tell me about the guarantee, the guarantee.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0298	He asked, Mr. President, why are you in such a hurry? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are also opposed to the Canal Istanbul Project with the same anti-development mentality.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0506par0299	How much is the sunflower oil?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0300	One of our country's mega projects, the Canal Istanbul Project, is one of our top projects, which will bring value to our country in every way. The project will reduce the traffic load of the Istanbul Strait, which has resulted in increasing trade activity in the Black Sea basin in recent years due to increased number of ports and ships, and all risks related to traffic.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0506par0301	Tell me about sunflower oil, sunflower oil.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0302	Again, Canal Istanbul is one of Turkey's most strategic and environmental urban projects, with 52 per cent of the green areas.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0507par0303	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0304	Of course, in the Mediterranean, they find it uncomfortable and uncomfortable to take such important steps in Turkey, Marmara and the Black Sea, changing equations. They don't like that we're going to be able to extract the natural gas reserves that we've found and offer them to our nation's use. Oh, for God's sake, do you know what one of the reviews and questions from the Plan and Budget Commission was? The natural gas you find in the Black Sea probably doesn't exist. How can you be so unscientific, so far away from being happy with the good news about Turkey? What kind of question is that, guys?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0508par0305	That's how they are.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0306	So if you don't know anything, you can go down there -- maybe it's for those who don't believe -- there's a burning, burning on the top, and when you look at it, you know it's natural gas. In 2023, when we bring this to Filios, and when we take it to the company, you'll start using it anyway. You'll be the first to use it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0509par0308	When are you going to build the tank, the tank? It has been three years since 2018.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0309	When they destroy the terror state they're trying to build at the bottom of our borders, they get uncomfortable here, just like any other project.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0510par0310	The civilian you trashed...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0311	When we tell them that we're going to spread the locality rate in the defense industry into the chemical industry, the pharmaceutical industry, iron steel, lithium, zinc, and other areas, they get uncomfortable when we start spreading it. Those who are uncomfortable with any independent steps, including Turkey's new economic preferences, according to its own facts, want Turkey to open hands. Look, we've changed that, too, so that even when you're against it, you'll be forced to say "Turkey." They want to make our country look needy and weak, as was the Help Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0511par0312	Not even a plane to put out a fire.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0313	There is no such Turkey. Our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (AK PARTİ) (Bravo) President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the ground of a national consensus such as the Cumhur Alliance, who made its own decision.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0512par0314	Is that so...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0501par0315	There's a Turkey in the region that produces its most critical needs, has a say in the region, and cuts its own belly off. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] We don't need, we don't need, we don't need, we don't need what you write.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0513par0319	It's Trump. It's Trump. It's Trump. Trump wrote a letter. Tell him about Trump's letter.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0514par0320	Friends, don't say letters, don't say letters... don't say letters, we can think of other things. The plane...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0513par0321	What he wrote, Trump, you swallowed it, you swallowed it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0514par0322	...before the trial is even in the air, maybe we'll think of him.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0515par0323	There is no other Turkey for our 84 million citizens and our heart geography whose eyes have turned to Turkey, and there is no other Turkey for all of us. In harmony with the reality of our country, we will continue to carry on our national position with local and national policies, one by one, into the life and life of the mega works that you're trying to avoid. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have again been criticised for the presidential government system and budget talks. The presidential government system was passed after the constitutional amendment referendum was ratified by our nation. You still can't even handle it because you're against everything that comes out of the nation. It is the people's will that determines authority. We're talking about a system passed by the will of the people. This system is not the product of a coup, but of the will of the people. (AK PARTY) This system is a system of governance, a method that makes national will even more powerful, in which the separation of forces is evident, responds to the need for stable and result-oriented conduct.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0514par0326	If that's stability, God forbid. What have people become of your stability? I guess the people who can't wear the jacket and the shirt will be walking around the street without a jacket.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0515par0327	In the parliamentary system, the government is not directly responsible for the people, but for the parliament, but for the president, who is now the head of the administration, has become directly responsible for the public. This has completely activated the national will. 95 per cent of the law in the parliamentary system -- look, I repeat, 95 per cent of the law -- was brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by the Council of Ministers. With the new system, our lawmakers have been able to contribute to the legislative process more than ever before.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0516par0328	I don't know if you're telling us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0515par0329	As for budget rights...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0517par0330	You don't touch the point, you don't touch the decimal, you don't touch the laws that come from commissions.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0515par0331	In this regard, there is no greater difference than the previous system. We're talking about budgets.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0517par0332	Don't make fun of us!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0518par0333	Don't make fun of us, don't make fun of our minds!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0515par0334	How is budget rights taken away from our nation, in this case, when it's the truth?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0517par0335	The dot, the comma is not being touched. It's in the draft bill.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0515par0336	If it's been taken from the House, then what are we talking about here, what are we talking about, what are we talking about for weeks and days?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0519par0337	Did you change the point? Did you change the comma?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0520par0338	What does it look like from your place?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0515par0339	We're here to tell you what we're paying for, what we're explaining, mercy.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0519par0340	You've accepted one motion?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0520par0341	You haven't answered, you've been insulting me since morning, what account?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0519par0342	It's like you've changed a point, a decimal.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0521par0343	Mr. President, we've had some questions and criticisms regarding the high-value lawmakers' TİK statistics.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0520par0344	Uh, we're at the bullshit agency.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0521par0345	TİİK is a radical institution of the Republic of Turkey, which operates on principles of professional independence, transparency, neutrality and integrity.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0520par0346	You're full of shit, you're full of shit!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0522par0347	Why don't you show the Federal Reserve the same sensitivity?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0521par0348	Statistics produced by TÜİK (TİK) cannot be directly or indirectly interfered with by any authority or authority.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0523par0349	You even made me lie to math, math!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0524par0350	We admire you. We admire you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0525par0352	No one believes it, no one believes it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0353	Statistics are calculated by methods set out by the European Union Statistical Office, ILO and other international organisations.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0524par0354	We asked TÜİKlK about himself, and it turned out to be 5%...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0525par0355	He's blind, he's blind.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0356	The statistics produced are open to the assessments of local, foreign institutions and experts, and are shared with the public at the most detailed levels. TÜİK calculates TÜFE (TÜFE) using methods, definitions and concepts recommended by international institutions, which are valid in international norms, the European Union and around the world; you know that. For example, electricity and gas prices increased by industry in October, reflected in HFE values.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0527par0357	Should we believe it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0358	Again, on the consumer side, all price increases observed in products such as cigarettes, fuel and LPG are reflected in index accounts, and each product is affected by its own weight in the overall index.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0528par0359	The sulfur didn't go up, did it? They determine.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0360	Wait, guys, I'm explaining, don't worry. In addition, all the services he offers are available via e-government. We, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, don't bother to come to the gates of the institutions, so he can access all the data with a click on his house, where he sits...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0529par0363	You've shut down the government, the government. You've made an unprecedented mess in our history.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0364	We've integrated all kinds of information into e-government, including research methods, but I'm guessing he's not very familiar with smart devices.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0530par0366	We've seen the Court reports, sir, how can we believe? It's not the outcome of the game, it's the result you wrote.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0531par0367	Get out on the street, see if they believe it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0368	If you're standing at the gates of institutions while you're still in opposition, trying to dictate your demands and numbers to the institutions...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0532par0370	The facts, the facts... we're gonna get the numbers fixed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0533par0371	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0372	Look, I repeat: If you're standing at the gates of institutions while you're still in opposition and you're trying to dictate your demands and numbers to institutions, even if you're in power in your imagination, who knows what pressures you'll put on institutions? God forbid.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0534par0374	If you have something, bring it out with the power of the government you have.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0535par0375	Bring the chest, bring the chest if you have the heart! Do you have any heart? You are afraid, you are afraid; bring the chest if you have the heart, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0526par0376	What you're doing is unclear -- look, I'll tell you where you're getting the numbers from -- you're serving in the interest of whom you're trying to discredit our centuries-old institutions through the creations that have done some pricing research, if you'd like to explain that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0535par0378	Bring the chest, and bring the chest, if you can.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0536par0379	In 15 days, you have changed the head of the TİK; you are the ones who discredited those institutions, and you are not afraid of God!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0537par0380	Who discredited the institutions? Who constantly replaced the presidents of the Central Bank and neutralized the institutions? Who neutralized the judgment?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0381	Which agency is next, if you'd like to tell me. What institution did your brothers and custody focals instruct you to wear down? What are we going to do next, our security forces, our National Intelligence Agency, our Turkish Armed Forces, or our defence industrial institutions, the terror dream of terrorist organizations?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0539par0382	You're still in love with him! There are photos of your minister, a brother of your minister in prison.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0383	The World Bank measured the performance of the national statistical system in 174 economies. Look, based on the statistical performance index, 174 economies.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0540par0384	Is this the data from TÜİK?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0385	TİKİK is an institution that operates with enough indicators to include the highest performance in the 20 per cent tranche.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0540par0386	Mr. Secretary, are these the data from TÜİK?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0541par0387	What are you hiding? Why don't you show it to everyone?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0388	Look, we're not doing this, we didn't do this ranking; it came from abroad, which you trust. Turkey's Statistical Institution will remain the most reliable guiding institution in the process of making decisions for each part of the community. Mr. President, the issue of the minimum wage decline in dollars and euros continues to be distorted.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0542par0390	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0543par0391	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0392	In economics, there's no way to calculate by taking a day-to-day dry.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0542par0393	What?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0544par0394	Ask the officers, Mr. President, what's in their pockets.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0395	From 2002 to today, minimum wage has increased 15 times, and you'll see, we'll take it to even higher levels.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0542par0396	Dollars, dollars... how much is it worth, dollars?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0397	We'll do it, not in a very long future, but in a very short time, and you'll be uncomfortable with it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0542par0399	How much is it worth, dollars, dollars?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0538par0400	You'll be uncomfortable with him, but even if you're uncomfortable with him, we'll do it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0545par0401	You say China, we're looking for China. People working like slaves, slaves.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0542par0402	How much is it worth for dollars? How much is it worth?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0545par0403	The index to the dollar.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0404	Again, some statements were used against our exports, and words were spoken. As of November, $21 billion is somehow too insignificant to be exported.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0545par0405	Let's hope it adds up. We're thinking about this country, but don't let the citizen get run over.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0406	For the first time in our country's history, it has exceeded the $220 billion limit.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0545par0408	Where is it, where is it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0547par0409	Central Bank reserves minus $35 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0410	We've been breaking export records every month for the last year. The rate of exporting has risen to 85 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0548par0411	Mr. Secretary, how much is 1 kilo of exports now? It's the weight price of our export under China.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0412	I'm afraid it's sad to ignore those achievements when almost all 97 chapters in exports are increasing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0548par0413	Open the data of the Turkish Exporters Association, Mr. Secretary, we export lower than China.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0414	Cari's recovery is considered insignificant and unsustainable.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0549par0415	What's the reason?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0416	We overpaid in August and September.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0549par0417	You have condemned the people to hunger, for a reason.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0418	And we did it even though our tourism revenues were affected by the epidemic and energy prices were rising. Hopefully, with the local and national resources of our energy bill...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0550par0419	What's with the natural gas?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0420	You'll see then, with our growing tourism revenues, you'll see that we're getting better in the current balance. But you're uncomfortable with it, too, don't be, don't be.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0551par0421	Wait, wait, they'll come.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0422	Be happy, or happy, for the good things.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0552par0423	We're uncomfortable with the status of the citizen, sir. Tell me, currency, when will the dollar come back to normal, at $8?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0424	On the other hand, this budget has lost its validity. There were allegations, such as these, which I explained, but let us repeat once again.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0552par0425	Tell me when the fuel that people use will reach normal levels.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0426	The increase in foreign currency rates leads to a rise in some budget costs, while some revenue markers also improve. In terms of the total budget balance, this effect is limited and manageable.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0553par0427	You're in violation of budget law, then it was $9, now it's $14.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0428	Again, there have been allegations of drug addiction. Look, first of all, let's give our country the credit for its success in fighting addiction. Turkey is the leader among European countries in the fight against addiction. Look, I'm not saying he's in a good position, he's in a leadership position, fighting addiction. This is constant with the European Union data. The prevalence of lifetime use of substances in Turkey is 1 tenth of the European Union. Our country is the head of countries that have achieved significant success in the fight against drug supply prevention in the world. The number of drug operations organised was 2020, a year when the record of the Republic's historical record was broken with the number of suspected and seized drugs. Last year, 159,259 drug operations were conducted across the country. In the operations, 231,578 suspects were arrested, while 74,781 were arrested in court. I'll try to answer a few questions as much as my time allows, again, a few more questions. In particular, there's been a lot of discussion today about the question motions, and it's very interesting. Our Speaker just announced the figures, actually. They also mentioned the 96th article of the Turkish National Assembly, which I am not going to go back to, so I'm not going to go back to it, and I'm talking about the substance that starts with no need or personal opinion about questions, which doesn't involve personality or personal life. But first, let me explain one more truth, which is called 24th percent persistently. Mr. Special, my response rate is 75.56 percent, not 24 per cent, but 75.56 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0554par0432	For an appointed time.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0555par0433	It's on time.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0434	What's 24 percent, 75.56 percent?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0554par0435	Lies, lies...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0556par0436	Aren't you ashamed to mislead the people!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0546par0437	I'm transferring you to my people.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0554par0438	I'm referring you to the public, liar!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0557par0439	You're the liar!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0558par0440	You're the Vice President, aren't you ashamed to be misled?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0554par0441	I mean, in the meantime.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0559par0442	In his time, he said.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0560par0443	Our Speaker explained...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0561par0444	Aren't you ashamed? You're the Vice President. Don't you have any shame?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0560par0445	Our average response as a government is 64 percent.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0561par0446	Shame on you! You have no shame, no shame!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0562par0447	Don't, don't, don't use words like that; please don't use words like that. You're vice president, it doesn't suit you, Ali.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0561par0448	You have no shame at all!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0562par0449	Yeah, well, you're the Vice President, so don't use words like that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0561par0450	He's lying.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0563par0451	You're describing yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0564par0452	These numbers -- again, our Parliament Speaker -- even the presidential government system -- are above the numbers and statistics of previous governments.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0565par0453	What you call an answer is a non-responsive article.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0564par0454	Well, since we're short on time, I'll just tell you a few questions about what kind of questions. Mr. Special, since you share the answers, let me share a few questions, usually.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0566par0456	Well, share it, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0564par0457	I share it with my people. The question is, in context, how many kinds of pets are there in institutions?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0566par0459	So, what is it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0567par0460	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0564par0461	How many people work to care for these animals.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0566par0462	Well, okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0564par0463	The allowance for the maintenance and needs of animals is how many species of bait are taken, and the number of citizens in Turkey are called Peace or War and are still alive. I'm not going into all of them. I repeat with statements in the question, how many doorkeepers are there in total?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0568par0464	The attendant is not a janitor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0564par0465	Very specific information on the number and location of our troops regarding the National Intelligence Agency, Turkish Armed Forces, cross-border operations is being requested. (AK PARTY) For whom is this information required? I'd like to ask you this in the presence of our nation and in the presence of the National Assembly and you, our MPs.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0569par0466	Explain those deputies.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0570par0467	The door to the cosmic room is to terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0571par0468	Cosmic roomies, cosmic roomies.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0469	For whom is this information required? I think we have a right to ask.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0570par0471	Pay for the cosmic room, the cosmic room.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0573par0472	Mr. President, explain to the MPs that you cannot release 600 deputies under suspicion.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0473	There are parts we don't answer.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0574par0474	Mr. Oktay, I'll add one minute.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0475	It's about not coming to Parliament in person again for budget talks on our president. Why doesn't the president defend the budget? He doesn't come, he doesn't present it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0575par0476	Why isn't he coming?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0576par0477	Because he's in no position to defend himself.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0478	Yeah, guys, you don't have to keep asking us that. If you could just lift your head up and look at all the countries you've shown us as an example...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0575par0479	It doesn't exist.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0577par0480	There's no such system in the world.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0481	...america is an example of this, France, if you want an example of this...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0578par0482	Let them look up to us. We don't look up to presidents like you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0483	...the president does not offer budgets in parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0579par0484	You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0485	Look in America, I'll tell you the process: the budget is being sent to Congress in writing by the president. Same here.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0580par0487	You could be an American, not us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0572par0488	After that, each minister attends a commission hearing on his own budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0580par0490	You're a civil servant!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0581par0491	It's over, it's over.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0582par0492	The budget is the reason for this House's existence, why do you underestimate it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0583par0493	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0584par0494	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0583par0495	In addition, the ministers of Congress do not attend the voting day, but the top bureaucrats in charge of every ministry's budget are ready for questions that congressmen may question; the President of the United States is not going to Congress at any stage in the budget process. In France, the President is not going to parliament in the budget process, the prime minister and ministers are participating in budget sessions. Again, there's a question here, and I specifically want to answer it, about the fact that the vast majority of our income is going to interest.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0585par0498	Is that a lie? Right.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0586par0499	Mr. Oktay, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0583par0500	Friends, no matter what the situation is, the period is over when most of our income goes to interest. The rate of interest spending is estimated at 14.4 per cent in 2002, while 2.7 per cent in 2021 and 3.1 per cent in 2022. However, the rate of interest spending is expected to be 85.7 per cent in 2002 and 17 per cent in 2021 and 19 per cent in 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0587par0501	Can you give me the numbers, the numbers? Why can't you tell me the numbers?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0583par0502	There are many questions, Mr. President, if you give me time, I can answer them all.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0588par0503	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0583par0504	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these ideas, I wish that the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 and the Central Management Law of 2020 should be a better place for our country and our nation once again.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0589par0505	Good-bye budget, good-bye.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0583par0506	With opinions and reviews, the year 2022 has contributed to the development of our budget... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0590par0509	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0583par0510	I sincerely thank all of our MPs, including the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission and members, who contributed to the creation and criticism of our budget in 2022, again, to all of our institutions, our ministries, everyone. I'd like to thank you again and pay my respects, especially our Speaker.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0590par0512	Thank you, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0591par0513	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0590par0514	Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0591par0515	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, in his speech, in his response to me, he actually twisted my words a little bit. This is: I've been paying more in Turkey for two months now; now, it would be wrong to look at this current and then make an assessment that we're going to give more because it requires an infrastructure; it requires a transformation in the industry. I said, "I've given examples in the past years." For example, in 1994, I said that Turkey gave seven months in a row -- more than enough -- nine months in a row in 1998-1999, more than nine months in a row, five months in 2001, four months in 2002, and four months in 2019, and I said that these are -- I said that these are the times that we've given more than enough -- and then we haven't been able to keep up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you. Mr. Vice President, in answer to me, only by giving me an example of the '94 and 2001. In these years, there was negative growth, and the current rate was overrated; there is no negative growth now, plus growth, he said. So there's something missing here, and we have to say, look, the year of '94... of course, I just don't understand that growing up is negative. Is there anyone here who can claim that the economy of Turkey is not in crisis right now? This can't be happening.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0592par0520	There is, Fuat Oktay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0591par0521	There's no crisis in a country that has increased 100 percent in a year, but what else is there? Now, so in 94, there's negative growth, seven months. And in '98? Growth in Turkey in 98 is 3.1, friends, and in 98 it was given five months more. In 99, yes, it's negative, it's overrated. So was 2001, but in 2002, growth was positive and 6.4, but Turkey gave us five months in a row. In 2019, we had the same positive growth, but four months in a row, we overpaid. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0593par0524	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0591par0525	What we're trying to do, guys, is that if you're really responding to something, you need to give it a real answer. I mean, you can't just take one side of this and not take the other. If you're gonna throw a rock at us, you're gonna keep the second stone in your pocket. To answer like that with half an answer from bureaucrats like that, first of all, it's against technical integrity, it's impossible to accept. Another issue, in the context of our criticism, has been said in general that the opposition has discredited the Statistical Institution. Mr. President, look, in 2015, the AK PARTY government did a good thing. He issued the TİKİK Law and made TİKİK (TİK) an autonomous institution. There are a number of substances that refer to autonomy: 1) The President is appointed by the Council of Ministers. 2) He can't be relieved of duty for five years. 3) The President makes the other appointments himself. Now, look, for God's sake, let's look at the last five presidents. In the last five years, five presidents have been replaced, all four presidents, except for the last president, have been appointed as trustees.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0594par0532	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0591par0533	I'll finish right away, Mr. President. Thank you so much for your leniency. Those who were before this, Mehmet Aktaş worked for three years; Yinal Yazan had worked for thirteen months; Cahit Shirin had worked for nine months; he had been discharged; he had worked for 15 days before him; he had been discharged. Now, who in God's name has discredited this institution? I mean, it's not just the president, it's the executives at the bottom. Look, it's a guarantee of decentralisation in such autonomous institutions. When I was in the State Planning Agency, we were very supportive of that law. The important thing here is to give them that assurance. You will rule over people by proxy, you will appoint all rulers by proxy, and then when we criticize this, you will discredit the school. You will say, "This will not happen." Those who discredit the institution are here. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0595par0538	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0596par0539	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Council, Mr. Oktay has brought up the matter of frequent discomfort in his speech. I'll try to tell you what we're a little bit uncomfortable about. Look, for example, when there was a civil war in Syria, we don't find it uncomfortable for you to join our neighbor for hundreds of years through those civil war wars with the people who were our neighbors, and to become part of that civil war throughout. (APPLAUSE) We're uncomfortable with your hostility towards our neighbor. Now, look, we don't mind that you don't mind the death of ISIS's leader, Bağdadi, in Turkey's custody.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0597par0544	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0596par0545	We find it uncomfortable that you are not bothered by the arrest of ISIS's CFO in Turkey with a covert operation. We find it uncomfortable that you don't mind your relations with Ahra ush-Sham, El Nusra, ISIS and Al Qaeda derivatives and leftovers, all terrorist organizations, the Committee Tahrir al-Sam. Turkey, which is part of OECD, has been listed as a member of the OECD, as a member of the FATF, and you are not uncomfortable with it, and we are uncomfortable with it. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Because when Turkey put it on the gray list, the FATF said: "You are a government that does not interfere with the financing of ISIS and Al Qaeda." We are uncomfortable with that, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0597par0547	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0596par0548	We're uncomfortable with you, Mr. Oktay, not being bothered by ISIS's jaywalking, trading, starting a business, working in various businesses. We're not comfortable with a victorious commander-in-chief conversation, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0598par0549	You're the one who's having the same conversation right now, not us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0596par0550	We're uncomfortable with you, Mr. Oktay, taking over the protection of the anti-human activities of the SOS and other gangs -- which the United Nations reported these activities. We, because of these wrong foreign policies, debacle in the Eastern Mediterranean, failure in the Aegean, failure in Libya...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0598par0552	Of course, it depends on who you're looking at in terms of who you're looking at, depending on who you're looking at in terms of who you're looking at. If you call it blue country, it could be a failure for you, it's a source of pride for us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0599par0553	And I'm not comfortable with the PKK. And I'm not comfortable with the PKK. I'm also uncomfortable with him. Once!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0600par0554	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0555	Because of your wrong policies, Mr. Oktay, we're not comfortable with you taking advantage of the United Arab Emirates and Qatar.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0602par0557	We've never laid a hand on anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0558	I'm speaking as you call it. We're not comfortable with you making this country a ping-pong ball between the United States and Russia, Mr. Oktay, you did this.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0602par0559	You're doing it, not us.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0603par0560	Are you uncomfortable with PKK?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0561	Turkey has signed the European Court of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. Since you are violating the European Convention on Human Rights, not implementing the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, at the same time, under the sanctions of the Council of Europe... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0604par0564	Mr. Oluç, I've given everyone the maximum time I've given them, four minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0565	One minute, sir, and I'm done.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0605par0566	Put him through, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0604par0567	I didn't give it to anyone, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0568	The last sentence, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0604par0569	I gave him four minutes, tops.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0570	But how many times have you extended Mr. Oktay?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0604par0571	Nothing, nothing... please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0572	That's where you stretched it out.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0604par0573	Okay, but I'll give you two minutes here without teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0574	The sentence is interrupted, Mr. President, and I will.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0604par0575	Just for the finishing line, please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0576	Yeah, I'll just tie you up.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0604par0577	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0578	We're uncomfortable with the European Court of Human Rights and the fact that you don't care about the European Convention, Mr. Oktay, and do you know why we're most uncomfortable?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0606par0580	Anti-terrorism.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0601par0581	We're not comfortable with you making fun of the suffering and suffering of our people, Mr. Oktay, who struggle with poverty every day to make ends meet. That's what we're saying, Mr. Oktay, and we're uncomfortable that you're not fighting against corruption, against theft, are we clear?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0607par0583	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0584	In fact, Mr. President, the Vice President's speech revealed all the problems of this new regime, which we have criticised for the feeling that it had created in general. Of course, there are reviews, there are answers, but it's the main problem of the system to open such a political area to Mr. Bazili, Ismet Beye, Mahir Ünal, Numan Survivmişa as he narrows down the political area -- each one of whom has the votes of the nation behind him -- who has the authority of a appointee from ink in a fountain pen, and who may be pardoned from his post this evening.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0609par0586	Your Honor, he's exercising his constitutional rights.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0587	He's crossed some boundaries, and he's come to a point where he's so...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0610par0589	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0590	... to send one party nostalgia to the republic's founding party, for example, that can't cover the fact that this party first saved the country that was invaded by one man's regime and then built it and then introduced it to democracy, but its own era is a transition from one-man regime from democracy to one-man regime. When you say (CHP) who's having a heart attack, it comes to you that someone else is kicking the ministers, not my President. (Cheers and applause) If you vote no to the counter, not to support the fight against terrorism, you vote no to North Iraq in November 2001, December and June 2002.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0610par0593	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0594	Be lawful with all your oppressors!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0611par0595	Don't hang up!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0612par0596	Don't wave your finger, don't wave your finger! Who are you waving your finger at?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0597	Wait a minute, guys.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0612par0598	Who are you waving your finger at?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0613par0599	Guys...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0600	If you want to open up a legalization debate, we've got something to settle, something to settle. If I tell you for just one example, you will be judged by the theft of Turkish TELEKOM. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Oh, Mr. Oktay, no CHP administrator, no politician, never said anything to anyone, but if you're trying to put that burden on our backs, I'll remind you of the tenders you've given like reward food in a contractor who curses the mother of a citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0613par0605	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0606	There's a limit to rashness and aggression, but you've put a burden on the nation's backs of our president!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0614par0608	At least show us the savings behind what you're saying, behind what you're doing. You've seen enough of the cameras!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0609	If you say, Mr. Oktay, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0615par0610	Don't twist, don't twist.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0611	If you have the courage, if you have the confidence, bring the people in front of the people, and see where the nation will draw the movement.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0616par0613	We stand by what we say, we stand by what we do.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0614	The last word, Mr. President, is that he says, "Look, it's easy, it's easy." I've asked everywhere, I've asked at the Commission, I've asked here once.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0617par0616	Mr. Special, one last minute.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0617	Look, your newspaper said, "They're just assholes at six different times," your newspaper said, "who will make headlines for you, swear at the day, and aim at the day when it comes." Because the financing of the coup gave us 3 billion United Arab Emirates with 15 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0618par0618	The Speaker's newspaper?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0619	This guy, the same guy, came in, didn't give it to me, said he'd give it to me, showed you 10 billion, trained you with dollars. If there's a schedule for this, I'm asking you, it's a wild card.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0619par0620	You're the real deal! You're the real deal!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0608par0621	What's the schedule for the arrival of ▪ in Turkey?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0620par0623	Mr. President, he can't use a statement like that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0621par0624	Come on, man!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0622par0625	You're the bad guy, the dirty guy.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0623par0626	You do the hand-to-hand thing, and then you talk about hard work. You're the real deal!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0624par0627	He's been assigned!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0625par0628	You're the real deal!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0626par0629	Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0627par0630	Mr. President, he can't use a statement like that.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0628par0631	You're the real deal!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0629par0632	He's been assigned!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0630par0634	Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0628par0635	It's you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0631par0636	Shame on you! That's enough!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0630par0637	Mr. Special, no matter who he is, he has no right to insult anyone here.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0638	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0630par0639	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0640	Mr. President, Mr. Group, I'm returning the testimony the Vice President used to himself above all else.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0633par0642	What's wrong with it?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0643	Because your statements here at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, above all, represent the will of the nation...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0633par0645	Is it him?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0634par0646	It doesn't represent people's will!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0647	It is an ugly language, contrary to the Law, which is not in accordance with the law of parliament. (AK PARTY and CHP rows) And your president will say to the bureaucrat appointed by this nation's elected president, the deputy president, who will not have the right to answer? [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it a sin for those of you who are allowed to do so? There's no such thing. What you're using here is overstatement, above all else. The Vice President has the right to answer, and he has not exceeded the limits of respect in response.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0635par0651	What else is he gonna say?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0652	Look, if you say what you want, you hear what you don't want.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0636par0653	That's right!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0635par0654	That's exactly what happened. He said he wanted it, he heard he didn't want it.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0655	So you can't dictate what you can and won't say to the Minister or MP who has a say here. Whatever rights you have in that House, whatever rights you have on that stand, whatever rights you have there, They have the same rights.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0637par0658	What did you come with?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0659	Not by doing demagogy, but by the power of the president, appointed by the president, elected by the nation by 52 per cent of the vote, he is an Vice President who has taken an oath on the parliamentary stand.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0637par0660	What did you come with? You came with an autograph.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0632par0661	Please, I invite you to be respectful.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0638par0663	He'll respect this place.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0639par0664	Dear friends, look, this is under the Civil Code and the Constitution, Mr. Vice President. His speech was not by his own personal request and by his own will, but by the Civil Code and by the Constitution, he was granted the right to speak. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Therefore, no congressman of ours here has the right to insult anyone else. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0640par0667	Where's the insult, Mr. President? Appointed, appointed. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0639par0668	Compare the words, compare the words.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0640par0669	No, what's wrong with that?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0639par0670	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0641par0671	Mr. President, thank you. First, let me say that in politics, he will give up politics that insult his expression. (Applause from CHP's rows) is a criticism that is not right. [[From the AK PARTY rows, let's go! Let's go! Let's go!]] Second, the person who makes such a heavy polemic with opposition as Vice President will endure this medium dose of criticism from the opposition. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Third, you will not defend the Vice President appointed as Speaker. If you're going to defend it, you're going to defend the House, and that's three.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0642par0678	It says that a clean language is used against Parliamentary Interior.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0641par0679	It's a normal language. You tell him there, you tell him there!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0642par0680	When I warn of this, I defend the House, and defend the Civil Law.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0641par0681	You tell him there, you tell him there!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0642par0682	You're going to appoint what I'm going to say? I'm not going to ask you what I'm going to talk about! Get out of here! [[Applause from the AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows, knocking on row doors]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] Members of parliament, the second speaker on behalf of him, the Co-Chair of the Democratic Districts Party, and Mr. Salihe Aydeniz, Diyarbakır MP. Here you are, Mr. Aydeniz. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0643par0693	I begin by saluting our people and our comrades held as political hostages in prisons. We're here to talk about the budget as we go through a very important period of time for Turkey, but we do know that this budget is not the budget of the people, the people, the people; we're dealing with the budget of the palace, the war, the lawlessness. There are a lot of reasons for that, of course, that I, in particular, will talk about some of the issues that have been denied, structural, political, and social. First, I want to make it clear that Turkey, as in many things, is a country that has sacrificed its economy to the war budget.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0644par0695	What war!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0643par0696	Because this is the age of power of attorney and hybrid warfare we've been through. Turkey is the head of countries that spend all their investments on hybrid wars. When we look at the resources set aside for the defence industry and the 5 major companies operating in this area, it exceeds 350 billion euros, which is 20 percent of the overall budget. So, as a citizen, 1 TL ($5) of every five TL) goes to arms and security expenses. When we look at the distribution of the 2022 budget, agriculture, earthquake regulations, urban policies, family, women, youth, social policies, law, industrial technology, the amount divided into seven ministries is $218.57 billion, below the budget for security, military space. The society doesn't know where these expenses are being spent, because the relevant institutions have never been transparent. However, the public knows very well where these expenditures are going; they know very well that every penny spent on war, on weapons, on health, on education, on values, and on future; that this power is in the hands of our children, not in the hands of weapons, but in the hands of armies, instead of industry, instead of technology, wants the war industry to develop fascism instead of democracy. Only the public knows? Of course not, the whole world knows that. Look, the Fiscal Action Task Force Organization for Avoiding Black Money Laundering has put Turkey on the gray list on the grounds that the laundering of black money and financing of terrorism are not successful and must be followed harder. Everyone knows what that means. But that's not all it is. Turkey is also ranked first in Europe and 12th in the Global Organised Crime Index Report. In every national and international report, Turkey's situation is pathetic. As with the policy of raising dollars, even all of this happens to be voluntary. We are now dealing with the mind of a regime, which is the sole cause of injustice, impotence, political impropriety, indecency, lack of virtue. Dear friends, you can bend and twist the truth, but you can't break it. Whatever problem we're talking about in this country, whatever dust we're getting on it, we're getting to the Kurdish problem. For the record, I would like to state that the Kurdish issue has recently published a report on the Kurdish problem and the war reality of the Democratic Development Institute. The report clearly rejects the current state mind. Turkey has been said to have lost three trillion dollars in the past 40 years because it chose security policies to solve the Kurdish problem. Here's what this power and its partner have sacrificed everything for the sake of war, is war, where young people, women, workers, laborers, and all their resources are being pursued and billions of dollars are willing to sink into debt. What, then, is it called the Kurdish problem, which has been so worked out for its unresolvedness and not the solution? Its essence is that Kurds break up their motherland and deny that social realities are deeply divided from self-inflictedness, that their political wills are rejected, that they are forced to submit in the face of denial, self-destructive methods, that their economic needs are transformed into a means of giving up their identity, that they become a cultural and ideological entity based on their own identities, and that their legal status is not recognised, that they are deprived of modern education tools and practices, that when all these fields are implemented by integration, their self-existence and self-existence. In other words, the Kurdish problem is not a national problem, but a question of destitution. That's exactly what you're afraid of facing. It is possible to see what the Kurdish problem is at the opening of this Assembly on October 1st, before going too far. The parliament opened in denial of the Kurdish problem. I'm told this problem has been solved in all its dimensions. As you claim, the Kurdish problem and solution cannot be heard by listening to two Kurdish songs. Shakespeare once told Roman rulers to be ashamed of the situation. We call power shame, shame. Those who don't give up on democracy say there's no Kurdish problem. Those who deny the Kurdish problem are doomed to lose power. It's not me, it's history. In the 1970s, the nationalist Front governments, the governments in 1980, lost the current government and its partner in the 1990s. Dear Assemblymen, Turkey continues to be the history of T's since it was built as a historic nation state; correction, discipline, punishment; tactilism, slaughter; representation, assimilation; reform, civilisation and dismantling, rulings. These policies are now included in T-type prisons and isolation. The main cause of current chronic issues in Turkey is the deepened isolation regime in the Imralı and the practice of special legal status. The absolute isolation of Mr. Ocalan and the three political prisoners next to him in the Imran is similar to that of the world and there is no example of the Imran law. When we ask, "Why is there isolation?," we reply to conflicting processes and terrorism. However, the reason this isolation is being implemented in this way is because Imralı has insisted on democratic solutions to the Kurdish problem; it is because the state rejects its policy to get rid of the Kurdish problem on the basis of individual rights. Which Imran talks called for war? Lawyers, family, lawmakers and state officials came to the island before and after they needed the solution. Is there a single conversation he's not trying to make peace with? Erdogan and government officials read every line of these talks. Which calls for war, fighting, fighting, unresolvedness? The last time he spoke to his lawyers, I'd be able to figure it out in a week. Who's trying to get even the smallest conversation to be a basis for peace? Why haven't we had a family and a lawyer's opinion in the last eight months? Why isn't it allowed? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0645par0703	Mr. Aydeniz...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0643par0704	Imranic isolation is not acceptable for authorities to remain silent in this process, with so much anxiety and anxiety being expressed. Time is running out; the country that struggles in crisis needs peace, common sense, not conflict, and that common sense is Ocalan. There's nothing moral, conscientious, legal and human about isolation. Insisting on isolation, he insists on endangering the existence of Ocalan, insisting on unresolving the Kurdish problem, insisting on war politics, insisting on not having dialogue, insisting on sacrificing the economy, our vaccine, our work to bullets, insisting on stealing the future of the peoples. As a result of all these insistences, it's no coincidence that today the deep state has become a form of governance of paramilitary forces and coup mechanics. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0646par0708	We've been listening to PKK propaganda for ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0647par0709	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0643par0710	The country's salvation comes from returning to the 2013 Nevruz manifesto and the Dolmabahçe agreement, listening to Mr Abdullah Ocalan, who insists on democratic politics. [[The noise from the AK PARTY lines, the noise from the voices, the noise from the "Woo!"]] Give up the anti-public hatred wheel, social polarization, emasculating, racism, looting politics. We will never stop saying it over and over again: open the Imran doors at once. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0648par0715	Members of parliament, the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law and the 2020-Year Central Management Computation Act have all been completed. Now, with the offer of the Central Management Budget Law... Mr. Fuat Oktay has a voice request. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0649par0719	You've started the procedure.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0650par0720	Complete the initial procedure, then give it to me. The process that begins is incomplete, this is Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0649par0721	You've started a process, Mr. President. But we're not peasants here, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0651par0723	But I wanted a promise.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0652par0724	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0653par0725	It's over. Okay, so we said the negotiations were done, and we didn't start another procedure.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0652par0726	All right, all right.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0653par0727	Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0654par0728	Thank you, Mr. President. I specifically wanted to take the words of Mr. Special. I, Mr. Special, am returning this unfortunate statement to Mr. Special. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) If ill-willed is not an insult, if not an insult, then he has no right to insult you. You'll say what you want, you'll do whatever you want, but if we say anything about him, anything you don't want to hear, you'll be insulted.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0655par0730	You must have forgotten what you said, Mr. Fuat. You seem to have forgotten what they said.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0654par0731	We say ritual is business. One doesn't listen to words. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you are not offended by your alliance partner, who says, "Ecalan of the right, Ocalan of the right, if you are not offended to hear this, then I will refer you to the people. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from CHP and HDP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0656par0736	Mr. Mahir was there, Mr. Mahir. Look, Mr. Mahir was there.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0657par0737	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0658par0738	It's written on the back of someone's pen with ink falling out of it, with millions of votes and a glorious...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0659par0740	The one on the tape, the one on the tape, the one on the tape.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0658par0741	We don't have a lesson in democracy from an appointed man whose destiny is pen ink, whose courage is not his own, and who has taken refuge in a palace guardianship.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0660par0744	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0658par0745	Besides, what he's trying to connect and push us into is an area where his own party gets in and out and gets humiliated in front of everyone. If anyone's going to make an account, let him answer the first thing he represents here is the President calling our martyrs.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0661par0747	Look at your partner, cursing at our martyrs!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0662par0748	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0661par0749	Look at Lütfü, look at Lütfü!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0663par0750	Look at you!
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0661par0751	Look at Lütfü, look at Lütfü! There's no Lütfü there.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0664par0752	Guys... Mr. Oktay, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0665par0754	Mr. President, if you want to know where our courage comes from, I'll tell you: We trust in God, we believe in God, and our courage comes from our faith, and we don't look elsewhere. If you look at where we came from, and how we came from, I'll tell you: We are here in accordance with the Constitution; it is true that we did not come with the tape. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0664par0757	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0666par0758	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say one thing first. Mr. Oktay implied that we were an alliance partner. We're not partners in any alliance. [[From the AK PARTY lines, come on!]] Clearly, clearly, we are not partners in any alliance. You laugh, laugh, we'll laugh together while you cry, that's number one. Two: Look, Abdullah Ocalan has the ability and experience to read events. You're so full of shit. Whose MP? The Justice and Development Party. (Applause from HDP rows, AK PARTY rows) Three: Abdullah Öcalan chose not to die, but to live. Who said that? Crescent Tiger. Where did you appoint Hilal Kaplan? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Where did you appoint Crescent Kaplan from the palace, Mr. Oktay? Isn't that someone you assigned to TRT? Four: "Abdullah Ocalan reads the future of the world very well." Says who? Yasin Aktay. Who is Yasin Aktay? Your director, the Justice and Development Party. It's not over, it's not over, wait, wait. If it hadn't been for the intruder, the blood would have taken away the body by now. Cem Small. Who's Cem Little? He's your associate writer. Wait, wait, here he comes, see what he says? He is clearing the way for Turkey in the Middle East. Hero Cloud, he said. Your colleague at the palace, Mr. Oktay. What are you telling us? First you're gonna look around, see who's saying what, then you're gonna come back and say something to us. (Applause from HDP rows)
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0667par0766	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0668par0767	Dear Private...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0667par0768	Mr. President, let me cut you some slack. Mr. Oktay says he gets his courage from God, and I don't know if there's any proof of that, but...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0669par0769	It's signed.
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0667par0770	... evidence of something that, with so much hunger and poverty and unemployment in the country, all this greed from the podium and all the aggression that has been shown against us...
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0670par0771	What's the movement of Kilicdaroğlu from the bench?
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0667par0772	...it is clear that he is not afraid of God. [[Applause from CHP rows]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD
tbmm-2021-12-06sit05spe0671par0779	[[Continue]] Now, I'm going to vote for the 2022 Central Management Budget Law and the 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. I submit to your votes that the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Act shall be passed on to the articles of the Proposal: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the 2020-Year Central Management Final Account Law Proposal be passed on to you: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Thus, the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law and the 2020-Year Central Management Law were adopted into Articles of the Final Accounting Law. Now, in order, I'm going to make you read the first article of the proposals: 2022 YEAR CENTER REPLICATES THE LAW OF THE BOTTOM Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (1,728,401,621.000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (III) private budgetary administrations include 155,249,695,000 Turkish liras, (c) 10.238.553,000 Turkish liras for regulatory and auditory institutions on the ruler number III) The grant is granted. 2020 YEARS CENTER REPLICATES THE BLOOD OF MY MANAGEMENT MADDE 1- (1) Adds 21/12/2019 to the Central Management Budget Act 2020, dated 10/12/2003 and Law on Public Financial Management and Control 5018; 1.082.021.197,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget on the ruler number I B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 82,423,174,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 7,623,700,000 to regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler. The grant is granted. (2) The central administration of 2020, which has been added over the year by the power vested in by the Laws, is added to Law 5018, as shown in the final account receipts of the central administration of 2020; A) (I) The budget costs of public administrations under the general budget are 1,183,163,137,365,95 Turkish liras, B) (II) The budget costs of private budgetary administrations are 120,169,070,771,45 Turkish liras, C) (III) The budget costs of regulator and auditory institutions are 6,864,039,042,62 Turkish liras, It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management net budget cost of 2020 is 1,203,737,135,307,17 Turkish Lira. Thank you. Parliamentary lawmakers will begin the discussion of central management budgets for 2022 and central management accounts for 2020 tomorrow, which are read within the scope of Article 161, under the Constitution's Article 161. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 7th 2021) to discuss the budget and final accounts of public administration. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
