tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Members of parliament, under the decision made in the 74th Union of the General Assembly of April 2021, according to our agenda, we begin our talks on the 101st anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day. Honourable MPs, our political parties' Mr. Presidents, my dear nation, we are gathered here to celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, to commemorate and understand the 101st anniversary of the foundation of our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our nation's will, our headquarters of our national struggle. I celebrate with the most sincerity the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of our beloved nation in different geographys of the world, our kinsmen and family communities, and our children who have this particular holiday. In the shadow of our moon-star flag, I remember the precious MPs of our House, our heroic veterans, and the sainted suspect who worked hard to live free and independent in the shadow of our star flag, especially the first president of the High Assembly, the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. With the spirit of April 23, 1920, enthusiasm, hope, faith in the national union, I salute you all with love and respect. I am also proud to be the son of a nation that gives their children a holiday on this historic day when national sovereignty is declared and the House opens. To present such a meaningful day to our children is a manifestation of faith in a nation that will lead to the future with the power from the past, struggling with all the challenges of the circumstances. Our effort is that our children will grow up to be free, free people of conscience, bound by the spirit of national sovereignty that understands the importance of national will. Dear MPs, when our House opened today a hundred years ago, the conditions were difficult, the possibilities were limited, the public landscape was dark. Our state, which had been defeated by the First World War, had to continue to exist, providing the unity of our nation, which had been exhausted from fighting for ten years. The most important stage of the national struggle, launched with this purpose, was the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 23 April 1920, following Friday prayer at Haci Bajram Mosque. Ankara has a new chapter in our nation's heroic past, where the nation's determination and determination, the only force to save the country, is the gathering of the national Assembly. Our parliament has earned the right to take the title of "Gazi Parliament" as the savior and founder of the Intervention, and has taken an exception among other parliaments around the world. Dear MPs, our legacy from the national struggle is not just the great and unprecedented courage of the threat of invasion. That image of pride is also a picture of faith that the challenge can only be found on the basis of national will, no matter how difficult the issues, the country and the nation are. Therefore, those who believe that national will can be interfered with by the claim that they are looking out for the welfare of the country, the nation and the state, those who approve or insinuate such interventions are contrary not only to the working rules of democracy, but also to the founding spirit of the republic. Strong Congress means strong nation. Any illegal, illegal intervention that targets Parliament's will, such as a coup attempt, a coup attempt, is essentially aimed at the nation. The first requirement for respecting national will is to respect the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Those who ignore the will of the nation, those who seek an opportunity to disrupt it, have done the greatest harm to our country, to our nation. Therefore, it is primarily the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to exercise national will. Protecting our republic and making our democracy work smoothly is possible with common intelligence, tolerance, and democratic competition. It is our democratic wealth that all political differences should be placed under this roof, unless we face public peace, democracy, the integrity of Turkey, as long as we don't take violence as a method, whether we encourage it or support it, as long as we don't stop the nation's prosperity and goals that are essential for the sake of the state. This is the spirit that created the First Assembly, that led to the success of the national struggle, and that is the yeast of our power. Dear MPs, Turkey's Grand National Assembly, gathered in Ankara a hundred years ago, became the embodiment and headquarters of the struggle for invasion of its homeland, its army, the existence of a disbanded nation. Lawmakers from different parts and origins worked in harmony with the same goal at the ranks of the Grand National Assembly. A hundred years ago, Turkey is the historical quality of the Grand National Assembly, and it is their unwavering belief in the full will of the first legislature, which gives it its true soul. As such, the nation's beating heart, the working brain, the singing tongue, has become its ankle, personal or political conflicts have not been involved in conflict and conflict. The MPs who served in the first legislature, such as Gazi Mustafa Kemal, whom Amasya Tamim, was introduced as a guide to the matter of the country. I must point out that this solidarity, integrity, and the most defiant state of the nation have found its meaning in the Istlical Anthem. The acceptance of this immortal text with the enthusiastic applause and applause of lawmakers a century ago reflects the quality of the First Assembly. May God not allow the deceased, Mehmet Akif, to write an Instigative Anthem again in this nation. Let us add, "Amen." Let us not separate this nation from the spirit and the meaning of its statement in the Instigative Anthem. " [[AK PARTY AND GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, a national struggle is more than just a struggle for powers, a struggle for mentality. The theme of counting non-like ones, Muslims and Turks, in particular, should be corrected and disciplined is one of the basic attributes of the Western political mind, described by the late Akifën as a single-female monster. That's why the national struggle, which the Veteran Assembly carried out a hundred years ago was a source of inspiration, not just for our beloved nation, but for all the oppressed nations. I find it necessary to say here that we are not the only ones who need to learn from the national struggle that has laid the foundation of Turkey in modern terms and the national choice that has uncovered this struggle. From this epic struggle that took place on our land a century ago, Westerners and our neighbors, every state with contact and relationship with Turkey, every international focus, has much to learn. For one thing, it must be known that our nation's steeled will is a subdivided force that would act in the same way against those who tried to invade our country a century ago for a miserable and unjust desire. The national response to the July 15 coup attempt and the invasion remains fresh in memory as the most subtle and striking example of the will I recall. Another thing those who have an account of Turkey must remember is the unstoppable determination of our nation when it comes to the country. A hundred years ago, the spirit that moved the nation for salvation is still alive, and when necessary, it keeps us ready to make every effort and struggle to protect every inch of the country and every drop of the Mediterranean. It's historically stable that we, as state and nation, have always preferred peace, peace, co-operation, and negotiation to war, to prosperity for the parties, unless we have to. Turkey is unconditionally open to any relationship based on justice, mutual respect and international law. Hususen, it is important for the well-being of our people to establish productive relations with the states of our common civilization. Dear lawmakers, the Covid epidemic we've been living in for over a year has been instructive in many ways. One of the consequences of this disaster, which affects mankind without distinction, is the unfair quality of the current global system that does not focus on people. The global system and its institutions are far from sustainable. It is imperative that a reform process, immediately and inclusion of all parties, be launched by the global justice initiative. If this is not done, it is inevitable that there will be new conflicts, unrest, and upsets that could have devastating consequences in the world. Turkey's stance on this issue is greater than the 5th part of the world by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. World peace can be brought to justice by this truth and its offer. The world is on the verge of a great transformation. At this point, we can safely say that Turkey, a relative to the belief that created the national struggle, would be the most reliable, strengthened nation in this age of transformation, for the benefit of mankind and for the brightest of its outcome. There are signs of this belief, and the signs of this prediction are too obvious to deny, as long as we adopt a mind and movement in the spirit of the Veteran Assembly, where we understand the 101st anniversary of its establishment today. On this meaningful day, we will learn from the spirit of the national struggle and from the First Assembly, one thing that we will learn from the hard struggle is to keep hope and self-esteem alive. Those who have despaired of this country, of this nation, of this state, of this state, we are broken, we are damned. Those who repeat the bejesus like a virt, they have always spread the idea that the conditions are too heavy to handle, and they will always be. But we need to know that the national struggle has not only been won against the enemy; it has been won, to some extent, against this kind of mental occupation, against those whose spirit has been crushed. That's why all of us, especially our young people, should know that today Turkey is humanity's claim of justice and that our range will always be forward. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, our beloved nation, who led the opening of the House with confidence in the conquest and sovereignty of this holy nation, saying, "First, before this nation, before this day, a hundred years ago, the nation." I live by the grace and grace and gratitude of our veterans, who have served under this roof, the most rightful means to ensure the world's most righteous struggle under the roof of our Veteran Assembly, and who have entrusted us to this land, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who served under this roof, our precious deputies, who sacrificed their lives for the sake of this land. I celebrate the 101st anniversary of the opening of our Veteran Assembly and our 23rd April National Sovereignty and Children's Day, which we pride ourselves on as the first holiday to be given to children in the world. I hope to see our children reunite with each other and with the children of the world starting in 2022, ending the conditions of the plague, sharing my desire and desire to celebrate April 23rd more cheerfully, more enthusiasticly. Yours truly. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, I will make a five-minute commitment to the leaders of the political parties represented in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for ten minutes, and to the heads of political parties that do not have a group in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I read the order: Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Chairman of the Justice and Development Party Assembly Group, Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu, Chairman of the Republican People's Party and Parliament Party, Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu, Chairman of Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Assembly Group Chairman of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) İstanbul MP Mr. Pervin Buldan, Deputy Chair of the Group, İstanbul MP Hakk Saruhan Oluç, Parliamentary Party's President and Parliament Speaker of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. Erkan Akçay, Chair of the Party of the Party of the Party (İR) The first statement belongs to Justice and Development Party Parliamentary Group Chairman Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0002par0030	Mr. President, Mr. Presidents, esteemed MPs, first of all, I salute you all. This is the 101st year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Happy April 23rd, national sovereignty and the holiday of our children, of all the children of the world. I honor and cherish all lawmakers, martyrs, veterans, who have served in the past, primarily Ataturk and his companions. They worked very hard to do their part in different conditions in the country. On April 23, 1920, this Parliament was opened under extremely difficult circumstances. Once again, in the First World War, from Çanakkale to Yemen, from the Caucasus Front to Galicia, the children of this land fought for their country; they became martyrs and veterans. In the gloomy mood of the Mondros Investigation, the sons of this country also witnessed the invasion from every branch. In times of such disarray, the bright light of history separates heroes from others in the most obvious way. I'd just like to give an example -- the example in history is a lot -- the example is: On May 15, 1919, the patriot who telegraphed Izmir's occupation to the Isum Directorate in Istanbul, and who wanted to stir up this mess with false news, who immediately disturbs the peace of the nation, and what needs to be done. Sadrazam is, of course, people of different worlds. The existence of the country, the veracity of its existence, the Terakkici or the Hurriyet Opposition doesn't even provide an excuse, it doesn't justify escape, because whatever party, whatever mentality you're from, the circumstances will push aside any difference and make it necessary for your country to join together on the same level for the lives and future of these beautiful and honorable people. There are only those who do it and those who don't. Ataturk, the military and political genius of Ataturk, I live in freedom, I live in freedom. He lies in uniting people who cry out for a common ideal, guiding the faith of fighting in the most desperate times, and pulling the Republic of Turkey out of these critical processes with its companions. The most important and vital decision of the period, no doubt, is to open the House as the heart of the national struggle after the Erzurum and Sivas Congress. With the republic declared three and a half years after this date, the stones of the system are in place because the republic is the regime of the people of the age, the people of the family, the people who are qualified, so it's virtue. The House is exalted because it represents the common mind through the will of the nation, and it is the body of the nation. Within a hundred years, this Parliament saw its single party period, Terakkiperver and Free Frakkas, witnessed the transition to multi-party life, closed in 1960 and 1980, paranthesiized in 1971, shade of custody dropped on February 28th, wanted to be placed in direction on April 27th, finally used the mankurts to use the gun they gave to use against the nation against the enemy. We know how those who dare to do so are punished by the people and the law. Let's not forget that we may have a variety of criticisms of 100 years of history, political representations here, but at the final point, that's our history, that's all of us, no one else has history. The past should be understood by the calm and profound mind of history, not by hot political polemics. History is called the mirror of the past, the comb of the future. So, the past isn't just the past, it lives and moves into the future today. As for some results from a hundred and one years ago, the first is the reality of how our fate is shared beyond all differences of opinion. Sometimes, political competition can cloud this fateful partnership. Here are the historic days of the opening of the House, which offer an opportunity for those who remain in the shadows to be brought to light once again by different policies. It's unthinkable for even primitive tribes to skip the spirit of partnership rituals that they care about, to make them insignificant by an advanced society. Second, in this place where the people's will is represented, any kind of negotiation is very valuable because that's where people's pulses are. Of course, there are consequences, not just rational words, respectful speeches, but sometimes heated debates, or even excessive talks, even for those who listen and listen, that turn to persecution and suffering. However, it must be appreciated that it is possible for the House to do its duty, not in the voice, but in the basis of a so-called collective mind. This is the place in which politics should be transformed into the wisdom of winning even the enemy of the art of human gain. Of course, valuable lawmakers know very well how to handle this from their own experience. Third, running countries is not an easy task. The balance between limited resources and endless demands is needed. Critics are valuable, but there is no doubt that the genuine criticism of the balance that exists in the nature of the conditions will be taken into account much more by everyone. On the other hand, today Turkey is in a critical phase of foreign policy from Eastern Mediterranean to Syria, from relations with allies to regional balances, finally to the EU. The language, the style, the criticism of the method may be brought, but at the final point, it is valuable and justified to express a common attitude about common interests in a much higher voice. Fourth, democracy is the source of all of our superior values, legitimacy. It is our duty to uphold democracy. The enemy of democracy is not only fascism and totalitarianism; the greatest enemy is to criticize the existing democracy in a way that is beyond measure based on the comparison of an ideal democracy. He is a perfect enemy of good and truth, they say. Power is in every regime, but opposition is only in democracy, I'm sure. If so, let us not forget that the opposition has been served as well as the power. On the other hand, a major danger to democracy today is the tendency in the digital age to transform politics from reality to image. We need to resolve our issues by talking to each other through the real language of the real world, not with a small section of the world, or a small one. The fifth is an important lesson for the future of history's politics: criticism is precious, but more importantly, the unity of society, of its future, of its prosperity, is how much convincing language is being given. We, the AK PARTY and the Cumhur Alliance, are proud of our House. All our efforts are to better understand the political struggle that we have fought for the common interests of this Parliament, which is consolidated by the people's consent, and to provide more representation, again, for the greater well-being of this nation. For many years, our beloved nation has made every choice with common sense and insight and given it to its rightful owners. People respect their will, respect the nation who gives trust to its rightful owners, no doubt the right to govern power, respect the right to criticize the opposition. Of course, it can be done by those who wish for a single man's civil coup and similar criticism, but it should be appreciated that this statement is conflicted with the source of logic and the legitimacy of the direct speaker, and at the final point, it is a declaration of the choice of the nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, the past always speaks to the future. This April 23rd will soon be history, and every word here will fall into the future. With knowledge that tomorrow is important as much as today, I sincerely believe you will serve as the place of the nation's will for the 101st year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With gratitude and gratitude to the members of the High Council who have lost their lives, I pay my respects to their members today, expressing my strong faith that we will all continue to work for our country together. With all due respect.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0003par0048	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. In turn, it belongs to the Republican People's Party's President and Parliamentary Group Chairman, İzmir MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0004par0052	Mr. President, I congratulate our esteemed citizens, our future, our hope, dear children, the name of the Republican People's Party, the 101st anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and your National Sovereignty and Children's Day on April 23rd. Mr. President, last year we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the establishment of our Turkish Grand National Assembly. In my speech on this bench last year, I shared with you the transition of Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk to Anatolia to begin the national struggle under the circumstances under which he left Istanbul. Ataturk describes the beginning of this great journey at the session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 24, 1920: "On 16 May 1919, I left Istanbul until I saw the nation independent and free of enemies, depending on the great will of the national conscience. Dear MPs, the expression of Ataturk (Ataturk) is an expression that sums up the philosophy of the national struggle conducted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey. According to Mustafa Kemal, there is no problem that a will powered by the sovereignty of the nation cannot overcome. To establish the great will of the national conscience, rather than the will of one man, is the only way we can solve the problems that our country is going through today. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the most important target he set before this Grand Assembly opened on a Friday a hundred years ago was to remove the enemy from Anatolia as soon as possible. Another key issue Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends considered as important as the expulsion of the enemy from Anatolia was to establish the legal basis for the struggle for salvation. For this reason, a constitution that first determines the backbone of the state has been established and has been adopted in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It was the first constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which was to be established on October 29, 1923, with this understanding and responsibility. Since the will of one person is based on the will of the nation, the 1st Article of the Act of the Organization is laid out in the form of the common people. (HPP) This arrangement is part of the following constitutions. Thus, our struggle for the National Liberation War is not only a military battle, but a constitutional struggle for our National Liberation War, and then a constitutional democracy. This struggle is still going on today. Yes, the Constitution, which is in effect today, also states that it is the nation's unconditionalness. Again, the Constitution says that the use of authority cannot be left to anyone, group or class at all. The same article: the Turkish nation uses its sovereignty with its own hands. As you well know, these organs are legislatures, judicial and executive bodies. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a Parliament titled "Gazi Parliament" for leading the National Liberation War. For this particular reason, this Assembly should be meticulous about its own authority, not silenced by the extortion of its authority. No custody of this House should feel a shadow on it. This Parliament must monitor whether the governing body of its own free will obeys the law. (HPP's applause) This Parliament must know and inspect the public's taxes, debt and privatisation revenues. This Assembly must be very sensitive to corruption and defend the right of an unfinished orphan with conviction and determination to the end. (HPP) He needs to know that even in the process of the National Liberation War, this Assembly does not allow the country to be ruled by the law. This Parliament must know that Turkey has a responsibility to address its most fundamental problems when it comes to its place and to produce solutions. This Parliament should take the most honorable stand for human rights violations and not allow human rights violations. It is necessary to investigate why the state-run merit system, which has been gradually destroyed, and the costs it puts on society. This assembly is free of press, which is part of the Constitution, which cannot be censored. It needs to investigate the principle of why and how the executive body violates it. (HPP) This Assembly must investigate and question the problems and causes of the unemployed army, which exceeds the number of 10 million. This Parliament must today investigate and question why 2 million 538 thousand students in Turkey of the 21st century could not reach the EBA. This Assembly needs to know the cost of foreign currency guaranteed investments in public-private cooperation and the burden of guarantees on our children. This Parliament must question why the one-man government is borrowing currency from its own citizens in its own country. This Parliament needs to know which banks, who, which currency sold 128 billion dollars in the Central Bank. (HPP) This Assembly must know and question why the atomic plant in Mersin Akkuyu will sell the world's most expensive electricity to the industrialist and why this expensive purchase guarantee is given to foreigners. This Parliament must question the moral foundations of the state's largest constructions and why only five companies are guaranteed foreign currency, and why they are not being held in a fair contract. This parliament needs to investigate why public institutions and public banks only advertise and advertise in certain newspapers and televisions and why this immoral behavior is so immoral. This Parliament should not allow the executive body to rule over the judiciary. (HPP's applause) This Parliament should not allow the Supreme Court to be appointed a judge. This council must investigate why our young children seek their future abroad. This Parliament must never forget that it has a duty to crown our republic with democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My fellow citizens who listen to us at the beginning of their screens, this is what I say will bring honor to this House in the face of history. A Parliament that will do these things, to question them, is a House that will reassure the people. That's the kind of Congress we want. We want our legal system cleared of military and civil coup law. This is one of the basic duties of the Veteran Assembly. We want justice, we want law, we want justice. We want the nation to choose its deputies. We want to live in peace with all our citizens in this paradise country, regardless of our views, faith and identity. Dear young men, dear children, let no one despair, and we will do all this with the will of God. We will bring peace and happiness in this beautiful country. No child will go to bed hungry, every parent will send their child to school in safety. Our young people will live to earn their future by working in their own country, not abroad. With such feelings and thoughts, I honor and cherish the 115 MPs who arrived at the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on April 23, 1920, including Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. To our citizens who died in the outbreak of Covid-19, to our security forces who were killed in the fight against terrorism, I ask Allah to be patient with those who are near to mercy. And with all our veterans, I give thanks to all the health workers who have moved and honored us and who have worked with sacrifice and fought against this plague. Thank you, dear MPs.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0005par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. It now belongs to Peoples' Democratic Party Co-Chair and Parliamentary Group Chairman Mr. Pervin Buldan instead of Group Deputy Chair İstanbul MP Hakkı Saruhan Oluç. Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0006par0068	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I convey our heartfelt love to our people who watch us at the beginning of the screens. A hundred and a year ago, I celebrate the foundation of the House and the day we remembered that time and the holiday of all the children. As I begin my speech, I lovingly greet all of our elected deputies, Ayhan Bilgen and Selçuk Mizraklı, all of our co-chairs, party managers and party members, in the hands of our former co-Chairs, Selçuk Yüksekdağ. Again, I send our regards to Leyla Güven, the children of Musa Faris and Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu, who have been demoted this semester. Congressmans, I wish we could speak of this bench today in the 101st year of the very important assembly's establishment, from a democratic country, a system that provides social justice, a strong Parliament that can solve the fundamental problems of the people, and a people's will whose sovereignty has not been constantly blocked; I wish we could evaluate this for a hundred years, but unfortunately that's not the case. Today, democracy is under heavy pressure, almost handcuffed. The separation of forces has been abandoned, replaced by a unit of forces assembled in one person. Identity, beliefs, languages, cultures, universal and basic human rights, civil rights are not guaranteed in this country. Democratic politics, social opposition and civil society are under heavy siege. The sense of justice has been destroyed. In all areas, including isolation, there has been a lack of pleasure and unlawfulness that does not apply its own law, constitutional principles, international democratic contracts signed by it. Law doesn't exist for everyone today, it's only for the masters and the powerful. Parliament, which must be maintained by the sovereignty of the people, is under the rule of the administration. The ruling and biased judiciary sees itself above Parliament by interfering with Parliament's will with its political decisions. Freedom of thought, expression, press and communication is violated every day. All wealth is gathered in the face of the demand for fair income and social justice of working poor peoples, while the people are getting poorer and poorer every day, with unemployment, hunger, and poverty. In short, in the 101st year of parliament, we face a bad and misguided Turkey. When the assembly was established in 1920, it was based on real people's sovereignty. The 1921 Constitution was based on a decentralisational understanding. The foundation's foundations have been destroyed over time, and for a century, all of this country's identities and cultures have been excluded, otherized. The democratisation of the Republic has always been blocked by coups, interferences; new problems and new crises have been added to the issues of oppressive, authoritarian systems and governance. An important result of the republic's lack of democratisation has been the Kurdish problem that has not been solved for a hundred years. An approach to the Kurdish problem, one of Turkey's most fundamental problems, was followed by conflict and elimination rather than dialogue and negotiations. The unresolved Kurdish problem created an unresolved Turkey. The Kurdish problem cannot be solved because the republic is not democratised today, and the Kurdish problem cannot be resolved, and the republic cannot be democratized because the Kurdish problem cannot be solved. The existence of the Kurdish problem leads the state and the ruling system to lack of law and democracy. Likewise, the system did not recognise their faith identities, especially in the Aflammatory. At the same time, this sexist, authoritarian system -- female identity and will -- rejected and rejected the existence of women. For example, the Istanbul Convention, which was a very important gain of women, was dissolved by one person in the middle of the night, and a man in the name of millions of women was able to decide, but that contract was approved in this Parliament. So this step was also a step against the will of the House. Just as in trustee coups, the people's freedom of choice and selection was won, the people's will from the chest was stolen, political corruption was committed. So, what's the point? The ruling party's municipalities are remembered for human trafficking, and trustee municipalities are associated with corruption. Not only the Court reports, but the Ministry of Interior investigators have identified these corruption and thefts. The corruption wheel has been moved to the ground, and trustees from the centre have passed through history with corruption, irregular spending and theft. If lawlessness, impropriety, joy, arrogance, and power are made a way of worship, if control is eliminated, everything will go out of control, and that's what happens. Members of parliament, the presidential government system, which was laid down in 2017, has entered its 5th year; apart from discrimination, inequality, oppression, persecution, lawlessness, the waste of power, what did it bring? He didn't bring anything. On the contrary, this system has taken a lot. This system has become a system of transport, not yield; it has led to fragmentary democracy; it has brought justice, law, principles of the Constitution. He took the authority of parliament, the resources that needed to be reflected in the pockets and tables of the people. With that attitude, the power became just a matter of thinking about its future, and only its own. A understanding that did not think of the people in the epidemic, that left the people in the face of Covid and social insecurity, that fed the workers with code 29, that posed with trillion-year-old vehicles and money bales when people were hungry and unemployed, has become a burden on this country and society as well. Congressmans, before the republic turns 100, there is only one road ahead; the democratic republic road. What Turkey needs is the democratisation of the republic. Democracy must be strengthened by economic and social policy preferences. In order for the regime crisis to deepen and not grow, the republic must truly meet democracy, have a democratic and liberal structure, be strengthened by its concept of participation and negotiation democracy. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) The law of equal and free citizenship must prevail. This republic should be based on respect and integrity, not on unity through singleness, but on multiples and differences. We insist on democratic politics. It's clear that as democratic politics grows stronger, our problems expand and expand by talking, by dialogue, by negotiating. We cannot solve any of Turkey's problems through conflict and violence. We can negotiate, we can talk, we can argue, we can solve all our problems. We don't have any problems, especially the Kurdish problem, so we can't talk it out. Once again, I remind you that the hard experience of a century must have shown everyone that the next century shouldn't have the same crises. We're calling for a country where everyone's tongue, identity, color, they're together, they're together, they're together, they're happy. It is the right of all people in this country to live in peace and peace. We care about a strong democracy alliance with all parties, with all those who favour democracy, justice, peace, law, to repair all the heavy destruction. We believe that with a great meeting around democracy, we will be able to protect our rights and laws, keep all the colors of these fertile lands together. In the face of hopelessness created, in the face of fear, in the face of darkness, we sustain and sustain hope. (Applause from HDP rows) Our call is to Parliament and to the entire country, to society: Let us all set the stage for democracy and a new social agreement, social peace, without polarization, without segregation. Let's take a country to the edge of the cliff together. Let's strengthen the parliament and the republic with local democracy and entrust the balance and control networks to the security of yellow democracy near the law. Let's create the basis of a civil, democratic, liberal, egalitarian and pluralistic constitution based on capacitorism. Let us open the way for a new social contract that meets the needs and expectations of the people. Let's increase common values, mutual respect. Today, as a children's festival, each child faces serious problems that it can't carry until it has lost its way through child labor, violence and abuse, lack of education in its native language, losing its life in work killings, losing its future in drugs. A hundred years ago, it was imagined to be a holiday for children. It is our duty to leave a country of peace and democracy, peace and prosperity to the children, rather than a holiday stuck in one day. Let's create a beautiful country for the children; instead of authoritarianism, let's put democracy, justice instead of lawlessness; instead of conflict and crisis, peace, democratic reconciliation; instead of guardianship, let's put the people's will. I salute all our peoples and all of you.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0007par0080	Thank you, Mr. Oluç. It is now up to Mr. Erkan Akçay, deputy leader of the National Movement Party and Parliamentary Group, to replace Mr. State Bahçeli, MP of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0008par0084	Mr. President, we are gathered in honor of the 101st anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this blessed day, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I salute our beloved nation and your honorable delegation. Congressmans, over the centuries we've created diverse states, we've built civilizations, we've lived in three continents for centuries, we've broken down every obstacle and we've broken down their evil games. The Turkish nation, however, has been exposed to attacks that began about 150 years ago, to casualties, disasters, beca threats. In the long years of war, our population had melted, our nation was poor and weary, our economy had collapsed. A hundred and three years ago, Britain, France, Italy, and Greece invaded our country, our armies were disbanded, our weapons seized; on the one hand, the invaders who turned all their forces to fire, and on the other hand, a group of collaborators and handmen who begged for protection. Under these harsh conditions, Hatay was shot against Kara Mehmet, Hasan Tahsin in İzmir, Ali Çetinkaya in Ayvalıqaklı, Maraş, İmam in Maraş, Memik Agha in Antwerp and Memik Agha in Turkey. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk took the first step towards Samsun on May 19, 1919, where congresses were held to promote independence and national sovereignty to the land. In this direction: On 22 June, Amasya was announced that the integrity of the country and the independence of the nation were at stake, and the independence of the nation would again save the nation's determination and decision. On 23 July, in Erzurum Congress, the country was united within the national borders, not broken. The cry was announced to the world. On the 24th of July, in Balıkesir, on 8 August, in Nazilli, on 16 August, the convention gathered in Alaşehir, Kuvaimilliya began to become a regular army of sovereignty and the fronts were set up. The delegation was organized for national domination. On September 4, 1919, the Sivas Congress declared that the manda and protection would not be accepted, that the national will would be judged in all the land. The occupied British forces occupied Istanbul on March 16, 1920, and the Parliament-i Mebusan was issued. After that, the gathering of a parliament with extraordinary powers has become mandatory in Ankara. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey opened a hundred years ago with the prayers and will of heroes from all over the country. It has been declared to the whole world that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. In the humble building of Ulus, in the wooden rows brought from the schools, under the well - gas lamps, under the paper reports, in the sound of cannons from Poland, they took possession of the land's destiny. This great Parliament is the Veteran Assembly, which rules our War of Istliklal. The Veteran Assembly is the work of the Turkish nation, which embraces independence as a character. The Veteran Assembly is the will to tear up the surrender papers. Dear lawmakers, April 23rd is the release of Ergenekon, the Turkish nation's determination to live in unity and unity, fully independent and civilized; the day we merged in the national state country, ethnic origins, language, sects, and non-discriminations. April 23rd is the day people's will becomes government. April 23rd is the milestone of the road to the republic. And April 23 is the first and only holiday given to all children in the world by Ataturk. Dear MPs, the Grand National Assembly has also fought epidemics such as the occupations of our country on one hand, and on the other hand, tuberculosis, malaria, and typhus, as in the outbreak of Covid-19 today, there has been a total struggle against the state, nation hand in hand. Honourable MPs are the memory of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Republic of Turkey. Our country's future has been built here, its development moves are under this roof, and our democracy and political lives have matured at this time, but the national will has also been subjected to various attempts at coup and custody over the past 60 years. On July 15, 2016, the traitors of the ▪ bombed this lofty roof. A hundred years ago, despite the sound of the cannons from Poland, our Parliament, which has not stopped working for the nation, gave the imperial servants the lesson they deserved on the night of July 15th, and was re-titled "Gazi. " However, unfortunately, the coup d'état and guardian mentality has not yet been destroyed, and today our House must be wary of those who seek coup and guardianship, those who seek protection from outsiders and those who beg for power. (MHP and AK PARTY) These are still showing themselves in the most evil form, in fancy masks, sometimes in the middle of the night. We remind those in this mentality that the state and the nation don't sleep, and they don't retire. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Dear lawmakers, in accordance with the founding philosophy of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we conduct legislature activities based on the vision of the presidential government system. With this system, our Veteran Assembly has achieved a high representation of about 95 percent in a century's history. With 12 political parties, 5 groups and 10 independent MPs, it has pluralism, justice in representation, and a compromise structure as of the distribution of chairs. Our coven has achieved a strong, functional and more democratic structure with a separation of forces. On the other hand, more than 50 per cent of representation in the execution has made the national will strong. Turkey is making up for lost years with the presidential government system. We don't have time to lose by fighting blind fights, demagogues, with absolute and fanatical understanding. Honourable MPs, our Istrillal March, the epic of our Battle of Salvation, the steeled expression of our nation's struggle for existence. The year 2021, the 100th year of the adoption of the Instruction March, was determined by a law as the Year of the Instruction March. This decision is in harmony with the theme and spirit of our Parliament's 101st year. Don't let God make our nation write the Istrillal March again. I hereby congratulate you on the April 23rd National Sovereignty and Children's Day, honoring our beloved martyrs, our national struggle heroes, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the great leader of our future struggle and his heroic friends.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0009par0095	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Now, it belongs to Mr. Ismail Tastüoğlu, the chairman of the PTA Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Tastyoglu.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0010par0099	Mr. President, on behalf of the V.A. Party, I salute the Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. A hundred years ago in Ankara, who declared the nation's unconditional sovereignty in Ankara, who opened the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the first President of our Gazi Parliament, the Commander-in-Chief of the War of Istliklal, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and all our comrades and all our martyrs, who have served in the national sovereignty of the founding staff so far, with mercy and gratitude and respect. A hundred years ago, the nation's desire to seize its own destiny was determined and registered that the only source of legitimacy, the one and only true judge, was the nation. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the only Parliament that carries the War of Independence to victory and therefore has the title of the Shaazi Parliament. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has acted on the consciousness of the responsibility that history has imposed on it from the day it was founded. He carried it out on all the grounds and at all times needed, including July 15th. Today, a hundred years ago, the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the announcement of the republic following it is an achievement applauded by history, a high leap in our nation's historic march, a legendary modernisation move for our nation, and a response to the search since 1699. Dear lawmakers, the existence of the national legislature in a country and in this country is undoubtedly the first and fundamental condition of national sovereignty in that country, but it is not the only and only necessary for national sovereignty to exist. National sovereignty is based on the establishment of the rule of law through a parliament that is literally leaning on people. National sovereignty is possible with the establishment of the division of forces, with the right use of legislation, executive and judicial powers by those with that authority. National sovereignty is possible by making each member of the nation feel that its will exists in parliament, by maintaining the Parliament's reputation for any arbitrary intervention. The national sovereignty is possible with the will of this Parliament to establish the law and by the exception of the title that it carries from the people; it is possible with the supervision of the administration, which is in charge of implementing these laws. If so, it is the nation that owns the state. The definition becomes meaning. (Applause from the Party) Otherwise, those who have the power to pass the law will have the power to obey what they want and to disobey what they don't want. Those who are not responsible for their powers, those who are free of direct or indirect control of the House, appear to be the main owners of the state by the nation. Dear lawmakers, when we look at this framework, Turkey fell behind a hundred years ago and turned to the appearance of a party state. Today, Turkey has no place at the state gate for those not around it. Today, in Turkey, laws and rules have become mandatory for citizens, pleasure for power and environment. If it is proper, it is obeyed; if it is not, laws and rules are made fit. The existing control mechanisms, which are intended for the operations of the administration in Turkey today, have been disabled; public operations have been moved to impossible areas to control. Today in Turkey and in this order, the state appears to belong to only those who hold power. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is the ward. This was the process of custody imposed on our nation on February 28th. In recent years, step-by-step, new guardianship, which has deepened with the party presidency over the past three years, has been in a similar way. In clear terms, the law and the judiciary in Turkey today are under the shadow of governance, and the conditions for the unity of forces are in our country. The attitude of the appointed, political-speaking public staff and bureaucrats against the elected presents an exemplary picture of this new custody. In the words of the late Ali Fuat Basgil, a valuable person of law and politics says:.. with a certain experience, political power must not be gathered in a hand; it must be free and secure against one another. It's a state of affairs in the government. On the contrary, if all forces are assembled in one hand and at the first, it becomes a will and a decree that will have an extremised authority, whether it is a person or a delegation. Dear lawmakers have shown us for nearly a century since the opening of the Grand National Assembly that when the rule of the nation has been clouded, Turkey has lost power, corruption and poverty has increased, Turkey has been dragged into an authoritarian political atmosphere, the process of poverty and the end of trust in the judiciary has been in such processes. On the other hand, Turkey stood up and rose at times when national sovereignty gained power, when commitment to democracy, to rights and freedom, to justice and to righteousness, was strengthened and respected by the rule of law. In this country, it is possible, and it is possible, that unity, unity, wealth will prevail, and only by the strong movement of national sovereignty. Today, the only path ahead of Turkish politics is to restore the power created by national sovereignty. It's to make the entire nation the owner of the state without making any exceptions to the entire 84 million. (PEOPLE APPLAUSE) This is the way to take Turkey ahead of the age. In the presence of national sovereignty, the ownership of the state belongs to the entire nation, and in this context, the identity of the Republic of Turkey, which each of our citizens carries in their pocket, is the property of the state. And every person with that identity is a shareholder of the state of eighty-four million to one. And each share is neither lower nor more valuable than the other. And that gives each individual the authority to maintain their rights and laws, and to object if they are not obeyed by their rights and laws. That's what we, the Good Party, understand about national sovereignty. Our main goal in politics is to make our nation happy, our state strong, by ruling this climate. Each of the 84 million is to make sure that an honorable life remains a part of a happy society, in which there is no shortage of modernity in the world. I hereby celebrate the national kingdom and the children's feast of our nation, and pay tribute to the great assembly.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0011par0112	Thank you, Mr. Tastyoglu. It is now up to the Turkish Labour Party's President and Istanbul MP Mr. Erkan Baş. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and all our citizens who watch us at the beginning of the screens, where our voices reach. I salute the establishment of the Assembly, which represents the united struggle of the people against occupation and the rule order, and respect all the MPs who have worked for Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his people. Dear citizens, we are gathered here today to celebrate the opening of the House, national sovereignty, and the Day of Childhood. So let's set up three sentences first. One, the House has been transformed into the notary of the palace. Two: the sovereignty, unfortunately, is not your people, but your one man. Three: Children can't celebrate the holiday because this power is trapped in our children's homes by irrational pandemic rule. Dear citizens, if we're going to talk about sovereignty, we'll take care of the children. If children are unhappy, their sovereignty is at stake. For example, that's the coup d'état of September 12th. America's children succeeded, costing our children their lives. Those who walked in their path stole the future of our children and pursued a court regime to the country. Look where the land came from: Aunt Adile had lambs, and now there are totsuns. We had kids who learned to play the flute, and now we have horse thieves who steal horses. There were children who had fun with the rabbit that Sermet Erkin had taken out of the hat, and now there are billions of dollars who had nothing to do with the sleight of hand. There were children lined up for leprechaun dust with iron money, and now there are people in millions of dollars of cars with powdered sugar. And when that's the way things are, in education, in health, in freedom, in hopeless youth, I'm afraid we're at the bottom of the world ranking, and that's your work. You tried to get out of the Istanbul Convention when hundreds of children's mothers were killed in front of them. Your children didn't even go to the army, but you did propaganda on the coffin of your poor children.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0013par0121	Did you serve?
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0122	You bought your own children boats, villas, yachts, new cars, position of office, you didn't see those who killed themselves because they couldn't buy your son a pair of pants, and now you're out celebrating a children's holiday. I'm asking the authorities, how dare you?
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0013par0123	Did you serve?
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0124	Do you hear the screams of Ceylan Önkol, Rabia Naz, Uður Kaymaz, Berkin Elvan, Veysel Enterprise, Oğuz Arda Sel, Burak Ogash, their parents?
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0014par0125	Eren Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0126	Have you accounted for the children who will no longer be able to celebrate the holidays? You can't, you won't. Because the public seats are filled with loyalty to your chief. The vaults have been emptied, the public's shroud money has been spent, even the reserve bill has been vaporized, $128 billion has been vaporized, natural resources, mines, forests, streams, parcels are being sold. And another first time, some minister double-crossed his ministry to make money for his own company. Now, I ask all our citizens who are watching us on the screen: Health Minister special hospital boss, National Education Minister private school boss, Tourism Minister hotel chain boss, photo of the Minister of Interior with every criminal, Foreign Minister hosting a grifter who fled abroad, do you have a sovereign population in a country like this? I'm speaking to the ruling representatives here: Did you know that on April 23rd, they used to put the children in the seats, and your presence, your will, were the same as the child who was seated in the chair on April 23rd? Even children sometimes don't listen to advice, and when they sit on the couch, they say what they feel, and you don't do it once. That's why you're gonna go, and those kids are gonna come, but what kids? Not because he was a member of the party, but because he grew up with private lessons, had his money printed and written quickly, and when I said shut up, he went silent, and signed, and when I told him to leave, he asked for his forgiveness, and he raised his hand, and he didn't raise his hand. Smart, hardworking, determined, deserving of these children, and on that day you will pay for what you have done in judgment. Yes, it'll turn around, and the unjust trial period that you've been playing on your finger will be over. The courthouse halls will be filled with lebalep thieves, deadbeats, bribes, shameless contractors. Today, all those who condemn these people to hunger and misery shall answer to the workers, and to the young, and to the women, and to those who have slain our children. Don't let anyone think you're gonna get away with it. You know, those who were offended by the call of Vahddin, I tell you, he ran away, and you won't even escape like him. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Dear friends, the sovereignty will be your people again. For all the wealth obtained by corruption, by theft, by exploitation, by bribery, we will take back what is in the interests of the people, and give it to the people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our plundered streams, our forests, our lands, our privatized national governments will be taken back. Those who are vigilant and close an acre of land will be cancelled, and return to the people who have been stolen from the people. Everyone will understand, this country is not for sale. Every penny we save from the thieves will be used to ease the suffering of our poor people, the poor workers. Turkey's Labour Party is the party of those who defend nature, women, workers, culture, art, production and children's rights to play against those who refuse to stand up for what is right, not to tell the truth in the face of the pledges, but to stand up for what is right, because our cause is not the case of the human struggle of life, but of the cruel. As I call out to our people, dear citizens, this country, this House was not built so easily. In our history, there is a struggle against betrayal, stubbornness, will.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0015par0134	Mr. Head, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0135	I'm picking it up. The work of this country's court regime doesn't really deserve any of these shames. We can't afford to give up our kingdom one more day to the palace and his horse thief, dollar thief, human trafficker, misogynist, working enemy squads. We have a dream for the children of this country.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0016par0137	Don't insult me, don't insult me.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0017par0138	Mr. President, this kind of rudeness...
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0139	They will receive free and equal education, play in beautiful lands, in clean streams, where the forest will not be plundered, where no one will sleep hungry, and where the mothers will not struggle with poverty. He'll fly kites in green fields, children's laughter will rebuild the streets, the country.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0017par0140	It's not the naughty stand.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0018par0141	Out of your mouth...
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0143	Guys, don't shout.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0017par0144	Shameless man.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0145	The truth has a bad habit, it comes out sooner or later.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0017par0147	Dignity, dignity.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0148	I speak to our people.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0019par0150	What kind of people are you talking to? What people of yours...
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0020par0151	It's rude.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0152	Mr. President, would you care to step in? I want to finish it.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0021par0154	Mr. Chief, I didn't give anyone an extension.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0155	That's my last sentence.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0022par0156	He's being rude here.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0021par0157	Second two minutes, please complete.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0158	I'm sorry, my last sentence.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0021par0159	But he's out of his league.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0012par0160	Mr. President, what I'm asking is, if my friends are thirsty, let me finish my speech and get him.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0021par0162	Guys...
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0023par0163	This isn't an insult.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0021par0164	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0024par0165	Guys, I'm finishing up. Like I said, truth has a bad habit, it comes out sooner or later.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0025par0167	He's coming out, he's coming out.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0024par0168	As a result, horse thieves and smugglers will clash, palaces will fall, kingdoms will collapse. Brothers and sisters, the beautiful children of this land, hope, persist, fight. The beautiful sunny days will be the work of those who resist. I kiss all our children in their eyes, in their hearts. This Parliament is built against occupation and reign, and it will be destroyed by occupation and art. The House will be the People's Assembly, and we'll all celebrate true holidays together.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0026par0171	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0027par0172	You're rude!
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0028par0173	Mr. President, I'd like a moment of my time.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0029par0174	Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0028par0175	Mr. President, thank you. Today is April 23rd. Today, not three hundred and sixty-five days of criticism, if we have words about this nation's partnership, the common spirit, and the future of this nation, but today, I believe we are gathered here to represent this spirit of partnership if we have such an ideal. On the other hand, it is not possible to be the public spokesman by using slogans, insulting only capital, which our people already show and leave those with such language to their present destinies. I'd like to point that out. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0030par0180	They don't get one in a million.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0031par0181	Dear friends, it is now up to the Democratic Party's President and Afyonkarahisar MP Gültekin Uysal.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0032par0183	Mr. President, very dear MPs, my dear nation watching us on television, I salute you all. I'd like to begin by expressing my gratitude to our dear nation, who gave us the honor of addressing them, to be a member of the nation, to be a member of our great Assembly on the 101st anniversary of the opening of our Grand National Assembly on Friday, which is the symbol of greatness of a nation that has been rejected, of salvation, of sovereignty, and of all differences that have succeeded in becoming one. Dear MPs, what should the Grand National Assembly of Turkey remind us of? It's different for everyone, but surely, there must be an explanation for what's important for them, and it's very important for them to know their essence and to see the solution to the problems we're facing today. This is the assembly of the great nation. When the British are leaving Istanbul looking for ammunition, they are looking for ammunition from the Great Ataturk, but they don't know that we carry more courage and will than ammunition to Samsun, Anatolia. The spirit of the great nation, the spirit of its great leadership, is in its heart. Its size is the site of history, its history, and its size is the property of the masses. The Assembly of the Nation is the Parliament, which the nation has sent its representatives, who have been interrupted from time to time by coups and periods, and in its own name and in its favor, in order to do things for the benefit of the country. It's the highest thanks in the nation. It is not the House of Nations, it is not the House of this; it is the Assembly of the people, and it is the people. People, what's represented here is mortal. It's great, not because it has a representation that soon defied seven heifers after its establishment, which has achieved victory, but because it's been exposed many times after it's been exposed to illegal, non-democratic interventions, it's the size of it, it's the size of it again. It is great; it is great because it is a precedent for those who resist persecution in the oppressed geography, for our descendants, for our brothers and sisters. But why is it bigger? This Grand National Assembly, as the highest authority in the nation's representation point, has been dedicated to the rule of the nation to make the best decisions on behalf of the nation, so that there will be no more words, no more voices. The great title of this great Assembly is that our nation is free to make its own decisions because of the fact that it accepts no captivity, no sultan, no oppression. It means a great deal to us, noble, original, single. St. Ataturk explains this in his epiphany of openings on April 22nd with the following words: "All property and military authorities will be given full supply of the Parliament, which is the seat of the whole nation. " In short, there is no property, military or political authority above this great office. Dear lawmakers, just after its establishment, our nation has had a very short term for today: the day of the nation's reign, our beloved nation. It is the full spirit of the nation that gives us the best explanation of this day. No power has been laid upon him until now. Of course, what we experience today is temporary, and our nation will be restored to this throne. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the heart of the solution to all issues, particularly the Turkish nation's sovereignty. Our nation's will today does not reflect in a healthy way against its spirit. As long as the nation's representatives are annoyed, there is no shadow and no influence over the minds and consciences, as long as they do not correct the mechanism that makes systematic errors and representations due to structural barriers built up in the political parties and election system, our small problems will grow, our big problems will become chronic. Therefore, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must take care of its reasons, rights and duties, especially for its budget. Dear MPs, with these thoughts and with these words of charity, the day of our nation's reign celebrates the anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with great horror, giving this day to our children who have given them this day's holiday day, and today I congratulate the first President of our republic, Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0033par0190	Thank you. Now, it belongs to Mr. Mustafa Destici, the chairman of the Grand Unity Party and the Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0034par0194	Dear President, my dear lawmakers, my dear nation, first of all, I salute you with respect and conversation, congratulating you once again on your holy month of Ramazan. Today, at the same time, is blessed Friday. A hundred and a year ago, again, our Veteran Assembly opened on a Friday. Again, I pray from my Lord the Most High, that this humility may be a good thing. Again, of course, this year, as was last year, we celebrate the founding anniversary of our Turkish Grand National Assembly, our nation of Necip, and our future, under the negative circumstances of our children's National Sovereignty and Children's Day (April 23rd) as well as of the pandem that has severely affected all areas of social life in our country. On this occasion, I wish God's mercy to all of our citizens who have lost their lives from the pandemic, and to our patients an urgent cure, and once again I give thanks to our health workers. Precious lawmakers, the Veteran Parliament, which we are under the roof of, after the First World War we have lost, is the headquarters of a victory that led to the struggle of our nation with almost nothing but the will and faith of our nation, which led to the survival of our nation in an occupied country without money, unarmed, without soldiers, without supplies. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is an independent, modern, powerful state, economy and society built on the wreckage of an empire that declared the republic after its victory. In this respect, it has a very special and important position in both the history of the world and the Turkish. Our nation has always been proud of its Assembly, and because of its qualities, its expectations have always been high. It's important that we know the value of what we have, especially when we don't lose them. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the mind of the state, the conscience of the nation, the armor, the will itself. Dear lawmakers, I believe there are two great tasks and opportunities ahead of our Parliament, which is incumbent on this term. First of all, we need to build a new civil, democratic, law-based constitution. First of all, I can open this in a wider way, but you know that our time is limited. The second is that the Law on Political Parties, and the Election Law, must be democratised immediately. An important mission to our parliament should be to clear the extensions of terrorism from all levels of the state, particularly the Turkish Grand National Assembly. For all of us, this is a responsibility and obligation to our country, our nation, our history and our future. We have won the War of Salvation together, the Kurd, Turkmen, Çerkek, Laz, Bosniak, Alevi, Sunnisi, and the republic together. For him, this great great Turkish nation has never had a Kurdish problem in history. The Kurds are both our friends and brothers on the front line, our unity of history, culture, faith and target. That's the way it is for citizens of Alevi. There's a problem, yes, it's a terror problem, and our heroic security forces are rooting out terror, and hopefully our Parliament will do it soon. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the 101st year of its opening, I remember the first President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who ruled our Liberation War, who led our republic and led it to victory, and the precious members of our first Congress, who won the national struggle to continue to be a homeland for the Turkish nation of Anatolia, our commanders, our martyrs, our veterans, and our veterans, with mercy and gratitude. Let everyone know and hear and hear that Turkish history is an ancient and long history. We have the Hun, we have Gökturk, we have Uygur, we have Seljuklu, we have the Ottomans, we have the Republic of Turkey. Let everyone hear it again, and let them know that the will that won the Salvation War and founded the Republic is not those who surrendered their mind, mind, and soul to Mao, but those who had the pride and consciousness of the Turkish people, the morality and virtue of Islam. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) With the spirit of the Veteran Assembly, we must continue our journey, united and united, with no doubt that we will be able to achieve this promise in the future. My beloved nation, the kingdom belongs to God, and the kingdom belongs to the people. On behalf of the Great Unity Party and the alpers, I say that our beloved nation celebrates once again the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of April 23rd, our holiday, especially our children, our happy state.
tbmm-2021-04-23sit01spe0035par0203	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Members of parliament, the 101st anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day have been completed. The decision was made Tuesday (April 27, 2021) at 15 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with the proposals of the law. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
