tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. According to the program, we'll be interviewing in round one today. The first round includes the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Public Controllership Foundation, Constitutional Court, Court, Energy and Natural Resources Ministry, Energy Market Editing Institution, Nuclear Editor-in-Chief of Mines and Research, General Directorate of Mines and Oil, Turkey Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Foundation, National Bor Research Institute, Nadir Earth Elements Research Institute, Turkey Atomic Energy Agency, Youth and Sports Ministry budgets and final accounts. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, in the talks on the tour, at the request of the political party groups, there will be a 70-minute commitment to carry out their views under Article 62 of the Turkish Parliament and Article 62 of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes as a question, ten minutes as an answer, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the first round, I take turns reading the names of the speakers: Zonguldak MP Hamdi Uçar, Kilis MP Ahmet Salih Dal, Samsun MP Orhan Kırcalı, İzmir MP Yaşar Kırpınar, Denizli MP Şahin Tin, Gaziantep MP Mehmet Erdoğan, İstanbul MP Osman Boyraz, Düzce MP Fahri Çakır, İstanbul MP Iffet Polet Polet, Zonguldak MP Polat Türkmen, Zonguldak MP Ahmet Çolakoğlu, İstanbul MP Nevzat Shadiroğlu, İstanbul MP Rümesaş Kadak, Balıkez Paki Mümümümez. Tekirdağ MP Enez Kaplan, Mersin MP Behic Çelik, Antalya MP Feridun Bahshi, Denizli MP Yasin Özturk, Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş, Tripoli MP Hüseyin Örs. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, the members of the People's Party (PKK) have requested a statement from Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı, Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak, İstanbul MP Feti Yıldız, Antalya MP Abdurrahman President, Kovaleli MP Saffet Sandzaklı, Mersin MP Olcay Pilot. People's Democratic Party Group has requested statements from Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul, Batman MP Mehmet Rüşç Tiryaki, Şırnak MP Hasan Özgünş, Şırnak MP Nuran İmir, İstanbul MP Ali Kenanoğlu, Van MP Muazzez Orhan Iş, Şanlıurfa MP Ömer Ocalan, Diyarbakır MP Derim Dağ. MP Ahmet Tuncay Özkan, Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere, İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, İzmir MP Sevda Erdan Kılıç, Mersin MP Alpay Antmen, İstanbul MP İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu, Hatay MP Suzan Şahin, İzmir MP Ednan Arslan, İzmir MP Tacettin Bayır, Osmaniye MP Baha Güç, Bartın MP Aysu Bankoğlu, İstanbul MP Özgür Karabat, MP Mustafa Adıyılez. On behalf of the individuals, İstanbul MP Ahmet Kılıç will be speaking against İstanbul MP Mustafa Yeneroglu, who will be acting on behalf of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Deputy Speaker of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Surajya Sadi Bilgic, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Fatih Günç, Minister of Youth and Sports Mehmet Muharrem Köşoğlu. Now, the first word belongs to Mr. Hamdi Uçar, a member of the Zonguldak MP who requested a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Flyer. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0002par0061	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2022. As the first speaker of our budget talks, I salute our grand coven from this bench. I wish that our work here will be completed in peace and quiet and bring blessings to our country. As lawmakers, I believe that any positive, constructive, compromise that we do under this roof will have a positive impact on our nation. Today, I am proud and proud of being here as a Zonguldak MP, our Veteran Assembly is not just any parliament, it has led the Istiklal War. It has lit Turkey's path through its 100-year history. Our budget offer for 2022 years is 2 billion, 198,21,000 euros for Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is our pupil, as part of our understanding of the strong Parliament. 90% are current expenses, 5% are investment expenses. 68.7 per cent of our budget consists of staff costs. Dear friends, our Veterans Assembly welcomes visitors from all over our country and abroad every day. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was visited by 5,000 of our citizens on average during the days of our work on the General Assembly outside the Pandemic period, is of particular importance because it is Turkey's window. In this framework, we thank our parliamentary staff from all levels, including our Grand National Assembly President Mustafa Sentop, who has worked with sacrifice to ensure the quality, speed, efficiency and efficiency of service to lawmakers, staff and visitors. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Zonguldak, the capital of labor for many years, are now on the way to becoming the capital of energy. New investments for employment are being made at every level of our city, and steps are being taken to make our mines more active and efficient, as our shipyards are reanimated in our Eregite region, our organised industrial zones are improved, and in recent times the need for energy increases. I know a debt of gratitude to our esteemed cabinet-member ministers, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who works day and night for the peace and well-being of our city, who is always constructive and solution-oriented, and who works with good intentions. At this point, I would also like to thank our two esteemed ministers. I also want to thank Mr. Murat Kurum, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, who has guided us, helped us to address problems of our city, such as the coastal arrangement, the lava field, for years of gangrene. Again, I'd like to point out that the Mithatpaşa Tunnels and the intersection arrangement, which will relieve Zonguldak's transportation problem, will soon be in the service of our Zonguldak fellow citizens. On this occasion, I would like to thank our Minister of Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Fair Karaismailoglu. As the 100th year of our Republic approaches, I want to express my happiness on behalf of my city and country. You can't do it without getting tired, tireless, ignoring obstacles, ignoring obstacles. Remember, not every seeker can find it, but those who find it are the ones who seek it. If you seek, you will find, as long as you seek the greatest natural gas reserves in the history of the Black Sea. Now, we continue to work day and night at sea to reach 2023, where Turkey discovered 540 billion cubic metres of natural gas in the Black Sea.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0003par0069	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0002par0070	In 2023, a fevered study is being carried out at Zonguldak Filyos, where Black Sea gas will be transferred to the main line, intended for the use of our citizens. I'd like to thank the General Directorate of Turkey's Oil Anonymous, the technical team and all its employees, especially our energy minister, Fatih Dynasty, who's working on this. The fate of the region is changing, and the Port of Filyos will be Turkey's third largest port. The industrial region has been handed over to Turkey's Oil Anonymous for 2 million square metres; construction of natural gas processing refinery has begun to complete its infrastructure. The natural gas from the Black Sea will be processed here and connected to the Marmara Pipeline. We'll burn our own gas in our dwellings, and we'll use our own gas in the industry. So, as the world and our country struggle with the epidemic and its economic crisis, we move on to their 2023 targets in such strong and confident steps. As I put an end to my words, Turkey wishes that our Grand National Assembly, all of our other institutions, the budget of the year 2022, would be better, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0004par0074	Members of parliament, as you all know, there is a request for a statement according to 60 ▪ at the opening of the Parliamentary General Assembly, and then as soon as we pass the law, there is a demand for a question-answered statement in the law. I guess the guys got a little mixed up today because it was the first time. There is no demand for words, according to the right laws, so there must be a demand for words for questions and answers. My friends who've been through this mess, I think they'll be able to fix this mess by tomorrow. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 The second speaker is Mr. Ahmet Salih Dal. Here you go, Mr. Dal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0005par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to start by speaking in a few sentences, first of all, today is the 100th year of the liberation of the 7th of December Church. Due to the nature and residential geography of our Serhat city at the intersection of the Southeast and Mediterranean, it has hosted many civilizations such as Babylon, Hitit, Hurri Mitanni, Syria, Assyria, Macedonia, Rome, Byzantines, Seljulu, Memluk, Slavemen, Ottoman, and Ottoman. Gastronomy, olive oil, black grapes, peppers, for example, has once again proved to be the city of Ensar, which has contributed to the economy with its agricultural wealth, and has also begun to flourish in this area with recent industrial breakthroughs. Our heroes, Mr. Şahin, Mr. Aslan, Mr. Sakıp Bey, Mr. Islam, Mr. Eagle and Muslim Bey, in the foundation of our Gazi city, ask all of our martyrs for the mercy of the Great Rabb, all of them I thank and thank. My main city, which he spoke of in his verses, celebrates once again the liberation of my Church from the invasion of the enemy on December 7th. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Public Control Agency of the Central Management Budget Law of 2022. As a manifestation of our country's efforts to democratize, right-seeking pathways have been diversified and institutional structures that the citizen can easily access. Without a doubt, it serves our citizens as an effective right-seeking mechanism since Law No. 6328 of 14/06/2012 and the Society for Public Control. In 2012, a total of 188,245 complaints were filed to the institution that began its work in 2013, and the compatibility rate of 20 per cent in 2013 was set at 80 per cent at the end of 2021. This is a clear statement of the right decision to establish the Public Control Agency. It can only be possible for the nation to take over the state with the strong ties it has established between its government and its own. The Public Control Agency is the most important institution to strengthen those bonds. We see the Society of Public Control as a symbol of the efforts of the historic reforms carried out by the AK PARTI authorities to strengthen democracy, to expand rights and freedoms. In social life, diversity is fundamental. We live with people of different religion, faith, race, ideology, worldview. It's not a choice or a matter of good or bad, it's a sociological reality. The method of diversity that dominates social life is at the top of the ancient and complicated problems of political and constitutional theory. The most important goal of the democratic legal state, based on human rights, is to bring differences together. The precondition for this is to be able to communicate with people, communities, and others who don't think like we do, who don't believe like we do, who don't speak the same language. Clearly, the Western world suffers from these social and political diseases, especially today. It is the greatest threat to values such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and to political systems, which do not allow the other to live. In short, alien hostility, racism and Islamophobia are the dark and dark side of our age.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0006par0134	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0005par0135	Fighting such outdated dark crimes, of course, is the work of the courts within the framework of these laws, but at this very moment, it is also one of the main duties of the Public Control Agency, which has been established to study, investigate, and make recommendations in the sense of human rights-based justice. Despite all the negativity in the world -- despite all the negatives of the United Nations and international institutions -- which are blind and deaf -- are unfortunately left in class, the United Nations and other international institutions, who have soon been very successful -- have gathered all the ombudsmans of the world under a global roof, especially Islamophobia, foreign hostility and refugees, and have developed solutions on their agenda, as well as have remained in the classrooms of the United Nations and so-called international institutions have failed to protect the rights of the oppressed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget would be a blessing. I salute our High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0007par0141	Samsun MP Orhan Kırcalı. Here you go, Mr. Whip.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0008par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my EC PARTY Group on the Constitutional Court budget of the Central Management Budget Act of 2022. I salute my lawmakers, our Veterans Assembly, my dear fellow citizens who are watching us on the screens. As members of a civilization that put justice in the center of the state, justice is the foundation of justice. We believe that security, peace and economic growth will be possible by establishing justice. When our party was formed in 2001, we adopted the ideal of justice and development. The concepts of justice and movement have always been a guide to show us which way to go. At this very moment, our EC PARTY governments have taken very serious steps in the area of democratisation in Turkey and continue to take. Serious reforms and structural changes have been implemented on the basis of basic rights and freedoms and the legal state. We will continue our reforms to ensure that justice works through all institutions and rules in the coming years. Dear lawmakers, constitutional courts serve under different names in many countries around the world. The Constitutional Court, one of the most important and fundamental institutions of the Turkish legal system, has entered our legal system through the 1961 Constitution. The Constitutional Court also performs an important task in our country to protect the rule of law and the values of the state of law. The Constitutional Court, which guarantees the best and most fair implementation of fundamental rights and freedoms in our country, is the highest judicial body of vital importance in the preservation and strengthening of Turkey's democratic state of law. Dear lawmakers, the Constitutional Court's mandate, which has been overseeing the Constitutional Court's compliance with the laws since its establishment, has gradually shown enlargement. During the period from its establishment until 2012, the Constitutional Court was primarily acting as a high judicial body overseeing the constitutionality of the laws. Starting in 2012, a new era began in the Turkish constitutional judiciary. The 2010 Constitutional Amendment, the structure of the Constitutional Court and the number of members, has also changed the path of individual application into our legal system. Thus, the Constitutional Court's mandate has expanded to include the individual application. The individual application is an important reform and win in the rules of our President and the will of our nation in our legal system. An individual application is the ultimate and most effective national rights search for a direct source from the Constitution to protect basic rights and freedoms. From September 23, 2012, to the first quarter of 2021, the total number of individual applications reached 308,672. The Constitutional Court has ruled on about 86 per cent of these applications. 89% of the total 265,300 cases committed to the verdict have been rejected. In the 12.318 cases that were originally examined, 4.6 per cent of the administrative rejection decision was issued, 5.4 per cent of the right violation. Given the application rates, the rate of rights violations will also be extremely low. In addition to implementing individual application, the Ministry of Justice has established the chairmanship of the Human Rights Compensation Commission. The application to the European Court of Human Rights, which the European Court of Human Rights adopted as an internal legal road, has decreased; our country has gained credit in international law enforcement. One of the key elements of the new system, which is adopted by the 2017 Constitutional Amendment, is the presidential decrees. The Constitutional Court is in charge of constitutional control of presidential decrees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0009par0152	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0008par0153	Thus, the Constitutional Court's mandate has expanded to include the judicial control of the presidential decrees, which are the first-hand regulatory process of enforcing the legislation. Dear lawmakers, the offer of 2022 budgets for the Constitutional Court is 107,633,000 Turkish liras. I hereby ask all members of the Constitutional Court to make it easy for them to work; I wish that the Central Management Budget Law of 2022 would bring blessings to the Constitutional Court, to our country, to our nation. Again, I salute you and my beloved nation with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0010par0157	Mr. Yasar Kharpınar, MP of İzmir... Here you go, Mr. Centipede.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0011par0160	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY group on the budget of our Court of Justice for 2022. I salute and cherish our beloved citizens and our valued deputies, who follow us on their screens. In the preparation of this budget, both in the commission stage and in the steps leading up to it, I express my deepest gratitude. And in the meantime, I'd like to express my thanks in advance, in advance, for the positive contributions. This budget is the budget of our women, of our young, of our elders. This budget is the budget of our farmer, our industrialist, our officer and our worker. This budget is actually a budget that predates investment, employment, production, exports and growth. In fact, this budget is the budget of 84 million. Dear friends, the Court is an institution with a truly historical background. With the formation of our Republic, we have a court within the state structure, particularly in 1924, 1961 and 1982. The Court has always been one of Turkey's most popular and important institutions, and our Court's duty is already framed in the Constitution. Again, since the Constitution of 1876, the Court has continued its status as a constitutional institution. The characterization of the Court as an account court also points to judicial authority. Those responsible for the final provisions issued by the Court are unable to resort to any other administrative judiciary, which is a certainty. In addition, the Court continues to produce independent, impartial, reliable, and accurate services as a higher judiciary and control institution. It also continues to oversee public administrations' income, expenses and property within the framework of legislation and to report to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In addition, by overseeing whether public resources are being spent in accordance with the legislation, the account and transactions of those responsible are firmly decided and are working within the tenacity and determination of the task and responsibility given to them. It is also aimed at the development of public administrations and the development of financial transparency, and aims to serve to further improve public administration. The Court is an institution tasked with overseeing the account and transactions of the responsible on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, overseeing the account and transactions of the local authorities, and enforcing final provisions of the audit, auditing and binding of the laws, and giving final accounts and general appropriations of the appropriateness of the public enterprises. In this framework, the Court performs its most effective task by monitoring the world's developments, with a sense of continuous development of its duties, authority and responsibilities, given by the Constitution and laws. He plans and conducts his audits on behalf of the Supreme Assembly in an honest, non-judgmental way, in accordance with international control standards. He aims to contribute to the transparency and accountability of public administration. In our audits, we have an institution that uses information technologies to the maximum. With the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the public, the expectations and needs of supervised institutions and organisations are also taken into account in the ongoing development of control and reporting capacity. In addition, strategic planning is also considered in accordance with the objectives envisioned in the development plans of public administrations, and is trying to contribute to the proper functioning of the control environment and public administration within the strategic management understanding of annual performance programmes and operational reports.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0012par0166	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0011par0167	Yes, we have many prestigious institutions, such as the esteemed MPs, the Court and the Court. Unfortunately, we've been seeing some activities recently to discredit them. I would like to point out once again that these are the institutions that need to be protected and respected, which are of no use to anyone, especially our institutions. I wish to bless and honor our ministers, whose budget we are discussing today, and the institutions and institutions that serve our country in particular, the budgets of our Court, the branches that serve in the most remote corner, to be blessed and fruitful.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0012par0170	Congressman Sahin Tin... Here you go, Mr. Tin.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0013par0173	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the EC PARTY Group on the budget of our Department of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute your high council and our beloved citizens. As Turkey, we are moving forward with a reliable strategy for sustainable and green development in the field of energy and, of course, resources. As in every field, in the field of energy and of course, we have passed the age of our country and achieved historic and epic achievements. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have set targets and are working in this direction to ensure that Turkey gains energy independence from renewable energy to mining, nuclear to domestic coal. The aerial geophysical research project has been implemented; the Fatih has done its first drilling in the Eastern Mediterranean; we are working hard to meet the natural gas supply of all our cities and counties. We've removed the unlicensed power limit from 1 megawatt to 5 megawatts, activated mobile power plants, prepared projects for the expansion of natural gas storage facilities to respond to high demand; the highest domestic oil production of the last 20 years has been carried out by Turkish Oil. Dear lawmakers, the TAP section of TANAP, which was based in 2015, was completed as an important link to European energy security. Gas flow through the line has been provided to Europe, as well as the Turkish Media Project has been implemented, and the first shipment of gas to Europe has begun since 1 October 2021. Projects on the production of electricity in our dams don't slow down. Hydroelectric plants, solar power plants and wind power plants are being built; we're producing clean energy. The Conqueror, Yavuz, the Law and our fourth drilling ship, Barbaros and Oruç Reis, our seismic research ships have successfully carried out their duties in the blue country. We discovered 540 billion cubic metres of natural gas reserves in the Black Sea. Starting in 2023, we aim to meet one third of our citizens' demand for natural gas from this reserve. We've put a great deal of emphasis on renewable energy sources. In just nine months of 2021, about 37 per cent of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, along with 31 per cent from coal, 32 per cent from natural gas and other sources. The share of domestic and renewable resources in production is 52 percent. Our country is the eighth in the world with the power of hydroelectric energy and the third in Europe; it is the fourth in the world in geothermal energy; it is the first in Europe; it is the seventh in Europe with wind power; it is the 13th in the world; it is the eighth in Europe with the power of solar power; it is the sixth in the world. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY government has put aside stability in the field of energy and, of course, resources and entered into a study that has broken the memorisations. We've moved the local and renewable resource ratio to very high levels. We're increasing the power of the board every year. We've broken the record of republican history in domestic coal production. We've made a discovery in Thrace that doubles the production of local natural gas. We've made Turkey a central country in energy technologies. We care deeply about RD and innovation. We support our investors. We're clearing the way for domestic production. We encourage our investors in renewable energy and in many other domestic technologies. We are determined to clear Turkey's path by resolving issues that will be in the way of our country. We've always tried to use our local resources. Our advanced technology and our vast workforce have the wisdom, the fear, the determination, and the determination to do better. We are determined to keep our values strong, to build Turkey, which grows with richer and more independent, domestic and national possibilities, and to give it the best of all to future generations.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0014par0179	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0013par0180	With the interests of our country and our nation, we work and work day and night in the event of our national values. On this occasion, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, I would like to express our gratitude to our ministers and our nation for their support, especially during the time of our governments. By maintaining our unity under the umbrella of the mighty Turkey, we will overcome every challenge and achieve every goal. I wish the budget to be a blessing, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0014par0183	Mr. Mehmet Erdogan of Gaziantep. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0015par0186	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Energy and Natural Resources Ministry budget of the Central Budget Law of 2022. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. Dear friends, it's December. December is an important month for our Gaziantep, and for our country. Yes, on December 25th, we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Gaziantep's liberation from the French occupation. On December 25th, we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Gaziantep's liberation from the French occupation. Of course, when our Gaziantep was invaded, can you imagine, there was only two-thirds of the population of nearly 20,000 people left, and the rest were all killed by heavy bombs thrown by the French. And as we come to this day, Gaziantep has become a city this year that captures $10 billion in exports, and now, in the city -- when we're finished -- we're going to open up the 6th organised industry. Opening up the 6th organized industry... Next to us, a new organised industry is being established in a area of 27 million square metres. What does that mean? Energy. That's what happens if we generate energy, if you can't generate energy, if you can't produce renewable energy, you'll continue to be dependent on the outside. Today, our country has taken great distances, especially in renewable energy sources. However, as we all know, 540 billion cubic metres of natural gas in the Black Sea will reduce both our energy and our dependence on the outside. Again, like this, in this year's year, in 2021, 26 new sources of energy have been found on land and 60 million barrels of energy will be reached. Dear friends, of course, in both electric energy and wind energy, both in and in the Aegean, we are truly among the countries of the world in which geothermal energy continues to produce in a very large way and is constantly increased. In many, we are the 1st in Europe, and in many, we have reached comparable renewable energy to the eight countries of Europe. (Applause from the EC PARTY) The European Parliament raised this issue, energy sources in the Balkans and Turkey, and especially Akkuyu energy. Now, in Brussels -- the centre of the city, the capital of NATO, the capital of the European Parliament -- there's nuclear energy in the middle of the city, but you see that Turkey opposes the Akkuyu Power Plant, which will only cover 5 per cent of our one-year energy. Then why did you do it? When we asked you, sir, we made that mistake once, so don't you do it. Okay, let's make that mistake once, and we'll do it once. Let it taste its subtleties, its depth in our country, because once we don't diversify energy, our addiction will always increase, and that's a matter of national security. Energy is a matter of national security. If we as Turkey are growing five percent each year...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0016par0193	Do you make mistakes once for nuclear?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0015par0194	You don't understand because you're not national!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0016par0195	It's nuclear!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0017par0196	We've seen your nationality, everything keeps going down.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0015par0197	Turkey has to produce 5 per cent new energy each year as it grows 5 per cent. He will fulfill this obligation with all kinds of resources, and he will continue to do so. (AK PARTY) As the AK PARTY authorities... look, since the day it was founded, since it came to power, Turkey has jumped the age of energy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0017par0198	The Middle Ages...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0018par0199	You've been siphoning energy companies.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0015par0200	Not us anymore, but everyone else appreciates it, accepts it. You have to have common sense, you have to support it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0019par0201	You have to be left-wing, left-sounding.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0015par0202	Turkey continues to be a superpower, whether you want it or not, in energy as well as in other events, and no one will be able to prevent it. All the work is done, our country's development is focused on the well-being of our people, and it's been done as a government.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0020par0203	It's obvious, it's obvious, everyone's blown up in prosperity.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0015par0205	I congratulate our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, its employees, and the Parliament that supports them, and I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0021par0207	This is Mr. Osman Boyraz of Istanbul. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0022par0210	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screen. This budget we are discussing is the 20th budget prepared by the EC PARTY governments to bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to God, the Lord. And I thank from my heart all those who make the night and the day of its preparation, and make the effort, and the sweat of it, and the sincerity of it, and all those who make the effort of it for our nation. Today, energy is vital to the country's economies as a result of rapid industrialisation. Population growth, new technologies, urbanization, trade opportunities developed by globalization lead to increased demand for natural resources, especially energy. As it is known, energy production and energy consumption data are among the most important indicators in the interpretation of both the country's development indicator and its economic situation. In particular, it is vital that the growing industrial investments in our country over the past 20 years provide for the energy needs needed by Turkey's economy and diversify resources while the energy needs are met. The countries aim to produce cheap, clean, renewable and reliable energy. At the same time, there are ways to reduce external dependency in energy, and resources are diversified. In addition to policies and international agreements, economic development in the period of the EC PARTI has increased rapidly, the energy need has also increased similarly, and in the background of this energy-use growth has been fought to increase the power established in our country in addition to the regular, quality, sustainable supply of energy. Highly valued lawmakers are also important for the energy pen to maintain stability, so that we do not be affected by the fluctuations in the monetary markets. In fact, when you look at how important energy is in the world, especially in the global sense, when you look at scale, where there's a conflict, wherever there's trouble, wherever there's a fight, there's a preemptive project. In 1936, the British House of Commons had an expression of Churchill, which said: ▪ A drop of oil is worth more than a drop of blood. Actually, our civilization doesn't have that approach. Our civilization, as Mr. President has expressed on every platform, is greater than the world. We are actually representatives of a civilization, an understanding that struggles with the fair division of all the resources on earth by all the people on earth. So in order to access all the resources on earth, especially to reduce our country's dependence on the outside, we do all the work we can. While I'm doing these studies, I'd like to express in particular that the AK PARTI staff, especially our Minister and his team, are in love with the nation and have a hard time with the nation. And I know that no understanding that doesn't have a problem is going to do this country any good. As the Azerbaijan proverb states, the non - suffering person is a burden to the world. Our concern is to expand the bread, the work of the people of this country, and to increase their well - being. At this point, energy investments are being conducted in incredible ways. I also know that if I could just explain these studies of energy here, in this short period of time, all the words in my mind would be inadequate, that time would never be enough. Our services are obvious. Let me just say this: we're talking about an electric energy produced from 120 billion kilowatts/hours to 350 billion kilowatts per hour, and we believe that especially the proven natural gas and oil reserves are right next to us -- in the Middle East, in the Caspian, and in the consumer countries just west -- are also showing Turkey's geopolitical and geostrategic importance. Here, at this point, dozens of oil transport pipelines were made from TANAP (TANAP) to Turkakim. PUTIN, Russian President Putin, said that TANAP and Turkakim were a huge project, in particular at the opening: Without a strong leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey would not have happened. (Applause from the AK PARTY) Here, we continue to increase the prosperity of our nation with these projects.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0023par0216	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0022par0217	And finally, I want to say that there's a rule in physics that no object stops, no object that doesn't move, doesn't generate energy. We, too, are conscious of it. Let's not stop. Let's move on. May our energy be constant, I entrust you all to God.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0023par0219	Mr. Honorary Cakir. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0024par0222	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised a budget for the energy market regulatory agency (EPDK). I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation who are watching us on the screen. Of course, when you say EPDK, you think of all the layers, all the levels of the energy market. One of our distinguished institutions, established by law in 2001, operates under the Ministry of Energy, but in India, offers a large and highly enjoyable, successful service. I'd especially like to thank the EPDK president and his administration, the Department of Energy. Dear friends, of course, we're a country addicted to energy. Energy is important, nothing happens without energy. Energy needs to be efficient, it needs to be environmentally friendly, energy needs to be economical, it needs to have a sustainable policy. Therefore, the energy policies of the new Turkey are particularly focused on renewable energy sources, and we have increased the energy that we produce here to about 50 percent of the capacity, but none of this is enough, so we need to continue. Dear friends, the EPDK is an institution that controls the production, distribution, transport, use of all this energy, and all the layers of a verb, from the smallest to the largest, are involved and overseeing it. Therefore, I sincerely believe that such an institution contributes greatly to the energy field in particular. And friends, of course, in our world, especially where energy is the topic, there are so many things to put under energy, because when you say energy, almost two steps back, people almost slaughter each other for energy corridors, energy resources, and energy. The cause of wars is the ambition and anger of having energy. The imperial forces are always taking advantage of them every once in a while, especially to the oppressed and innocent geography -- and I'm saying underline -- especially to the Islamic geography -- as they've been exploiting those lands for years and centuries, I'm afraid they still have the desire to exploit them. So as we talk about such an important topic, we need to address all strategic issues of energy. That's what the budget is talking about, that's what the budget we're talking about promises the future of energy and the future of the country. We're talking here, especially about the future of 84 million citizens, but there are people who call this budget the war budget, and there are people who call it the gun budget, there are people who call it the budget. So, specifically, this budget is not a war budget. If spending money on the defense industry is a waste of money, then why bother, you have to answer. Our speakers mentioned it here yesterday. Thus, the development of the country is directly, directly related to the country's access to the relative level of civilization, without question, to energy sources and not compromise energy sources. For this reason, our country is also responsible for the Indian, the geography, the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus, the vast geography, not only for the actual and physical geography, but also for the heart geography. Syria seeks and prays for this budget, from this budget, from this budget, from this budget, from Africa, from this budget, from East Turkistan, from Caucasus, from the Balkans. Thus, this budget is not a budget to be ignored and opposed. There are those who object, no doubt, and there are those who have their backs on the PKK who are uncomfortable with this budget, and those who have their backs on the PKK will be uncomfortable with that budget. Look, look, look. Those who receive instructions from Imralı, the founder of the PKK, which has been troubling this country for 40 years, are also disturbed by this budget.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0025par0229	Look, you're talking nonsense. You just moved it there. You're talking nonsense...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0026par0230	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0024par0231	At the point of receiving instructions from the head of sluggy Å in Pennsylvania, the trackers will also be uncomfortable with the budget, although they are uncomfortable with it, and we will continue. Prayers from the heart's geography, prayers from East Turkistan, from Ötuken, Buhara, Samarkant, we'll be on our way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council once again. May our budget prosper.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0027par0236	There's no prayer to save you, just so you know.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0028par0237	From East Turkistan, prayer doesn't come to you from there, you've been watched by persecution.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0029par0238	Mr. President, he has accused those who are disturbed by this budget of terrorism and other things. I'm uncomfortable with this budget, so I'd like a say in two minutes of bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0030par0239	Mr. Clumsy, we don't have that kind of procedure, we're moving on.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0029par0240	Mr. President, Mr. President, I'm uncomfortable.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0030par0241	Mr. Iffet Polat, MP of Istanbul... Here you go, Mr. Polat.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0031par0244	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget for the Central Management Budget Law of 20222. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation on the screen. Dear lawmakers, today we are negotiating on its budget, the nuclear regulatory institution has an important field of activity for our country's breakthroughs in the field of nuclear energy. Our institution, which has taken on a lot of responsibility from the license of nuclear power plants to the extent that these facilities are being inspected and controlled, may be one of the most vital mechanisms of our nuclear energy move. I wish our organization the best of luck with his valuable work in 2022. I wish our country's journey of nuclear energy to the best of all our friends, who are happy with Turkey's success, especially our nation. One of Turkey's largest import pens is energy. With industrialisation and production growing, Turkey's need for energy is also growing. Despite all alternative energy investments, a growth based on permanent and sustainable production clearly needs more energy. Almost all the industrialized countries of the world tried to meet their energy needs by building nuclear power plants in the 1950s. In these years, Turkey also showed the will to invest in nuclear, the late Prime Minister Adnan Menderes signed an Atomic Energy Co-operation Agreement with the United States in 1955 and took the initiative in nuclear energy. In 1959, arrangements were made for the production of isotopes and the construction of a nuclear site near the Sakarya River, the Yellowyer Dam. Prime Minister Menderes, four months after giving a talk with NATO countries highlighting the necessity for nuclear energy, was taken down by the May 27 coup, and Turkey's investments in nuclear energy were also recognised. This lasted until the vision of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the foundation of Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant were laid by the work of Minister of Energy Berat Jarrak. Hopefully, in 2023, the first reactor unit of Akkuyu will be finished and will be taken to an important stage. The other 3 units are scheduled to be operational by 2026. After the Coronavirus outbreak, the world is experiencing a serious energy crisis. The energy needs of economies like America, China are increasing, but the supply is diminishing. The price of natural gas in Europe has increased by 250 per cent and 100 per cent in the United States; the price of oil has doubled in one year. This picture points to a serious energy crisis in the world in the coming century along with epidemics and climate change and political uncertainty. All these developments have led countries towards nuclear power plants, for example, France has announced that it will resume its nuclear investments. Today, 443 nuclear plants are operating in 32 countries around the world, and 51 nuclear power plants are being built in 19 countries. We have the power of 4.880 megawatts that Akkuyu Operator produces when it operates, which alone can provide Ankara and Izmir (Izmir) with 10 per cent of Turkey's energy needs. According to the Paris Climate Agreement, alternative renewable energy technologies and nuclear energy options are prominent in producing energy sources because carbon emissions are intended to be reduced to zero by 2050. Just as we insist on our country and our nation in the field of nuclear power, and today, as our rights are confirmed by everyone, we are not short-term on economics, we are not after saving the day, we are not after the periodic relief. As our president said, we fight politically risky and for the country, for the good of the nation. In this environment, it will not benefit our future, believe me, to condemn the manufacturer to high interest in order to keep the job dry, to create and export a global opportunity, instead of improving in all areas and attaining prosperity. Turkey, once again, chose what was hard, but what was best for our nation in the long run.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0032par0250	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0031par0251	We believe that these short-term fluctuations will, hopefully, give way to permanent gains. We'll be there for our nation's troubles in this process, and hopefully, we'll get stronger and stronger together. With these feelings, I end my words, and I wish our budget of 2022 to be blessed and fortunate. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0033par0255	Mr. Polat Turkmen of Zonguldak... Here you go, Mr. Turkmen.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0034par0258	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the budget budgetary budget proposal for 2022 Central Management Law, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Mine Research and Research Directorate. I salute you all. In our country, our General Directorate and Ministry continue their work intensively to ensure the full extent of its potential for mining, energy, raw materials, resources. About 11 and a half million metres of drilling since 1935 took place when we were 8 million meters in power. About 5 million of these have occurred in the last five years. That means we drill about a million meters a year. Dear friends, as we know, our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is doing very serious work within the framework of national energy and mining policy. As part of the seismic research activities conducted with our native and national research vessel, Oruç Reis (or,,,,,,,,) from the beginning of the year, in the Mediterranean Bay of Antalya, he delivered these data to the General Directorate of the Anonym Association of Turkish Oil to collect and assess 3D seismic data within 4,000 square kilometers of the Gulf of Antalya. Dear friends, Turkey's Earth Sciences Data and Karot Information Bank, which is TIVEK, is capable of competing with the world's most advanced systems with its capacity, technology and staff structure. THE most important features are domestic and national, e-state-integrated online software, square code tagging, addressing system analysis and photography technology. The TIVEK, the memory of our mining, is increasing its current capacity by renewing its work day after day. As a result of all the studies, the test capacity for analysis of 60,000 a year has increased to over 600,000. In the changing world conditions, our ministry and the General Directorate have not only been able to produce information within the country's borders, but also co-operated with other countries, setting up three companies for mining work and moving them abroad. As a key instrument of local coal and energy supply security, in our country, lignite coal and stone coal have been added to about 12 billion tons, up to 22.5 billion tons. Dear friends, our country is in the process of meeting its potential for mining and energy raw materials. Our Department of Mine Study and Search continues to work in this direction and is successful. With these applications, energy -- as our other friends say -- continues to develop, in the most efficient way, to use industry and technology at the highest level. Our Energy Ministry has been using all the technology in the world in recent years. From the nuclear plant, from the wind energy, from the hydraulic energy, from the HES, from the geothermal, from the solar power, it uses the highest technology in all these areas of energy. On this occasion, both our Zonguldak and our country will make us proud and proud, natural gas sources have emerged in the Sakarya region, and I hope to return to our Filios region in 2023, and therefore our Zonguldak will make the greatest use of these developments. We thank each and every member of the cabinet, especially today's Energy Minister Fatih Bey, to all our energy ministers and staffs who have come through here. In this effort, we hope that his work will continue to compete with the world, and therefore to our energy base, Zonguldak, I hope that these developments will be good. I salute you all, the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0035par0266	İstanbul MP Nevzat Şatoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Şatıroğlu.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0036par0269	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of 2022 for Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency, which is part of our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I hereby salute our High Council and our precious citizens who are watching the screens. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are the Turkish Atomic Energy Institute, the National Bor Research Institute and the Rare Earth Elements Research Institute, which is the three research and development institutions within the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources with presidential decree No. 28 March 2020; the AR-GE and innovation activities in the field of energy, nuclear and, of course, are established under one roof, using the scientific and technological infrastructure of our institutions as a partnership. The institution's purpose is to provide for our country's industrial needs in the fields of energy, minerals, ionizing radiation and nuclear technology, to properly identify and meet technological needs in these areas, to reduce our country's dependence on energy and accelerate its development and become economic power. It includes five research institutes; the Bor Research Institute, the National Topak Elements Research Institute, the Institute for Energy Research, the Institute for Nuclear Energy Research, the Institute for Clean Energy Research, as well as five institutions for technology transfer offices, co-ordinatories, educational centres and information centers. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, RD is one of the most important activities needed for innovation. In particular, the fact that more than 74 per cent of the world's boron reserve is in our country and that the pipe has more than 250 ▪ uses makes RD much more important. In this context, recently, the AR-GE infrastructure of TENSAK BOREN has been developed and seven labs have been established within the institute. In this framework, projects are being conducted in collaboration with universities, public research institutions and private sectors, which aim to produce economic value based on information and technology from a major national resource, and ultimately provide sustainable innovations for the boron. The pipe has many known effects, such as persevering, heat insulation, flame retardant, smoke suppressant, antimicrobial agent, superconductor, cancer preventer, solid lubricant, radiation and defence armor, energy carrier, storeer, plant feeder and cleaner. A lot of research has been done on the boron, which is described as chemical, material, agriculture, construction, nuclear energy, defence industry, cleaning, healthcare sectors, and has been described as the salt of the industry, and many chemical compounds have been developed. FROM 2004, TENMAK BOREN completed 342 projects for the development of boron products and technology and the spread of use spaces, continuing the work of 36 projects. 28 patent certificates have been issued, and 20 inventions are about to receive patents. 16 test products have also been commercialized and produced. Some of our products that have become commercialized under the Bor-Ge-Ge, are made of zinc bora, zinc fertilizer, boron carbide armor -- used in the defense industry -- we can make it like borlia fashion fibers, high purity elemental boron, non-flammable tent cloth, boronal antibacterial liquid hand disinfectant, aluminum borium, boron, boron diet supplements. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have provided $1 billion in exports to our country by processing 2.5 million tonnes of boron in 2021 alone. This pride belongs to all of us, this pride belongs to Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0037par0276	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0036par0277	I'd like to thank all our energy ministers and all our corporate executives, including our top energy minister, Mr. Conqueror, who's been working for us. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made significant distances in the national energy policies of Turkey, led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. We have complete faith that TENMAK will build projects that will reduce our country's energy dependence on the outside by proving to us how useful it is in a short period of time. I hereby wish our budget of 2022 would bring blessings to our country, our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0038par0281	Mr. Rumemasa Kadak, Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kadak.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0039par0284	Mr. President, I have made a promise today on behalf of my group on behalf of our precious General Assembly, the Central Management Budget Law of our Ministry of Youth and Sports, 2022. I salute the General Assembly. I, frankly today, wanted to speak not as a member of the Court, but as just one of the millions of young people, who learned to dream through youth centers, who completed their education through scholarships from the Ministry of Youth and Sports during college. Because I know that the work of our Ministry of Youth and Sports changes the lives of millions of young people. For example, a friend of ours who's having trouble expressing himself because it's stuttering learned to express himself much better after his youth centers, and he's a very good, very successful school principal right now; our youth centers have changed this friend's life. Again, a friend of ours at the youth centers directed to Taekwondo became the third, where he was accepted to the sports academy because he was third in Turkey and is now a very successful Taekwondo instructor following his success here. This friend of ours and our Oznur teacher's life has changed because of our youth centers. Again, in our wrestling centers, the life of Birgül Simsek, a Balkan champion in wrestling major, has changed because of our youth centers. The Experimental Workshops there have helped many of our young friends to make their dreams come true, change their lives. Of course, sometimes we're not surprised by these stories because we know that there are so many stories, because we have a dream of youth, a problem of youth. For example, we imagine a country where young people can easily access their own abilities, facilitate access to those areas, and the only reason our friends in the east don't learn coding, robotics is because they don't want to, young people aren't afraid to dream, they're growing dreams, they're making them come true, and each of our friends can benefit equally from the activities of sports, culture, art, they're at equal distance. And we'll continue to work for every young person without any distinction, but without it, and I wanted to rephrase that from here. (EC PARTY) Of course, as people who say we work for young people, I think it's also important that we state that we know the problems of young people. If we're working for young people, we need to know their expectations. He's got a project, a study that I'm very excited about in this direction, and I want to talk about it, our Ministry of Youth. Young people's butt. Gsb. Gov. They are able to prioritize the budget's titles from their address. For example, this year young people decided whether to go to the existing dormitories or to build new dorms. In this respect, I thank our Ministry of Youth and Sports for allowing young people to shape their budget by young people, to prioritize it by young people. I think it's very valuable work. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, I have to point out that it's really hard to talk about the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for five minutes, because our ministry of Youth and Sports is not just about dorms, youth centers, just loans; our Ministry of Youth and Sports inspires young people, teaches young people to dream, and at the point when they make their dreams come true, they're with them. Our Ministry of Youth and Sports is working to answer all the needs of young people in the field of youth and sports. There's a lot of work in that direction. Youth centers, Youth Offices, youth camps, culture and art races, coaching training, Sports Talent Scan, Turkey's Olympic Prep Centers, so that's just a few of them. We can talk about each and every one of them for hours. In all these centers, the productive, curious, learning-loving Turkish youth will continue to produce, work, learn. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The guarantee of that is that our budget is actually here today. Last year, exactly a year ago, we know from here that many of our youth centers will receive awards. Today, I am very proud and excited to share with you three teams of our youth centers, one team, two team, and one team of ours three. This is a really important moment for me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0040par0292	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0039par0293	Finally, I want to thank all those who have allowed young people to grow their dreams, to believe in us, to trust us, to give us responsibility, to create new inventions. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] May our budget be a blessing, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0040par0297	Yes, our young and female friend is the one who received the most applause of the day. In turn, Mr. Ahmet Çolakoğlu of Zonguldak. Here you go, Mr. Çolakoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0041par0301	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Federal Bureau of Mines and Oil in 2022. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. The General Directorate of Mines and Petroleum Affairs, which aims to seek, operate, develop, produce, and use our country's resources in accordance with national interests, under the rule and savings of our country, works for this purpose from the day it was founded. One of the main tasks of the MEPEG is to search, operate the mines, organise licenses and permits. In the current case, there are 5,230 mining licenses totalling 15,141, including 9.91 business licenses. A permit for operating is issued from business licenses to 7.541. However, giving a mining permit does not mean mining operations can be done in that area. It is possible that operating activities can be carried out under Article 7 of Mining Law 3213, provided that property, CED, GSM, and other necessary permits are adopted. It is not possible to start mining activities without a business permit. Another task of the MEPEG is to check the location of the mining licenses. In 2020, 5,523 mining sites were inspected, and from 2021 to today, the number reached 7.380. These audits were carefully carried out by the MEPEG teams during the Covid-19 outbreak. In the early 2020 months of the outbreak of Covid-19, production in the minefields was continued as a result of measures taken by our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. There has been no setback in bringing our underground resources into the economy. In terms of exports, our mines also have a rising graph. Our goal is to take export numbers above import numbers and eliminate the current negative effects of mining imports. Congressmans, in order to reduce this current deficit we're talking about and remove our mines from a position that exports only raw materials, our mines are being enriched in our country. For this purpose, national energy and mining policy are the leading focus on the most focused issues. By developing technologies that can run the mines, it is calculated that the high added value of our mines will be transformed into production, and studies continue. In order to achieve these goals, the facility for utilisation of extreme products has been under way since 2019. The tender process was completed in 2019 in 3, 2020, 11 in 2021, 11 in 15 tenders. In our country, we have one copper islabe for the extreme product, one aluminum islabe, one iron palette plant, and, however, a lead-chicko islabe facility, which our President recently opened. Congressmans, I'd like to share with you that all mining activities in our country are carried out first with the human and environmental and then the mining password. Participated publications have become a subject of abuse by framing the entire sector. With environmental awareness, the mining industry has signed many fine examples of rehabilitation. One of the best examples is that olive gardens have been created in the old coal field in Aydın Province, and olive oil is being produced today. As guarantees for rehab of the minefields and production activity in a mining site continue, legislation that includes rehabilitating areas that run out of reserves is also rapidly under way. In this regard, our ministries and general administrations continue to implement the environment without compromise. Congressmans, remember that mining is crucial to the development and development of our country. The raw material he provides to other sectors is an area of mining support, given the employment he has created. Therefore, this must be a basis for us to approach more fluid and more accurate information in the interest of the country.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0042par0307	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0041par0308	I'm completing it, Mr. President. As I end my speech here, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has given all the support for the mining sector to reach today's level, I have a debt of gratitude to our Minister of Energy and Resources Mr. Fatih Günzez, a valued manager and employee of the MEPEG. In that case, I wish the 2022 budget to the best. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0043par0312	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final speaker is Balıkesir MP Mr. Pakize Happy Aydemir. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0044par0315	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I hereby salute the Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. I am very pleased to point out that as a female MP serving under the Veteran Assembly, we are very proud of the development of the 108 athletes representing our country in the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. This turnout shows us how much the woman's number has increased in sports, as in every aspect of life, under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The best example of this is that we lived in the Tokyo Olympics, and praise be to God, our women wrote history in Tokyo, and signed many principles. Our total women's athletes won the medal before these Olympics were only five, while only five of our women won the medals at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, while five of our female athletes got close to the medal. Mr. President, like all of our athletes representing our flag, our fellow citizen, Jasmine Adar, my brother, is entering history as our first female wrestler to win a bronze medal in wrestling; Busenaz Sürmeneli and Buse Naz Çakıroğlu not only rose to the finals for the first time, Sürmeneli raised our chests with gold, Çakıroğlu with a silver medal and showed us what the Turkish woman would accomplish when she was given the opportunity. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) From here, every athlete who proudly waved our flag again sends my thanks to my brother, and I wish him a continued success. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are well aware of the value of our party to young people, especially our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who stands by sports and athlete at every turn. For 19 years, the EC PARTY has worked hard to contribute to the growth of qualified young people who have loved their country and their nation, and we continue to do so. Because, my dear young ones, you are our hope, you are the TEKNOFEST generation. You're constantly marching to great goals, with faith, determination, and determination, in spite of those who want to steal your hopes. You will build and cherish the future of our country. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who have built every corner of our country with sports facilities, youth centers, our Ministry of Youth and Sports, Kuvasimilliye city Balıkesir, not before and after 2002, but only in the early 2021, from Susurlik to Sündırgü, Edremit to Bandirma, from Dursunbey to Marmara Island, we are proud to be able to provide sports complexes, swimming pools, youth centers, tennis courts, tennis courts, carpets, if I were to pay the price for the services of our traditional sports fields, in order to produce the new facilities in the new city of the city. I wish Balıkesir the best for his youth. On behalf of our fellow, fellow citizens and young people, our Minister Mehmet Muharrem Kürkoğlu and our Ministry, who have worked to bring these facilities into our city, especially our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Like yesterday, tomorrow we will continue to be with our young people from sports to art to science to politics. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, we've always talked about the future, not until we remember the past. He played an active role in the founding stage of the Balıkesyrspor Club, served for years in our Ministry of Youth and Sports, served as chairman of the Bicycle and Halter Federation and the Referee Committee, and in 11 major departments, I ask God's mercy on all our sportsmen, including my father, Ahmet Aydemir, the national football referee, Ahmet Aydemir, who gives life to the afterlife, and dedicated to sports and sports. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our ministry thanks all the members of the Commission, the Minister and the bureaucrats who have worked hard to get their budget ready...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0045par0325	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0044par0326	...investing every penny of our future, I ask that the 2022-year budget bring blessings to our country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0045par0328	Yes, word requests have been met on behalf of the Justice and Development Party. Now, in the pledges of the party group, the first word belongs to Mr. Enez Kaplan of Tekirdağ. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0046par0332	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our HRP Party Group on the budget of the High National Assembly of Turkey and Public Control Agency for 2022, with the Central Budget Law Proposal of 2020. I salute your grand delegation and the citizens who are watching us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, the budget we're negotiating is the budget of poverty, corruption. He's been in power for 20 years, and you've brought nothing but poverty and corruption into our country that you've been trying to run with the presidency government system for the last four years. This budget is for a few people, suffering and persecution for millions of our citizens. With your budgets so far, you've made the rich richer, the poor poorer. There used to be a middle post, and thanks to you, it's gone. The administration, which has come to power by promising to fight poverty, corruption, bans, has led to greater poverty, greater corruption, greater bans. In the Court's audit reports, we can find many examples of corruption. According to the International Transparency's January 2021 Corruption Perception Index, Turkey ranked as 86th among 180 countries. It's among the five most regressing countries in the last eight years. Especially with the presidential government system, the decisions made by one person have made the country worse in every way. This government has no credibility in the international area or within the country. None of the motions and legal proposals made by opposition lawmakers have been evaluated in this freakic system that you started as a lawmaker. Just last month at the Plan and Budget Commission, we made 19 motions for the benefit of our nation as a good party, and unfortunately none of them were accepted. For example, our motion to give 45 billion liras to the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs budget for our citizens of EYT was rejected by the votes of power. Another motion was to add $7 billion 250 to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security's budget on additional 3600 indicators, which was rejected by the votes of power again. We've submitted 17 other motions like this in favor of our nation, but you've blocked your ears, ignored them, denied them. As soon as you're one of the opposition lawmakers, you reject the motions and proposals for the benefit of our nation. Members of Parliament, along with the presidential government system, the event of Parliament has been lost. It is evident that not the appointed ones, but the elected national lawmakers and the dignity of Parliament must be restored to their rightful place. Our chairman, Mr. Coral Akshener, has proposed the replacement of this freakic system and the improved and reinforced parliamentary system. This system will be based on pluralism, the country's administration will be in the power of prime minister and ministers, Turkey's Grand National Assembly will be strengthened, the rule of government will be determined by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which has been established with fair and free elections, the mandate to be the sole official of the president's appointment, the cabinet will be elected by the ministers, the ministers will be elected by the prime minister, the ministers will be responsible for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the current system will end the legal arrangement by the decision of the President, the power of law will only be established by Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which will be established by our nation's parliament. Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the most respected institution in the country that has always had the responsibility to set an example for all institutions of the state. Of course, the value of such a prestigious institution is expected to set an example for its employees at the same rate, but this is not the case. Parliament staff have pressing problems. There is a price difference among Parliament staff who have done the same job as members of the Prime Minister's Parliament after the presidential government has been passed over. This is causing unrest among the staff. Even though they do the same work, there are salary and staff differences in status, such as 4/A, 4/B, 4/D. I think these and so on should be corrected. You can't talk about efficient work at an interview agency where there are employees who have received the lowest points in their written exam, which is against rights and justice. You can't expect loyalty from an employee whose experience and savings he's been working on over the years have been in vain in his rise in office. The Turkish Grand National Assembly, which all institutions of the state need to imitate, is being given such favours and appointments that are not based on merit, and we can't talk about providing a better working environment in other institutions. Dear lawmakers, the salary of an officer who has exceeded thirty years in parliament and has reached the first degree is below the poverty line. In fact, in the institution, it would be complementary if the staff completes 30 years with a top title. Instead of workers who have received the highest marks on the written exam, the unfair, biased, biased stand performed under the name of the promotion of the promotion of representatives of the ruling trade union and preventing the practice of favourability. In the event of service service at the Turkish Grand National Assembly and no service service service, transport assistance has been imposed, and all personnel have benefited from this collective agreement. However, the members of the parliamentary staff were left out of the jurisdiction, unable to receive transport assistance. It's hard to understand that lawmakers who have served longer than most staff have been deprived of this assistance. With a new arrangement, the parliamentary adviser must be initiated to help his second advisor, assistant staff benefit from transport assistance. The rights to the same personnel to be compensated for improving their rights and to compensate for the loss of wages due to entering the tax language has become a matter of immediate solutions. Members of the Parliament, the Public Control Agency, as an independent and effective complaint mechanism for the functioning of public services, is an institution founded to study, investigate, and make recommendations in the sense of justice based on human rights and attitudes and actions of the administration. In 2020, 90,209 complaints were filed to the Public Control Agency, while 70,440 were related to poor basic support loans provided in the epidemic. Complaints have been examined and concluded directly by Chief Inspector. There has been a significant increase in applications to the Public Control Agency due to the epidemic. The number of applications reached 90,209 (s) this year, with an increase of 330.22 per cent. The maximum application is owned by our citizens between 35 and 73% of the age of 25 and 34. Some issues were done in economics, finances, and taxes at 80.28 per cent. This proved to be a sign that the economy's debacle, the buying power, and the aid of the epidemic has been inadequate. Dear lawmakers, as our President-General, Mr. Coral Akshener, said: "Turkey is not without it, our nation is not helpless." There's economic crisis, poverty, injustice, lawlessness, injustice, but don't worry, we'll figure it out. We are ready with our qualified staff, with our projects, with our solutions. Turkey faces a very deep crisis. There is only one solution: choice, choice, choice. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0047par0346	Mersin MP Behic Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0048par0349	Mr. President, we continue to discuss the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020 Central Executive Account Law Proposal. As part of the Turkish Grand National Assembly budget, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the IC Party Group to express my views on the Public Control Agency, and I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as we have long stated, our country faces a major state crisis. The reflections of this crisis show and feel in all areas, particularly the economy. Our citizen's debt, accused of not liking a job or saving money, is based on a trillion liras. Our compatriots have been able to meet their needs by lending them money. 34.6 million debtors have failed to pay 14.1 million and have been legally followed. Under the pillow, the black day's money melted away. The data released by the Istanbul Planning Agency two days ago demonstrates the reality of the situation; the cost of life in the past year has increased by 50.18 per cent. Sunflowers, wheat and LPG have increased by over 100 per cent, and the price of many basic products has increased by close proportions. The public is drowning in cost, inflation, interest, currency helix, cries for help surround the universe. As for our farmers, our farmers are being victimised by poor and dysfunctional agricultural policies and thus the agricultural sector is dying. In Mersin, my constituency, the farmer is either forced to leave his crops in the field or sell them at lower cost; that is the state of Turkey. But agriculture is strategic, and a nation whose agriculture is destroyed can't be independent. Mr. Erdogan's solution to all this was to delay the farmer's loan. What if you postpone it, won't the debt be paid sooner or later? Also, why is the drought support promised in June still unintended? Dear friends, the picture our country faces is a disaster painting, a crisis painting, a bankruptcy painting. High interest rate has been turned into a country import dump with low currency policy, our foreign debt has increased rapidly, our financial independence has been compromised. This policy has been continued so far, and has now been converted to low interest high currency policy, called inflation for interest reasons. In short, Turkey has been converted to a test board and has been converted to slavery policy. Mr. President is giving the Chinese example, so even if you're willing to draw foreign capital, the labor force is being cheapened, and it's called "safah" (for example), our people are being enslaved. Dear lawmakers, of course, one of the areas we live in where this state crisis is directly and negatively affected is our public institutions and institutions. I can't say that our institutions with strong traditions, original cultures have been failing for some time, but they're actually being weakened. I think there's an ulterior motive here. I regret to inform you that our valued institutions and organizations have been made a representative of the ruling party. Our bureaucrats have become partisans, leading to dissolution in society. Not based on merit, but on our state tradition, our rules, they've been destroyed one by one. This is the bankruptcy of the state mind, a proof of bad governance. The current government, unfortunately, continues to act in an authoritarian, arbitrary and unmanageable way, committing a public crime, showing daring behavior. In the end, the government becomes a monster in the hands of these rulers, who behaves cruelly and in the hands of ceberut. We may not say everything everywhere out of respect for the state and the nation, but let it be known that we are not aware of the situation and the developments. We're always following what's relevant to our country, to our people, and we're going to carry on carrying on these issues here. Dear friends, on the basis of the protection of citizens against formal and illegal conduct of official authorities, the Public Control Agency oversees all kinds of actions and actions of the administration by creating an independent and effective complaint mechanism, which ensures that they are fit for human rights, legal and rights. I repeat, I'm talking about an institution that will stand next to a citizen in the face of official authorities and listen to demands and complaints from them. When we look at applications to the Public Control Agency, we see only 90 thousand applications in 2020, which has increased more than three stories in the previous year. The three institutions, which have been most complained about poor basic support loans in the epidemic, have been Justice, National Education and Health Ministrys. The institution is largely focused on economic problems in connection with general applications. It is of course glad to see that the recommendations have been met at 76.5 per cent positive, but at the moment we are here today, the AKP has been partisand. It is the biggest problem for people who are from the AKP (AKP) or who are auctioning to AKP (AKP) to be appointed here. See, the legislation is clear, the election procedure is obvious. Here, we don't see a democratic, fair, right-to-right way. It is important to discuss how neutral the chief and auditors, who were appointed as a result of the elections, will be. We've explained all this before. While we appreciate the acceptance of some recommendations from the relevant institutions, the list of issues that are looking for solutions is quite long. Dear friends, what should be done at the Public Control Agency, it's possible to count them as substances, but because of the limitations of our time, I don't want to get into it, but I'm going to express the issues. The problem is to build a single man's regime on all institutions. The problem is that the balance control system in the country is destroyed. The problem is embezzling the entire nation's wealth with corruption, looting, extortion. The problem is cooperation. The problem is to tie people's eyes and minds with lies and distractions. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear friends, I want to tell you about a lawyer and theorist -- you know -- Carl Schmitt. The German thinks: "As beauty in aesthetics is ugly; if there's good in morality, there's bad in politics, there's a friend enemy." If the division of friends and enemies is eliminated, they will be eliminated in political life. He says, "The political area is considered a crisis and grouping area." That's who theorist of one man and the State of Emergency is. Constitutional dictatorship is the basic system of thought. The only thing that matters is keeping it safe. Every time things get bad, someone becomes a terrorist, an outside altar, a collaborator. A whole political area, or society, is wanted to divide as AKP people and others. That is the whole story of the AKP's existence because there is no other AKP to make enemies of. Yes, the restoration of balance and control is the absolute necessity of good governance. First, it is necessary to put an end to the alternative political language and a sense of authoritarian governance.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0049par0360	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0048par0361	As I complete my words, I want it to be known that good people are able and able to solve all of Turkey's problems. There's motive, there's outcome, there's solution. The solution is the improved and reinforced parliamentary system. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Yes, this budget is a non-visional, mission-free, unexcited corruption budget, and so while we declare that we will vote negatively on the budget, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0049par0365	In turn, Mr. Feridun Bahshi. Here you are, Mr. Bahshi.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0050par0368	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion and opinion of the party on the budgets of the Constitutional Court and the Court. I salute you all. The countries under the rule of law take into account the audit and performance reports provided by higher control institutions through legislation, executive and judicial bodies, and allow the necessary boards to act in accordance with the reports prepared. Several reports made by the Court and shared with the public are missing from a judicial trial, even though there is damage to the public, rant, bribery, corruption, and irregularity. No doubt one of the institutions the EC PARTY government has removed from its original post is the Court. It is not acceptable to impose pressure on the Court to make control unqualified. Any government that believes in the rule of law can answer and must agree to be manageable. When the government, which is completely using public power and resources from the nation, is removed from control, corruption, irregularities and corruption will increase and increase. In a public place without supervision, there is no effective way to prevent irregularity and wastefulness. Therefore, the Court must be made to do its work more effectively. The way is to ensure that the Court's president works freely for the auditors at the institution and that the reports are made necessary. Dear lawmakers, we're also discussing the Constitutional Court budget, but first let's take a look at the structure of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court now consists of 15 members, 12 of the 15 members elected by the President and 3 of the Parliament, and no more than half of the members of the AYM are lawyers, including the president. The Supreme Court's sole duty is not to supervise the Constitutional Court's compliance with the Constitutional Court, but also to hold criminal trials as the Supreme Court, and now only one member is a criminal lawyer. How will those who have not studied law, who have not been a judge in their life, who have no knowledge of criminal law be tried, and who have no faith in their decision? All decisions made by the Supreme Court in the past as the Supreme Court have been discussed until today. What's the solution? The solution is to arrange for the Supreme Court to be removed from the AYM (AYM) and to be appointed as chairman of the Supreme Court. Dear lawmakers, the essential of universal law is the right to a fair trial and the law of innocence. To do that, we need to give up this freaky system and quickly bring in a reformed and reinforced democratic system where the power separation system will be built. As is known, AYM publishes individual application statistics in three-month periods. According to these statistics, the rate of violation of the right to a fair trial is 62.3%. In democratic countries, arrests are being made, cases are being filed, protests and criticisms -- a constitutional right -- have been described as crimes; ruling members are constantly demanding that the judiciary take action. In particular, arrests have been made to the President in the slightest criticism. At the same time, the party's leader, the president, uses an excessive language for opposition party presidents or citizens in his speeches, and is not known in what capacity. Those who answer and object are being tried and arrested for insulting the President. Politicians are starting to talk about the case before the investigations begin, and they're under the influence of justice. According to the Constitution's Article 138. According to the provisions of Article 138, there are no words that make it appear that they are guilty, that they have committed crimes according to the Turkish Penal Code. This ban must be enforced in accordance with the principle of innocence. Dear lawmakers, there are two elements of the independence and neutrality of the judiciary: First, the independence of the judiciary as a whole; and second, the independence of judges in the process of making decisions. Judges must never take the 90th article of the Constitution out of their minds during and in judgment. According to this, agreements that have been enforced according to procedure are under law, agreements on basic rights and freedoms are above the constitution and above the law, and are the basis of innocence. Everyone is innocent until they've been judged. Courts must comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions and the European Court of Human Rights decisions. Legal procedures and sanctions must be carried out against judges and prosecutors who do not comply with the decisions of the AYM and the ECHR, as it is in the İstanbul High Criminal Court's decision. Although not a lawyer recently, Zühtü Arslan, who is still the President of the Constitutional Court, has expressed a realistic expression of the judicial problems the country is facing. In the speech of Zühtü Arslan, the attitude and conduct of a person to be convicted without a court ruling violates the rule of independence of the courts. Similarly, pressure on judges or courts about ongoing trials has a negative effect on the causality of innocence. Therefore, effective independence of the judiciary is vital to the protection of its capacities and basic rights. He's right; if that's the case with the Supreme Court, I don't even want to think about the local courts. Dear lawmakers, 5 packages have been issued in 2019 as part of the Judiciary Reform Strategy Document, consisting of nine goals, 63 targets and 256 activities that will continue until 2023. If you ask me, has there been any improvement in the judiciary after these five packages that have been discussed and legalized? The public responds very well. More than half of the voter of other parties, let alone an AK PARTY voter, are not confident in justice and justice; the results of the International Trust in the Judiciary Index are already in sight. Turkey's problems are ranked first in poverty, while in the 2nd place, there is distrust of justice. For example, in the first package of judgments, the opinion made for criticism was not considered a crime. However, this arrangement had already been guaranteed in both our Constitution and our laws. There's been a new adjustment, but has there been any change in the application? Of course not. Investigations and arrests continue, as if there were no regulation in the past, with the reform package being redacted. Immediately after the first judicial package came into effect, İsmail Ducel, Müyessir Yıldız, Murat Zekel and many other journalists went to prison for criticism. It means that the law is based on one man, not on a lack of law. I do not trust the judgment during the trial of Muyesser Star. This judgment is dependent on political will, he said. This defense is very meaningful, and it's very sad in terms of where our country is coming from. Unfortunately, these aren't the only names that don't believe in justice in the state of our country. The opposition and our nation have no faith in the judicial system in our country, justice and law. The will of the ruling to reform the judiciary is necessary not only to believe in opposition, but also to those who have served as justice ministers in power and even in the past, but also to repent collectively on the subject of reform.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0051par0378	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0050par0379	Dear lawmakers have gone beyond serving the purpose of taking the independence of many legal regulatory institutions and creating institutions under the rule of power during the EC PARTY rule. The rule of lawless conduct of the EC PARTY is not a constitutional act. The government, which prides itself on coming with the nation's vote, has unfortunately abused its support from the nation. But these difficult days have come to an end. The ruling of the Good Party is near. As our Mr. Coral Akşener said in the power of the Good Party, our goal is the rule of law and the full independent, neutral judiciary. (All those who have a job in the judiciary will receive the principle of rule of law in front of an independent and impartial judiciary. We will vote no on this budget, which we view as a budget of poverty and corruption. I salute the great Turkish nation and the Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0052par0383	This is Mr. Yasin Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0053par0386	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the PTA Group on the budget of 2022 of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and its subsidiaries. In a poem about absence, Master Necip Fazil says: The absence, that freezing ice, that extinguishing darkness; All ignorance and complete forgetfulness... I don't know, but we all know that our citizens are monitoring budget talks. From this bench, in the freezing cold, in the dark, with everything in the budget alone, a little more patience, a little more strength, a little more effort, I salute our citizens and the General Assembly. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Dear lawmakers, if the general budget of 2022 and the budget of the Ministry of Genius Energy and Resources is given a name, the extension of this name will be a budget of absence, darkness and forgetfulness. Therefore, I will refer to these themes while referring to the budget of 2022 of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and its subsidiaries. First, let's start with the forgetfulness part. The archive is important and binding. We're all part of a political party. In this context, the commitments in our parties' election declaration include oath binding. And there are commitments to matters that directly affect the public's budget, which should not be made by those who make that promise to be forgetful. Because you can forget, but neither the archive nor the citizen will. Let's see, what did the AK PARTY say in 2002? Incompatible with our country's predictable growth perspectives, trade or pay agreements, concessions and business agreements leave Turkey with an increasingly difficult financial burden to carry. The transfer of this financial burden to consumers with high unit prices and high taxes has consequences that deter energy consumption, slow growth, reduce our local capital's competitiveness, and block foreign capital investments in 2002. All of these findings are very accurate, but unfortunately, these problems remain up-to-date after nineteen years. Don't they ask what you've been doing to him for 20 years? Let's re-enact today: the energy field has become an emergency for Turkey and a difficult problem to get out of. Despite the diversity of energy sources, Turkey is a country of energy importers. And when you come to power, our country is 67 percent dependent on the energy supply, and now it's 74% dependent on the outside. I don't want to lose any more sleep by converting the cost of this addiction to Turkish lira against increasing foreign currency prices every day, but it's the truth. Now we're going to have objections, we're going to have increased industrial production, we're going to use more energy, there's a lot of energy costs in the world. These are your defenses, but they're not acceptable excuses. Yes, energy costs are high all over the world, but developed countries are trying to minimize their costs with sustainable policies, or they're trying to reduce their import addiction by considering internal resources, not by dealing with pink growth figures, not by handing out their arms to companies they've given the right to take over. If Turkey is facing an increasingly difficult financial burden to move in, the main reason is for it to be unpredictable and unplanned. The most important part of our energy-imported addiction is natural gas. During 2021, the length of part of our country's long-term gas contracts expired, but these agreements, covering about 20 to 20 years of contracts, have not been renewed. Even if we save this year, it's a mystery which seller we're going to buy natural gas for, what price we're going to get it for. Putin's work is on the rise, Iran is sometimes difficult to transfer even the necessary gas to Turkey, Azerbaijan doesn't have enough gas; in which case, Gazprom remains, and Gazprom mentions high numbers. We're asking, how much do we charge for natural gas? The answer is: "Ticari secret." But we continue to search out the solution. At this point, our country is not just in need of energy, it's in despair. We're either gonna keep getting gas from the exorbitant price, or we're gonna be stuck in the cold and dark. Today, the loss of high-spot prices due to inefficiency has cost BOTAS $6.4 billion; this bill must be paid by someone. In December, a new 20 per cent increase in natural gas used in power generation plants and industry increased by 196 per cent in industrial gas over the past year, and the price increase in power plants was 240 per cent. BOTAS did not bill three months of damage; this is the part of the job told the citizen. The increase in gas and electricity prices was insufficient to cover the costs of BOTAS and EUAS, and it was announced that capital transfers were planned for these organisations within the year, according to the annual programme drafted by the Treasury and Finance Ministry and the President of Strategy and Budget in 2022. Where's he gonna do it? Central budget. What's the biggest pencil that makes up the central budget? Taxes. Who's paying the tax? Citizen. I thought BOTAS didn't reflect the gas increase on the housing. Let's see, we didn't project the price increase on industrial and power plants into the dwellings. He saved himself, saying, "Well, doesn't this government know that the price increases to industry and power plants will be reflected directly into production and therefore will be reflected directly into every pen that the citizen consumes?" He's got the easy way out. Two stories we've found are natural gas, they're not taking it out. Or outside forces are blocking us. (Applause from parties) I've got an uncle who's close to 100, and I've seen a phone call with his son. Uncle Haci asked, "How are things going with the government?" He answered, "It's a bit bad. Why?" he asked. Because his son knew that his father loved Mr. Recep so much, he said that he was a bit of a force not to upset him. When he answered, Uncle Haci said the same thing with the fear of Asia Minor: "My son, the infidel does the infidel act; do you make your Islam equal?," he said. As the late Omar Lütfi Mete said, whatever this country suffered from the forgotten Muslims. Dear lawmakers, wherever you look at the Ministry budget, it's crooked; although when you look at the entire budget, what's true? The curves in the Ministry of Energy are nothing compared to the entire budget. The budgets you've done before, they've run out of years, and they're always open, so this time you've made a revolution, you've eaten a third of the budget, you've finished it, you've destroyed it. You can tell a citizen he's in want. When the budget was presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the dollar was $9.36 dry, in the 13.70s as of this morning. The Ministry of Energy is the head of the ministries that are most affected by this rise in foreign currency. However, our Energy Ministry's claim continues. We will offer low-cost energy after this time, even if you want it, you can't offer it, it's passed the market because there's no institution left to make independent decisions about it, and there's no institution left to decide on it. Let's start with the EPDK. What is the interpretation of the EPDK? Energy Market Editing Agency. The EPDK has been authorized by law to create, regulate and supervise a transparent energy market that can operate in competition for the use of electricity, natural gas, oil, and LPG (e.g., quality, continuous, and low cost, in line with the environment). As of today, however, the EPDK has completely lost its ability to be an independent and regulatory authority. The EPDK, which has become an institution where equal decisions are not made, has been made without an analysis of the impact in the market, and transparency has been lost. Because of the institution's applications, there is an environment in the energy market where even investors experience uncertainty, while electricity is not a single plan for what gas prices are going to be. Unfortunately, you don't have a plan to do it anymore. According to power and production sources on September 2021, the power of Turkey has reached 98,788 megawatts, according to energy minister's statement. 25 per cent of the power is in the public sector, 75 per cent in the private sector. The private sector is a number of capital groups, which have been declared indispensable by power. Electricity production is in these groups, distribution is in these groups, the refrigeration operations of oil are in these groups, imports, distribution, marketing and sales are in those groups. You might say there's EUAS representing the public on the market. He prefers buy-in plants, not low-priced sources, while while he's buying electricity, and because he's not meticulously preparing for goods and services contracts, he's causing them to cancel unnecessary tenders, and he's doubling the public's electricity costs. Here's to TİASŞ, one of the Ministry's relevant institutions. TEİASİŞ is the main institution that provides the distribution of electricity produced in Turkey to the manufacturer and is responsible for the transfer of the distribution network. TEİAS is part of privatisation, among the rarest companies in the public sector, which receive the most grants and are profitable among public institutions. Our country is in an economic strait, and the shortage of resources is growing daily, and the government's privatisation of TEİASK clearly has no explanation for the giving up of an institution that makes a steady profit. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to continue through institutions and policies that raise the cost for the reasons why it can't offer low-cost energy. A relevant department of the Ministry is also TEDAS. Because of the privatisation of all of its own distribution and retail sales companies, it can't buy or sell energy. The company's only remaining authority is to conduct bureaucratic transactions of almost privatized companies. I'm afraid there's no logical answer to such a reasonable question as what happened to them? TEDAS has yet to collect 3.6 billion liras due to the privatisations of the distribution company, because we're losing the majority of it to the distribution companies of companies everywhere. They were also prevented from paying the Electric Energy Fund, which they collected from consumers and should be deposited in the Ministry's bank accounts. The energy ministry's relevant institutions have fallen to the citizens to accept bail for such damage, loss of profit, and more damage. Today, the tax collection receipt for a citizen who has a low-cost right to receive energy has turned into a tax collection receipt. In an offer of a law filled with secrets, we removed the TRT share from the electricity bill. Although he advertises it, taxes continue to be received with tax tax. As a result, every penny transferred from the public's common budget to energy companies is unfortunately reflected in the public budget as energy poverty and deprivation. In today's economy, where unemployment rates increase daily, when minimum wage completely melts in the face of inflation, families have to pay more electricity bills every month. With that dignity, we're talking about a budget that condemns our citizens to darkness. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Energy has an element that will solve Turkey's energy problem: thorium. Turkey has enough thorium reserves for our country forever. Again, another strategic mine the Ministry neglected, the boron. 64% of the world's reserves of the Borial mine are in Turkey. The question is, can we use these two mines as the last product, so will the outside forces feed it to Turkey? Apparently, they'll do anything not to feed him, but like our uncle Haji said, the infidel will do his insurgency. Do you fulfill the need for your Islam, your Turkishness? (See the great opportunity that should not be missed in order for us to live freely in this geography.) Where is the Bor Karbür Production Facility in Balıkesir? The added value of the mined pipe is worth 2,000 times as much when processed. It's 200 dollars in raw materials, $400,000 in high-tech production. Since the necessary technology is not in Turkey, we can only assess raw pipes. Western countries refuse to give up boron technology. The boron we sell cheaply comes back to us as an expensive imported product. Here's two of our mines that will give you a lot of time each year, let alone an addiction to energy imports. But you have no intention of planning what to study, you can't even imagine it. Dear lawmakers, energy is very important, problems are big, but time is short. No problem is unresolved, as long as it's good. As I leave your presence, I wish the 2022 budget to be the final budget for the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0054par0407	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0053par0408	As a party, we will stick firmly to the undivisable integrity of the Turkish state and the principles of the establishment of the state of Ataturk, established by Ataturk, the strengthened parliamentary democracy in Turkey, the rule of rule of law, the principle of separation of powers, a fair state, a fair society, a fair bureaucracy, honest politics, a rich and peaceful Turkey, with the permission of Allah. Our path is the way of the great Turkish nation. Our journey and our struggle are for the great Turkish nation. There is no doubt that we will be successful. Blessed is he who says he is Turkish! I salute our great nation and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0054par0411	Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0055par0414	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PTA Party Group on the budget of the Department of Energy and its subsidiaries. I salute the General Assembly. Energy is a phenomenon that is effective in all areas of life and economy, so it is a matter of national security for the country. I want to first focus on the energy policy of the EC PARTY. What was alleged, what was the truth? The energy policy in the party programme is based on protecting our national interests and maintaining the security and continuity of energy supply, creating an energy market based on competition and protecting the environment and human health that we are sensitive to, the EC PARTY says. So, is that the truth? Turkey has been using significant import energy sources since the 1980s. We're an external-dependent country that imports oil, natural gas, coal. In the 1990s, in the 51 percent, in the 67% energy supply in 2002, our dependence on the energy supply is over 70 per cent these days, which means protecting our national interests in energy. If you look at pencils, it's an external addiction at 72 percent in primary energy consumption, 92 percent in oil, 99 percent in natural gas. Before each natural gas increase, natural gases claimed to have been in the Black Sea have yet to reduce this dependency on the outside. In August, energy imports increased by 104 per cent compared to the same period last year, at $4.3 billion, according to TÜİK. Energy imports will be over $40 billion at the end of this year, according to the presidential strategy and budget presidency report. It is also predicted that this increase in imports will continue in 2022, 2023 and 2024, as well as in dollars. I don't know if those who don't care about the loss of Turkish lira are aware of that, but as Turkish lira loses value against dollars, these numbers will also be folded on a dollar basis, and will increase exponentially. Also, outside dependency can cause the country's lack of natural gas with a sudden crisis, so solutions such as storing natural gas at sufficient capacity should be used. Look, our country has an underground gas storage field with a total of 4.5 billion cubic metres. Our gas consumption in 2020 is 48 billion cubic metres. According to experts, the warehouse should be at least 16 billion cubic meters, but unfortunately, it's only our 2023 target. The energy policies of the EC PARTY have failed from the title "Property and Continuity of the energy supply" by protecting our national interests. In addition, the party programme of the EC PARTY also includes the launch of serious scientific and technical projects on hydrogen energy, which is the energy of the future. These projects have been done, and we don't know if they've come to an end. Where do we use hydrogen? Another sentence from the AK PARTY's party programme is that privatisation and licensing will be completely transparent and competitive. At the end of the privatisations, about 80 per cent of electricity production and 100 per cent of distribution and billing have been transferred to the private sector. Interestingly, these tenders, which are said to be transparent and competitive, have always gone to certain contractors. And even more interestingly, some of these groups are in the top rankings of companies that have the most jobs in the world, and they're so lucky. Another failure to protect our national interests has become an energy sector with an index to foreign currency, even domestic purchases on the dollar; for example, 15,82 cents/kWh in coal, 15.72 cents in biomass, 14,46 cents in solar energy, 12.35 cents in nuclear plants. It seems our support is both in dollars and in large pouches. For example, in nuclear energy, capital, enterprise and deactivation, the cost of waste management is around $5.6 cents per kilowatt hour worldwide. We'll give more than twice that to the Russians for decades for the Akkuyu plant. Let's do this first plant, but we're going to learn about technology, and we're going to do the second one ourselves. Add pens such as distribution prices, consumption tax, VAT and existing TRT share, and the cost of kilowatts will also reach 20 to 25 cents, which will be more easily understood when I turn it into Turkish lira. It's almost impossible for a significant part of our people to consume electricity at these prices. Today the electric ring is billed for about nine cents. However, in 2020, 3.7 million subscribers were cut off, and 2.1 million households were powered down, according to our family minister. Dear friends, without damaging the environment, we support the renewable energy that is nature-friendly, but who are we making rich with such exaggerated guarantees? Besides, the damage done to the environment by river-type hydroelectric plants is obvious. Being environmentally sensitive to the energy written in your party program. The policy comes to mind, and you don't do it very well. For example, when the villagers object to the construction of the plant's contractors killing nature, you send law enforcement to the citizens. As far as mines are concerned, the AK PARTI programme says that environmental awareness will be monitored at every stage from mining to consumption, but in the name of mining search, natural and forest massacres are being done, and we've seen it many times. Besides, despite all the fuss, we don't have any significant gains. Since your policies are an example of inheritance. You're trying to convert our mines into cash without looking to see if we have value. That's what colonialism in Africa was: Africa's mines moved to Europe as raw materials. Today, this colonialism has been transformed into a voluntary sale of raw materials. Even raw materials, such as stone, marble rock, are exported, then imported as processed products. Dear friends, let's remove the mines that we have our own ability to process, and certainly not remove the mines that we can't process, that we can't get any added value. Let's take it out when we have the savings to process them; our children and our grandchildren have the right to them. A point in the budget has come to my attention, and I'd like to point out that the nuclear regulatory budget has a large amount of service; the $135 million of the $220m budget goes to this purchase. Also, this is a continuous increase over the years, what is this service? There's talk of purchases for radiation and accelerant technologies? Dear ruling lawmakers, you may not be paying attention to our talks and suggestions here, but it is being carefully followed by the possible presidency that some of our proposals have been taken into consideration. For example, we said no additional time for the thermal power plants to have filters in their chimneys, you didn't listen, you did, but a week later, he came back from Mr. President. We said it wouldn't be right for a person with a claim to plagiarism in his doctoral thesis to become a chancellor at Bosporus University, to be dismissed, but you ignored it, but Mr. President dismissed it. We said to remove the TRT portion of the electricity bills, consider the gradual tariff, and now you've put it on the bill under the order of Mr. President. Based on our proposals being taken into consideration by the presidency, I'm going to make another suggestion: Mr. President, stop privatizing TEİASY immediately. I'm not addressing the Minister because in the budget talks, Mr. Secretary made a comment that the electricity transmission was the same as the distribution. TEİAS is a natural monopoly that operates Turkey's system in interconnection. THE total length of the transmission lines of TEIAS is about 70,000 kilometers. It is the longest transmission line in Europe. Turkey is the operator of the electrical system and provides constant supply of electricity to every point in the country, with constant, reliable, stable frequencies and setbacks. Above all, TEIA is a strategic institution.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0056par0425	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0055par0426	Momentary mistakes that could occur in TİASY can cause the country to remain in darkness. We said TEIAS is a monopoly, a non-profit organization, which is organised by the EPDK to cover investment and business costs. The fact that TEIAS is profitable will also make the arrangements of the EPDK (EPDK) meaningless. With persecution, the energy policy of the EC PARTY is a reflection of lack and poverty-enhancing policies. This energy policy that makes the people poor but enriches a few firms must be terminated immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0057par0430	On behalf of the Good Party Group, the final word belongs to the member of the Tripoli MP Huseyin Orris. Here you go, Mr. Anres.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0058par0433	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I wish that the budget for the Ministry of Youth and Sports we're interviewing brings blessings to our country, to our nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to start by reminding you of a speech I had last year. Last year, in the budget talks of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, I started by reminding myself of the Sports Clubs and Federations Act, as it is known in public, what concrete steps have been taken regarding the sports law, what work is to be done, and what work is to be done. As it is known, the Ministry of Youth and Sports held a workshop in Ankara in January 2020. It included club presidents, executives, and sportsmen from various amateur majors from all four parts of Turkey. In this workshop, Mr. Minister will bring the Law on Sports Clubs and Federations. He used his statement. It's been almost two years since then, and we haven't seen any concrete improvements in sports law in this process, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say that. A draft had been drawn up, he was coming to the House, and there were a lot of media reports about it, and it was written on it, and it was drawn up, but the sports law proposal didn't come to Parliament last year. As we come to this day, news of this law is still on the press release. As of September, many media agencies, especially TRT, have a new sports law coming to an end in the new sports law. Under the headline of these reports, it said that the relevant law would be held in Parliament at this time, but there's still nothing coming. There's a headline, but there's no law. Why is that? That's right, we've had a pandemic process, and it's going on. I'd also like to consider the fact that the pandemic process is a fact, but I don't think it's necessary to avoid the easyness of using the pandemic process as an excuse. As a brother of yours who has been president of the 1461 Tripoli Football Club and has been in the sports community, what is our final status in the sports law, and when will it come into effect? I'd like to ask you this. Dear friends, the situation of football clubs in Turkey is clear, many are in debt, there is no control mechanism. In the last 20 years, Turkish football has increased its financial income by nearly 600 to 700 per cent, while its athletic performance, unfortunately, has dropped to the rest of 2000. So Turkish football was somehow able to increase its financial income in some way, while the top structure that could transform this financial expansion into a sporty performance was not built in line with the conditions of the day. Then we need to ask the question: Why did the athletic performance of Turkish football fall when its financial revenues increased? The resources available in Turkish football have not been used to max out sporting performance, friends. The inevitable result was the decline of athletic performance. As a result, in the last 20 years of Turkish football, administrative development has been far behind the pace of financial development. Now, I'm saying this law is important to eliminate these problems. At this point, let us present our views, our proposals as opposition; for Turkish sports, for Turkish football, we will contribute to the establishment of this law that we think will be good for the federations; together, in common mind, I say, let's get this law out of the way as soon as possible. My wish is that the law of sports, as it was last year, is not only in the headlines and in the transcripts, it immediately comes to the House, legalizes, and goes into effect. Dear friends, in this part of my speech, I'd like to say a few words about providing the technical, minimum conditions required by earthquake, fire and zoning legislation in student dorms. In last year's budget talks, you shared information on student dorms' earthquake-resistant tests, strengthening, closing, and destruction of risky buildings. The audit report published on the Court's official website included issues related to this issue. According to this, some of the buildings rented by the ministry in the past years or in the workplace have been found to be found that the lease agreements have not been terminated and some contracts have been extended, even though the use of them as student housing is inappropriate. In this audit report published by the Court, data given to the Ministry Court have been examined, and it has been revealed that a total of 24 dorm buildings closed in 2020 have been closed due to the end of the contract period, the opening of a new dorm building and the failure of only one building by the Ministry. However, even though the contract is over, the lease agreement appears to be 169 buildings that are not available for renovation between one and five years. As detailed in the Court's report, I say that the technical, fire and zoning legislation required by earthquakes, fire and zoning legislation, in which the minimum conditions are not provided, the presence of students, God forbid, would invite irreparable disasters. I'm saying that no more lease agreements should be extended for the high-risk housing buildings. I'm stressing that we need to be sensitive about this. For this reason, the Ministry must immediately begin work on the use of such buildings, closing them, or re-building them in destruction. The health and safety of our children, who are the guarantee of our future, is above all else. Such disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, and fires, should be considered important in recent years. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you another matter of student dorms. As you know, in the new school year, our college boys have had housing problems in many places, many of our cities. It was a situation that occurred in the eyes of all who were biased and neutral. With the beginning of a face-to-face education, our university students expressed that the Credit and Homes Association had no homes to live in, that the number of beds was reduced due to private dorms that closed the pandemic process, and that they were having serious problems with rent increases. However, you students are liars, your dorms are sufficient. You have accused these young people of lying. Dear friends, the truth is out there. Look, I'll tell you something: In the process, I've had a demand for housing and housing from my constituency, both from Tripoli, or from our other cities, from all four sides of Turkey. I also know that these demands have gone out to all our MPs, and I've seen a lot of them. The situation is clear: the capacity of the dorm is not the capacity of students. By denying it, sir, you can't hide it by creating perceptions in the media, you can't solve this problem. Come, face the bitter truth, spend time on perception to solve the problem. It's a lot of perception, but your perception theater has dropped the curtain, the game's over, and I'm telling you to accept that. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] In the meantime, I'd like to say thank you. I also want to thank Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, and the executives and employees of all municipal and public institutions who have supported thousands of students by renting hotels or renting guesthouses, buildings at work during the time of this sacrifice. Dear friends are being given examples of their home capacity from the 60s and 70s; they often do so, friends of the ruling party. It's either 2021, guys, and you've been running this country for 20 years. I think it's time for you to stop your habit of comparing it to that of fifty-six years ago. (Applause from party lines) This also makes you fall into error; sometimes you confuse the years, the numbers, the date doesn't match, you don't match the date, you don't match the place you gave it to, and there's something like Zaytung news. (PEOPLE CHATTERING) So I'm telling you to drop it. And in the past tense, I say it's true to compare the conditions of the day with the conditions of the present in the changing and developing world, and ask your conscience about that. It's no use for our young people to have a vicious argument here. And I'm not your brother, who likes polemics so much, but let's talk about what can be done, how problems can be solved that will reduce the victimhood of our children. The country's economic situation is clear, it is a fact that the dorms are inadequate. Depending on this, private dorms are clearly underpaid by the rent prices. Let's talk about what can be done to benefit these children and their families. So I'm thinking that if you take our criticism here and consider our suggestions, you'll do a lot more useful work. Dear friends, in this part of my speech, I'd like to present a few things to our Grand Council about the ability of municipalities to contribute to sports. In regard to the amount of municipal contributions to sports, the amount of tax revenues of the budget does not exceed seven per thousand to the city's municipalities, and 12 per thousand to the other municipalities. There is a decree; this is to contribute to sports. These funds have been earmarked in many municipalities today, not to amateur sports clubs, but to sports clubs in which municipalities form. In addition, there are allegations that these transfers are being used as a covered grant for municipalities, as well as the cost of hosting them here. However, it should be given to amateur teams in that province as aid to clubs. I did mention that again last year, but I passed on a request from our clubs, especially from our amateur sports clubs, but I had to repeat it because there was no progress. In today's conditions, we need to support and support amateur sports clubs that are struggling to survive in financial distress. I have one more thing to offer, depending on that. In a situation where economic problems are at an extreme stage, where amateur clubs can barely afford to go to competitions, they can't provide service service or transportation to athletes who are paying a fee to go to training. Therefore, active licensed amateur athletes have demands from city buses to allow them to benefit from transportation for free, like, over 65 years of age; this is very important for both our sports brothers and our amateur clubs, and I wanted to convey that to you. I've only got a minute. I've got a minute. Dear friends, let me tell you a little bit about my constituency, my hometown of Tripoli. I'd like to present a few issues concerning my hometown of Tripoli. In Tripoli, we had a Yavuz Selim field, home to dozens of amateur clubs, which had a very important place in the history of Tripolinspor, where legends grew, and the Yavuz Selim football field in Karak Square was built. The Hussain Avni Aker Stadium was also part of the area, with the championships of Tripoli. Hussain Avni Aker Stadium holds a very important place in the heart of every Tripolin and Tripoli. In memory of the past, a monument to Avni Aker Stadium was also built in this nation's garden. But what I want to mention, Mr. Minister, is that the mayors of the EC PARTY made promises during their candidacy to build a football field in the national garden. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0059par0451	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0058par0452	Friends of the EC PARTY made promises to build a field here during the election time, and they put this in the election brochures. Again, friends from the ruling party promised to build a field within this nation's garden, but in the later course, the football components of the football town of Tripoli were told that there would be no football fields inside the nation's garden. We know that in many lands there are football fields in the nation's gardens. I would like to say that there has been an injustice done to the football city of Tripoli. Again, the same thing happened in Akçaabat district. The Fatih Stadium, the only status in our district of 130,000 inhabitants, was destroyed and replaced by a national garden. Now the willow field is falling to build a sports high school. The Sebatspor club, which is the same age as the Republic, and the eight teams of this district, where will they play football and play sports? Akçaabat Sebatspor is a team that competes in the Super League with a long history of sports. I'd like to request a status quo here as well. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit01spe0060par0456	Thank you. Proposals for the Good Party have been met. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0060par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume our talks with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. Now it's time for the nationalist movement group. Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı is the first speaker. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0061par0008	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this occasion, I salute your high council and our beloved nation, watching over us on their screens. At the beginning of my words, I remember and honor the first President of our Parliament and founder of our Republic, Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our national struggle heroes, the dead members of our Parliament, and our beloved martyrs. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the symbol of the Turkish nation's independence, freedom and development, the security of our democracy, our national state and our future. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the first Parliament to win the war on independence, save the country and form a state. Our Parliament, titled "Gazi Parliament" for leading the Liberation War, deserved to receive the title of the second national savior and the title "Gazi" with the example of resistance for democracy in the elimination of the July 15th treacherous attempt to invade. In the face of any attack on our independence and sovereignty, our parliament has taken a stand in time to protect our country and our nation and to preserve our democracy and continue to display a national and effective stance. As it is known, on 16 April 2017, a radical reform was made in the government's system by the will of our beloved nation and the presidential government system. In the parliamentary system, the forces do not function in a healthy way; since the government has emerged from the legislature, the administration has established a right to the law, so the union of forces is essential. As a matter of fact, in our country during the parliamentary system, the situation was clearly seen, and almost all of the laws that came out were in the form of the government's legislation. Since the political force in the parliamentary system is in absolute control of Parliament, it is unable to carry out its function of legislation, executive body control. The presidential system is based on the separation of solid forces. Both the executive and legislative body are elected by the public. As the world's presidential systems apply, the presidential government system also has unilateral execution. A unilateral execution is a distinctive feature of the presidential system. The presidential government system is basically a more democratic management property because of the lack of government crises, political stability, accountability, and the lack of strong governance, which directly takes its legitimacy from the public. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been strengthened by its government system as well as by representation and authority; as its application to issue a decree on the legislature under the legislature of parliament, based on the mandate of the legislature to carry out legislature, has been lifted, and has been shaped according to the number of parliamentary votes of MPs based on the rule of law in the State of Emergency, the structure of Turkey, which is expected to be nullified in three months if it is not approved by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Parliament has begun to legislature proposals on legislation given by the parliament, and the Council of Plan and Budget Commission has been forced to enforced, and the structure of political parties has been enforced according to the number of law. For the first time, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been authorized to elect seven qualified members, which constitute the majority of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Its written question, general discussion, parliamentary research and control functions continue through the parliamentary investigation. All actions and procedures of the President have been subject to legislation and judicial control, and the president and ministers have been charged with criminal responsibility. Since the executive took the vote of confidence from the nation itself, the vote of confidence and the geneorization mechanism have been removed. It is against democratic legitimacy to allow direct public-elected executives to be subjected to vote of confidence and genera through Parliament. The parliamentary system, however, has had only 3 or 4 impacts on the republic's history. With presidential decrees, it is alleged that Parliament has been stripped of its authority to legislature. The total number of articles of the presidential decrees is cited as an example, saying that the law left behind the total number of substances. Such a discovery has basically no legal and scientific aspects. In this case, they ask, "Did you find this?" The president's decision-making is a routine of the presidential system. This authority is not an unlimited and violation of law enforcement authority, and it is subject to constitutional judicial supervision. The entire number of presidential decrees is due to the restructuring of the laws of the ministry and other public administrations due to a system change in a radical management reform. For example, number 1. The presidential presidential decree is 539, 4th. The presidential decree consists of 802 articles. Only the number of these two items is 1,341. The number of decisions issued after integration regulations is not large. Dear lawmakers, there are steps that must be taken at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order for the presidential government system to be established with all its institutions and rules and the system's complementary elements to be carried out. The presidential government system must be crowned with a new and democratic constitution. Turkey has the democratic climate, political stability and determination to achieve it. For a quick, efficient, transparent, participating and quality legislative process in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, parliament must be reorganised. The development of the quality of legislation, the focus of legislation and control is on commissions, the establishment of infrastructure to analyse the impact of law proposals, the establishment of a separate commission for which certain accounts and audit reports can be discussed, and it is one of the issues we consider important and proposed in the Civil Charter study. However, resolving differences in the financial and social rights of members of the Turkish National Assembly Administration will increase efficiency and efficiency, will ensure rights. In this regard, parliamentary personnel who serve in the same titles in the same places should be granted the same rights of identity, regardless of whether they are old or new, and the practice for 4/B (B) members should be done for our staff in auxiliary services, as well as work for consultants' job guarantees and end compensation. It is our obligation that politics, whose purpose is to serve the country and the nation, be covered by moral values. In order to improve the dignity of politics, politics, and the entire state order, a parliament must be established first and foremost to act in accordance with political ethics. It is essential to balance justice in electoral systems and the principles of stability in the governance, and to redesign election laws to take into account these principles, to change the Law of Political Parties, a product of a coup period, and to make the political institution more democratic. The parliamentary immunity must be lifted by a reasonable basis that the public conscience will accept, except in certain circumstances, especially without delaying the proceedings on the allegations of discrimination, aiding and abetting terrorist organisations. Public opinion research has become an operational element. The procedure and the basis for the qualifications and qualifications of researchers and researchers should be determined, preventing public research and researchers from providing lies, false, misleading or incomplete information to manipulate, or influence public opinion. Dear MPs, the 748th Vouslat Anniversary of Mavlana, held between 7 December and 17 December in Konya, began the International Memorial Ceremony. For this occasion, I give thanks and mercy to the Lord. For ceremonies made with the theme of the time of wisdom, we are expecting everyone to come to our capital of love, peace, and tolerance. Turkey wishes the Grand National Assembly budget to be prosperous and fruitful, and I pay my respects to you and the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0062par0022	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak. Here you go, Mr. Taytak.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0063par0025	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the People's Control Agency. I salute the Veteran Assembly with love and respect. The Public Control Agency is an institution that operates on the principle of government, studies, investigates, and recommends all actions and procedures based on the rights of our people in accordance with the rights and rights of our people. As the National Movement Party, we care about the healthy functioning of this structure from our history and tradition and the rapid removal of the victims of our citizens' administration. Dear lawmakers, peace is the right of all those who say: "I am a man, like security, like freedom." Social peace can be achieved by the union of the public, the law, the administration and the nation. A strong society is built with strong family ties, a peaceful society that lasts only with family peace. The development and development of a country depends on social peace. But humanity's quest for peace is obvious. Peace must be cast into an idea and a pattern of thought; mind, heart, spirituality, and emotion must be discussed in its plan. Humanity has long been under the influence of an alarming wave of unrest. The lack of peace, the devotion of life, the joy of life, and the foundation of cooperation are deeply shaken. We have full faith that under the instructions of our President, the President of the Garden, the Artificial Peace Project, prepared by our RD presidency, will bring an important contribution to both our social peace and the presence of humanity. The National Movement Party is for peace, fighting for peace of mind. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are exposed to a new event every day, a new image, a new one, every day, every day, that everyone is in rebellion, and everyone's blood is freezing. Every day, with violence against our babies, our children, and our women, our lungs are burning with a new event. We're on our way to a world where liberty, mercy, safety is ignored. Our society is becoming consumed by fights and strife. In a society where there are individuals who do not understand each other, who persecute each other at every turn, everyone is troubled, and trust is broken, and the insecure society is overwhelmed with trials. It would be easier to ensure safety in a society that knows the concept of conscience. Like the logs that are being dragged into the flood today, our people are moving to the wrong places, and a generation of the Internet, social media, and television programs are dying spiritually on the streets of the deadlocks and on the ventilator program. In the morning-to-night news shows, in the daytime shows, to see the negative events, the news of the murder, it upsets the psychology of family members and society. We were a people who considered children to be the fruit of heaven, the relic of God, and now we see a monster father who beat his little baby to death. We see that a mother's inability to express that her baby is suffering from violence, but can't do anything, has deeply hurt all people with a conscience. We see our women torn from their young lives and loved ones. We see issues whose names have changed, but their suffering hasn't changed. There's nothing left in the soul of the Turkish nation to worry about babies the size of a hand, animals who can't talk about their problems, women who have been brutally murdered. We must be one and all together in the face of things that have no compassion, no pity, that have made your conscience a prisoner of evil. We must be the voice of compassion, the voice of conscience. Every day, under the roof of the Veterans Assembly, discussions, slang, hand-to-hand movements are a bad example for society. The political institution should not be able to divide, but to unite; to tell the truth, not the lie. But now we have an understanding in the Veterans Congress that is not even one heart against terror. We live in a time when terrorism and terrorists are legitimized and the terrorist is reflected like the peace ambassador to young people. In our country, the PKK terrorist organization has martyred our doctors, our young teachers, our trustees; villages have raided and shot babies in arsons. When it comes to terror, when it comes to terror financiers, human rights come to mind. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Through media organs, terrorists are trying to be exonerated in society. Terror is a crime committed against humanity from head to toe; a terrorist is a person who has lost human love and is covered with hate; terrorism propaganda is not freedom. In countries claimed to be democracy in England, it is forbidden to praise IRA, ISIS, Al Qaeda, Nazism, ISIS, Al Qaeda, and ETA, which was closed in Spain by the decision of the ECHR. Turkey wants freedom to promote separatist terrorism on behalf of human rights. Terrorists, authors, academics, artists and politicians who encourage terrorism are more guilty than terrorists. There is no religious or ethnic problem as is being created in this country; there is a problem with terrorism in this country. There's no peace without the problem of terrorism being solved. Who, if you wish to disrupt our unity, our unity, and our peace, will find us today and tomorrow as the National Party of Action. I'd like to finish my speech in the words of our wise leader, our President, Mr. State Gardener: none of the members of the National Movement Party, instead of adding to it, will not be one of the dynamiters, not the dynamiters. The good that is carried in the feet shall be raised up, and the evil that is carried in the embrace shall be cast out. The spread of resentments, the condensation of resentments, the distance between hearts and barriers will not help anyone, but it will make them lose. It is a sin to turn our backs on one another when we can embrace each other. It is a historical error. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all. I wish that the public audit agency's budget for 2022 would be prosperous and fruitful.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0064par0036	İstanbul MP Mr. Feti Yıldız... Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0039	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on the budgets of the Constitutional Court and the Court. Before I begin my speech, I salute the Veteran Assembly. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Honourable lawmakers face largely after World War II, due to intensive rights violations of the establishment and spread of the Constitutional Court. However, the establishment and adventure of the Constitutional Court are much different. During the Republic, the first pioneer of the Constitutional Court's idea was the great Turkist, Turanci Ziya Gökalp, who was called by St. Ataturk, my father. In the December 1922 issue of "Little Majmua," he shares with the community the idea that the Constitution shall be audited by a central judicial body. I don't feel the need to explain the reasons for the establishment here, the flat island courts, the first membership elections. The Constitutional Court is an institution that entered the Constitution of 61 following the May 27 coup. None of the European Union countries have a constitutional court institution similar to ours. There are no constitutional courts in England and the Netherlands; general courts oversee the constitution of laws in the United States. When we look at the basics of its structure, its judicial procedures, its duties and responsibilities, it examines the constitutional amendment in terms of shape and basis, it looks at whether it is contrary to the Constitution; it looks at the closure of political paws and does financial control; it determines individual applications due to the violations of rights; it judges those who are listed in the constitution as the Supreme Court; it also determines the appeals made against the rules against the removal of the immunity of the legislature; it is common last year. As you can see, the Constitutional Court makes decisions, making judgments and inspections on very important issues of different importance. Unfortunately, there is no institution to oversee the Constitutional Court when it establishes a decision against the Constitution and against its laws. This gap is sometimes tried to be filled into the absence institution because of local courts' accession, but it is not a healthy way to do so. The Constitutional Court's decisions can be discussed, scientifically criticised, but these decisions are final; they bind the law, the administration, the judiciary, the administration, everyone. Members of parliament, the Constitutional Court's function in individual applications is limited to making a right violation decision. The mandate for the outcome of the decision belongs to other constitutional institutions. In the event of a violation of rights, the Constitutional Court's authority is only to send the ruling to the competent court and to rule out what is necessary to eliminate its results, but unfortunately, we often see that our application is out of the question. So what I'm saying is that the Constitutional Court can't control its position, it can't decide whether it's administrative action or action. If there is no legal benefit for a retrial, the appeal will rule out compensation for the appeal, or it will lead to a renewed trial. But what we see is that in the study of his arrest, there is a formal assessment of evidence, which is an overstepping of his authority to us. He can't make a firm assessment of evidence in accordance with the law during the individual application examination, including unjust imprisonment claims. But again, we see a lot in practice, the Constitutional Court is meeting, sharing a positive or negative decision on a decision with the public without a justified verdict being written, without a rational verdict being made. This is a violation of the institution's law and our Constitution, and he must immediately give up. The Constitutional Court must be addressed by its verdicts. Dear friends, democracy is essential, of course, a separation of forces. But these forces do not always violate separation by the executives. I'll give you an example or two here. So judicial activism sometimes arises with the activation of the legislature, sometimes by cancelling the legislative decisions, sometimes by replacing the legislature. With some of the Supreme Court's decisions, some of its members have been known to side with current politics. Again, if this court is constantly deciding against the decisions of the people that they have chosen, it is not the rule of the nation, but it is the rule of judges, and it is fundamentally not the court's democratic legitimacy to enact the rule of law. Decisions that have resulted in the fact that the Constitutional Court is in some sense a partner in law enforcement, are also seen outside our country, an important issue of democracy, and should be discussed in the Gazi Parliament. We can't always go one step further by repeating the same thing, just repeating ourselves. The matter of the law norm, the matter of the court, is not a matter of judgment, it is a matter of will and power; it must not be forgotten, and it belongs to the elected representatives of the nation. In some decisions, the Constitutional Court falls into the position of a court of lawmaking from the bench, which has ruled over the elected bodies. Dear lawmakers, it is not a matter to be accepted if they decide by comment or above the authority of the law. Dear lawmakers -- for economic use of the race -- I would like to mention a few of the Constitutional Court's decisions: As you know, the Republican People's Party has ruled that some articles of the State of Emergency Act, issued on November 8, 2016, after the July 15 coup attempt. In this decision, July 15th ruled that the legal, administrative, financial responsibility of public officials, who have ruled and carried out their duties under the judicial and administrative decree in the suppression of the treacherous coup attempt, is due to legal, administrative, financial responsibility. The Republican People's Party applied, but refused to accept criminal responsibility. Following the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, civil servants who signed important decisions in the fight against ا have been brought to the door of compensation and promissory lawsuits. I mean, you can go out and take the entire speech to the establishment of the Constitutional Court, and... it's a very exemplary attitude, and it's an exemplary decision, and unfortunately, in our society, it's been undisputed. So instead of applauding the service of people who protect the country, make all kinds of sacrifices, add their nights to their day, and tariffs, there was a trial for them. The Constitutional Court received 330,324 applications from 2012 to today, and 276,000 of them were also settled. Dear friends, the matter of law is solved like math -- there are fellow lawyers here -- so in the same case, the same results come out. In similar cases, similar results are the rule of law. But we're looking at individual applications, based on the title of the applicants, which have been handled according to the specifics of the case and concluded very quickly. I know we didn't get answers to our applications in three years, four years, but unfortunately, if you're a member of an organization, if you're a member of an organization, your case comes up in 15 or 20 days, and then we come up here and we're talking about publicism, equality, freedom. Congressmans, as you know, the Constitutional Court also has a criminal court duty to judge the persons written in the Constitutional Court as the Supreme Court. How can a court of those who have not studied law more than half or half of them, who have never been a judge in their life, judge him as the Supreme Court? So in order to solve all of these problems, the National Movement Party has drawn up a 100-point constitution and shared its general principles with our nation. Here, the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court will be held under the name of the Supreme Court. Again, I don't want to repeat the closed political party cases here, until 1924, when Terakkiperver came from Republic Firka to Farmer's Party, the Islamic Party, the Council of Ministers, the Criminal Court, the martial law courts, and the courts have closed the case, but since 1966, the Constitutional Court has been appointed. Dear friends, there are more than 120 political parties in our country today. Are these parties needed or not? Whichever one you ask, I will give the best service to the Aziz Turkish nation. He's almost starting an early political party. We know what they're all about, and we call them "barter parties" in general. They have no other duty but to corrupt democracy. Dear friends, I'd like to share a few headlines from the National Movement Party's constitution. You know, the initial part determines the basic philosophy of the constitution. Again, this constitution proposal, which consists of four parts, 100 articles, was entered with the motto of the Turkish nation, which had come into existence with the grace of God, the spirit of brotherhood, and the love of homeland. (MHP and AK PARTY) The state's shape and attributes have been dealt with in Article 1, which cannot be changed, cannot be proposed. The restrictions on all rights-setting substances have been removed. The scope of basic rights and freedoms is based on the law, based on the Convention on Human Rights, which we are part of. Again, the task of securing national unity for the legislature, the institutionalized presidential system for the administration, has been brought forward to the understanding of independent and neutral structure for the judiciary. In this scope, parliamentary immunity has been redesigned, has been acting as intermediary with the Speaker, the election of the president and his two vice presidents, and the implementation of the presidential cabinet's programme has been established, which means a new status has been restored. The university state structure, especially I say here - is clearly included in the constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you could just...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0066par0054	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0055	I mean, we don't make politics out of insulting ourselves with gestures like this, as a nationalist movement party. We'll go out, we'll make the law, we'll make the constitution, and I'll take your liberty.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0066par0057	Now, Mr. Orator, I'll meet your request, but it's not right for you to tell me the reason for your request. I'm also here to meet the friends' commitment demands.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0067par0058	We can talk, we're in Congress.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0059	Watch it with your hands... Why did you take it, Mayor?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0068par0060	It's not right for you to interfere, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0069par0061	I don't, I don't...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0062	I don't do hand-to-hand moves, I don't do polemics, I don't argue with anyone.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0069par0063	I'd like to request your...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0064	I said, "Excuse me, give me two minutes."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0069par0065	I mean, I'm gonna give it to you anyway, but I don't understand why you're making a request like that, and that's how you're explaining it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0066	Why were you taken from this?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0069par0067	I didn't tell any of my friends...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0068	Why were you taken from this? So that's what happened here, isn't it?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0069par0069	Yes, one moment... complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0070	All right, let's get this on the record. Friends, imperialism, Greek islands, Syria... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Did you turn on my mic, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0070par0074	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0075	Imperialism has set up hundreds of military bases in the Greek islands, Syria, Iraq, Thrace borders, the PKK/YPG has granted $170m to arm armies, the White House has hosted the terrorist ringleader, Greece has submitted the Eastern Mediterranean bill to the Senate that Greece wanted, and Prime Consul Kemal Arikan has tried to defeat the last operation that killed our militant ASALA militant Sasunyan, and has sent to Armenia (Applause from the ranks of MHP). (Applause) [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The terrorism of imperialism and collaborators did not work, and that will be the plan. And while I salute you all, I wish our budget to our nation's best.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0070par0079	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0065par0080	I'm amazed that you were taken directly by my words, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0070par0082	Come in, please...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0071par0083	Mr. President, I'm not...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0070par0084	Mr. Group Vice Presidents, you know, at the end of the tour, I'll give you my word if you ask.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0071par0085	We didn't make that decision, but... we didn't make that decision as a group.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0072par0086	We took it, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0070par0087	Yeah, yeah. At the end of the tour...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0072par0088	We've got him as Acting Speakers of Congress.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0070par0089	Your Honor, if I may...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0073par0090	Well, you should have told us. I mean, we don't know about this, we don't know about this... at least...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0070par0091	Yes, to the Deputy Directors of the Group... Yeah, we're moving on. Mr. Abdurrahman, MP of Antalya. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0074par0096	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group on the budget of 2022, under the budget of the Gazi Parliament's valued MPs; the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Energy Market Editing Institution, Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency, the Mine Research and Research General Directorate and the Director General of Mines and Petroleum Affairs. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the saintly Turkish nation who watches over us on television. Energy -- one of the fundamental dynamics of growth, development, being a developed country -- is an important entry that we can't provide with our own resources and have to import. The demand for energy has increased in parallel with population growth, industrialisation, urbanization and technological developments. This makes it necessary for us as a country to establish a national energy policy within the framework of a long-term energy strategy. The main goal of our country's energy policy is that energy is provided in its time, given sufficient, reliable, competitive prices, and environmental impacts, in order to carry out economic growth and regulate social development. As it turns out, it shapes our country's energy policies to ensure energy supply security and gain advantage in the energy market. The technological developments in the world, the changes in raw materials and oil prices, the transition to renewable energy and gas-based policies also show how dynamic and open the energy sector is to development. Dear lawmakers, the year 2021 has been a year of exciting developments in our country regarding energy. A large amount of natural gas reserves detected in the Danube Basin in the Black Sea last June have a significance that will redefine our country's national energy and mining policy. Our country, which imports about $40 billion per year, provides the gas and oil it needs through pipelines from Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran, and from Algeria as liquidated natural gas. This causes both a serious economic cost and political dependency. Given that Turkey's external dependence on oil and natural gas is one of the most important pencils in Turkey's foreign trade deficit, I have every reason to believe that the 540 billion cubic metres of gas discovered in the Black Sea as a result of a deep sea drilling ship, will add power to Turkey's natural gas production in the coming period, which will reduce its imports, but will soon join our fleet in this area. The Ertugrul Gazi, the first ship registered to Turkish naval records by BOTAS, was brought into our country on 22 April 2021, and was launched on 25 June 2021 in Hatay's Fourways district. An important project for our country was completed on February 10, 2017, after the first phase of the Salt Lake underground Natural Gas Storage Facility was completed. The current storage capacity is 1 billion cubic metres and the recycling capacity will eventually be 5.4 billion cubic metres and 80 million cubic metres per day when the project is completed in 2023. The drilling and seismic research vessel is intended to use natural gas, which has been discovered by our fleet as a result of our work with all domestic equipment and personnel. In this way, major steps will be taken at the facility of national development and independence. On this occasion, I'd like to thank everyone who's involved in taking these important steps, especially our Minister of Energy, Mr. Conqueror and his colleagues. Dear lawmakers also create one of the most important steps in reducing external dependence in energy. The MHP is a political movement that has always been positive for nuclear energy and invoking uninterrupted development of nuclear energy in election declarations. Our late Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkesh, put 30,000 liras in the budget for nuclear research in 1961. The deceased Alparslan has been one of the most important and exciting goals of the country's academic community and the country's national staff, which began with Turkesh. Nuclear power plants are subject to debate with the danger of security, but are seen to be important for uninterrupted, zero-carbon production. According to World Nuclear Union data, the total power of 443 nuclear reactors operating in 33 countries around 400,000 megawatts is covered by nuclear energy, about 10 per cent of the world's electricity production through these plants. Under the agreement signed with Russia in 2010, our country continues its construction of a nuclear plant in Akkuyu, which will have a total of 4,800 megawatts. Turkey's power in nuclear power is planned to be increased to about 10,000 megawatts, with the second plant planned to be built in Sinop. Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, import dependency has been the fundamental driving force behind the creation and implementation of new policy and investment models to activate local and renewable energy sources. The use of this potential in our country, with significant renewable energy potential, has increased greatly over the past decade. With investments and technological advances in renewable energy, the consumption rates of this energy, as we can call it, are increasing. In the 2000s, when our country was involved in global renewable energy statistics, it was ranked as the fifth in Europe, the 12th in the world, with the total power of the renewable energy board that we have today. Turkey's renewable energy capacity is expected to grow 53 per cent by the end of 2026, with a 26 gigawatt increase; 48 per cent of this growth is expected to be provided from the sun and 30 per cent from wind energy. Turkey will be the fifth and 12th country in the world, which increased its renewable energy capacity in Europe during the 2021-2026 period. Renewable energy investments will play an important role in fighting climate change and reducing Turkey's dependence on imported fossil fuels. As part of the Paris Agreement, Turkey has pledged to create 26 gigawatt capacities in the wind and the sun by 2030. Turkey achieves its goal four years in the wind, seven in the sun, and has much more potential. Dear President, precious MPs, energy supply security is also an important issue. The International Energy Agency defines energy supply security that energy sources can be achieved without interruption at a buyable price. According to the International Energy Agency, energy supply security has many dimensions. In the long term, supply security is basically investments to provide energy supplies in line with economic development and environmental needs. The TANAP project, known as the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline, was founded on 17 March 2015, and the part of the project, from the Georgia-Turkey border to the Eskişehir point of origin, was completed with the opening ceremony on 12/6/2018, with a European connection on 1 and 30/11/2019. As part of the TANAP project, the first gas delivery to our country began in June 2018, and also meets an important part of Europe's need for gas. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, Turkey's Institute for Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research (TENMAK) and the National Institute for Atomic Energy, the National Bor Research Institute and the Rare Earth Elements Research Institute have been closed and the works conducted under the rule of TENMAK. The Institute for Nuclear Energy Research (NUKEN), the Bor Research Institute (BOREN), the National Institute for Earth Elements Research (NATEN), the Institute for Energy Research (ENAREN) and the Institute for Clean Energy Research (TEMEN) are intended to ensure more efficient, efficient and economic operations under one roof, while energy, nuclear and resilience activities are being implemented. In addition, studies are being carried out by Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mineral Research Agency in co-operation with the International Energy Agency and the OECD-based Nuclear Energy Agency on peaceful use of nuclear energy. On the other hand, as part of our joint membership in our country's European Nuclear Research Centre (CERN) in 2015, TENMAK co-ordinates activities in our country, provides financial support for our work in our country, and represents our country in CERN work. Our country is also one of the founders of the Middle East Sinkrotron Light Experimental Science and Applications International Centre (SESAME). Mining is of great importance to the development of our country and our nation. Turkey's labour, perlit, trena, pomza, bentonite, profilite, feldspat, zeolit, barit, magnet, chromium, linite, jips, marble and cement raw materials have reached 59.2 billion dollars in domestic revenues in 2019, while the mining sector with the largest deposits in the world has reached $59.2 billion in 2020. The processed mining exports have also contributed greatly to that. We are pleased to see that the steps taken in the mining sector bring lasting benefits to the country's economy. In the mining industry, the main goal is domestication of the technology in Turkey and enriching the mines and reducing imports. In this framework, our mining export was $4.3 billion in 2020, and by the end of October 2021, it exceeded $4.9 billion, so we did our exports in the first nine months of last year. In Borgen mining, the value of adding boron minerals, which are extremely important in terms of national defence and foreign markets in the process of transitioning to the production of boron chemicals, has been established on 25/10/2019 by the foundation of the Bor Karbür Production Facility, and is planned to be completed in the first half of 2022. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs have expressed the framework of our party's energy strategy and policies in our 2018 election declaration: ▪ Maximum assessment of coal and renewable energy sources to reduce external dependence on energy raw materials Enhancing supply security with the diversity of resources and resources in energy imports, The rapid completion of nuclear power plant projects, An effective demand management and the continuous and adequate implementation of energy supply, With a friendly and sensitive understanding of the environment, with an approach based on advanced waste control and disposal, basin and resource planning, the production of energy without harming the environment and human health, Energy efficiency is supported by powerful and diversified financial means in all areas from production to consumption. Reaching the capacity to produce new energy technologies, Ending competitive practices in the energy sector. As it turns out, we have an election declaration and an energy policy in line with our party policies. I want to express here that as long as our energy supply security, these policies on our independence continue, we will support those policies. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I end my words, I salute our Veteran Assembly, our esteemed MPs, and the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their television, once again with respect and love.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0075par0121	It's up to Mr. Saffet Sandzak.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0076par0122	Mr. President, the ministers can't applaud the bureaucrats coming in, which means there's quite a decision here by the House, by the Diva; let me present the decision, and it's in front of them. So they shouldn't be involved in these discussions, so here's the protocol we've been given as the Court.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0075par0123	Yes, I understand, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0076par0124	So you'd better warn me, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0075par0125	Yes, Mr. Tanal, understood.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0076par0126	And I apologize to the secretary. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0075par0127	Here you go, Mr. Sandzak.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0077par0129	Mr. President, I salute all of you, my fellow congressmen and the great Turkish nation who watch us at the head of television. We have two very valuable ministers, and you're welcome. Now I want to talk about two or three things, as long as I can. Number one, this is about sports law. In fact, two years ago, Mr. Secretary of State and the Department of Youth Sports had made serious preparations for the sports law, but it was a little late due to this pandemic. We have a serious contribution to this law, and we want it out as soon as possible, but it's a little late for reasons we don't have. The latest situation, as far as I know, is that after the budget, we'll bring this law to the General Assembly and hopefully we'll get it unanimous because it's not a political study, it's a political issue, because it's the future of Turkish sports. Now, there are four or five points I'd like to share with you about this law, short. Why do we want to get this law out, why does this law have to come out? In first place, the clubs are badly run. How do you run it? He spends as much money as he wants, no one gets involved, no responsibility, they take the clubs into debt, and then they leave. Let me give you some numbers. May 31, 2021 -- about six months ago, Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş and Tripolipor owed 17 billion 380 million -- 17.5 billion on May 31st. What happened after May 31? Two important things happened. One, transfers have been made. Mashallah, the clubs bought eight to ten players, not in this money. And after this increase in courtship, it's estimated that the debt of four major clubs has come to $25 billion. Well, if you think about the annual interest of 25 billion dollars, what does the interest of twenty-five billion per year do, more or less, at 20 percent? ▪ 5 billion liras. I mean, clubs don't have that kind of income anyway, so they can pay that $5 billion. How did these debts come about? He spent as much as anyone wanted to spend, and then he left, and then he ended up in the clubs. That's one. What's going to happen in this law? In one article, it says that the presidents of the club and executives are responsible for the period in which they are present, responsible for the debt. So here it is, the $10 million club owes money, three years as managers, up to 100 million. Come on, I'm going; they're going to pay 90 million out of your pocket. For him, this clause in the law is very important. The second one is always running the sport outside the sport. As we speak, we are in a righteous service. There will be at least two major athletes on the board of all the federations, so these national athletes will now be under the management of sports, at least two. As far as I know, there are 10-12 people, which means at least 20 percent of those major athletes are going to be managers. Third, one of the ingredients is that the clubs will be able to come to investors, so the clubs will have a little bit more corporateization, so that if a businessman's logic manages them, they won't suffer financially. Another one: inspection. Unfortunately, our clubs weren't well controlled, and since they weren't well supervised, they were acting as they wanted. At the moment, several mechanisms, the control mechanisms will be activated and the clubs will be seriously inspected. There's another good substance. We're always complaining that a lot of people, a lot of businessmen, a lot of illegitimate men, come into the sport and clean themselves up. In one article, many crimes have been written, and those who commit these crimes will not be able to manage any sports majors, any federation, for the rest of their lives. For example, if I say one of the crimes is to mix the tender with corruption, you know what I mean. Now, of course, when we tell them, they say, "If you do this, you won't find a manager." How can we not find one? So we're not going to find a thousand honest, honorable, honorable, know-it-all men in Turkey in 85 million? Of course we will, but this is their scam. If we go, Turkish football will be like this, Turkish sports will be like this. I have bad news for you: after this law is passed, I'm guessing that 80 percent of you, 90 percent of you will already go. Now, I'd like to talk to you about a second subject... Oh, of course, with regard to this law, our Minister and his team have a very serious work to do, and we owe him a thank you. I thank him and his team, and you brought it here, and hopefully we'll go out together, and you'll go down in history because it came out in your time. There's a second thing, and I'm guessing when I say it, I'm gonna get a nice round of applause. Now, of course, we had a dream to build the Turkish world, to rule the world. Thank God the Society of the Turkish States has been established. When this Organization of the Turkish States is established... (Applause from MHP and AK PARTY) I'll get the big round of applause in a moment, when I explain. The Organization of the Turkish States was founded, what happened? This agency will bring the Turkish states closer and stronger economically, culturally, sociologically. Yeah, that's where we came up with what we were thinking, what we were thinking. The Turkish world olympics are friends.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0078par0141	Turan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0077par0142	I guess everyone will say yes to that, too. What will we gain from these Turkish world Olympics? We have 5,000 years of horse sports, but they're nowhere in these modern Olympics, and they're not recognized in many parts of the world. For example, there's wrestling, oil wrestling, absorption, belt, shawl. For example, there's javelin, javelin on a horse. People would love it at the Olympics, but they don't know it. For example, there's fun, there's horse archery, there's rahvan racing, there's swordplay. These are our 5,000-year-old horse sports. Here, we can take our horse sports, which is part of our national values, into the next generation through sporting activity, and we can teach it to the world. It's not just in the Turkish world, I think it's going to make noise all over the world, and after they're watched, maybe some of them will compete in the modern Olympics, and the world will recognize these sports. So we have this desire, we have this desire, we have this idea, I guess this is our common idea, hopefully we'll see today, the Turkish world Olympics. Now, of course, there's a quick third thing. After I've finished this sports law, I've told you before, and I'm going to tell you again, and I'm going to tell you the rest, and I think we have to implement this project. What is this project? It's a vision project from the nationalist movement party. In short, as much time as I can, there's 34 percent obesity in Turkey now, and there's a 31% overweight struggle. So 65 per cent of the people in Turkey, including the Parliament, are either obese or overweighting. So, what does this bring? He's bringing in a sick community. There's no one here who doesn't have a disease. And that's why we don't have sports culture. Of course, there are many other reasons for nutrition, but we don't have sports culture. If we, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, can pass a law before it closes now, it will be a good move, and we will be able to raise a strong generation that will bring up Turkey's next generation. What is this project? According to the physique of a six-year-old boy, he will be given a sports major according to his family's sports structure, according to his wishes. There'll also be an artistic major, and he'll be working out for at least five hours a week, doing art. He'll be playing in the inter-school competitions on the weekends. A kid who finished high school will have done 12 years of sports and art. If we put five more years on it, a 23-year-old boy would have done sports and art for sixteen, seventeen, eighteen years. So, our Group President explained here yesterday that one of the largest budgets in Turkey is spent on the Ministry of Health; there are thousands of hospitals, modern hospitals, we spend so much money on drugs. Every hospital you go to has a tail. It means we're a sick society. Well, if we keep this up, we're 65 percent, 10 percent, 70 percent, 20 percent after 20 years, 80 percent after 40 years, 50 years later, 100 percent obese, struggling with diseases. Well, how are we supposed to do that? We're going to launch this project together, the Ministry of National Education, the Department of Sports and the Ministry of Health. Well, imagine a person who's worked out 17 years of 23 years, 18 years of exercise, continuing to work out in his next life? It'll go on and on.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0079par0145	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0077par0146	Well, does a generation of athletes get sick? No, he won't. So, are we going to need all these hospitals, all these medications, all these medical expenses? Of course, it won't be necessary, it'll be less than half. So what happens if we move back to the Ministry of Health, to the Ministry of National Education and Sports, the extra budget that we've spent on it, wasted on it, because of the diseases? I'll tell you what, once we have a sports culture, then it'll go on for life, one generation will change. So in 15 to 20 years, we're going to be raising a healthy generation of sports, art, solid-headed, solid-body people. Sure, so what? It's gonna be a teenager who's out of drugs and other bad habits. What's it gonna be? It will be a healthy generation both spiritually and physically. What's it gonna be? We're telling you, national teams don't have players, they don't have infrastructure players. Here's a million infrastructure players. The good ones will go to national teams...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0079par0149	Captain, he was short a minute, a friend of ours, and I'm giving it to you because it concerns all of us.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0077par0150	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0079par0151	One minute, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0077par0153	Thank you. The players don't keep up with our national teams. It doesn't grow, unless you plant something in the field, and then you wait for something to come out of it. You're gonna plant a crop there, you're gonna plant a seed, you're gonna sprout a seed, you're gonna plant fertilizer, and you're gonna water it so you can get a yield. We don't do that. Here's a project that makes millions of young athletes, art makers. The most skilled among them will go to national teams, and the most artisticly skilled will continue their art, contributing to Turkey's sport and art. And who are we gonna do this with? There are teachers in all these schools? Guys, there are over 60,000 BESYO graduates available right now. They're capable of doing all that. Teachers have been trained for this, and from now on they will have found a job and will be contributing to the new generation to raise the new generation. I'm out of time for now. Thank you for listening to me, and I'll tell you more when there's time. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0080par0159	Yes, Mr. Olcay Pilot, the last speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Pilot.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0081par0162	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. Turkey is a country of high importance with its young population. At this point, the best assessment of Turkish youth's energy and potential, increasing investments and policies towards Turkish youth, crowning Turkish youth's mission, vision and goals with victories would be a serious gain for the Turkish country and the Turkish nation. It must not be forgotten that the end of countries that do not invest in youth is frustration. Turkey has signed successful work with its multi-directional activities at sports infrastructure, sports installations, athletic talent screenings, national athletic scholarships, youth and sports training centres. The most medals and most sports majors we've ever won were the Olympics of the Tokyo 2020 firsts. In our country, which has the potential for sports tourism through historical and cultural infrastructure, the Cudi Tennis Tournament, the Diyarbakır Athletics Championship, the Turkish Futsal League Championship in Turkey, the Zap Water rafting in Zap Water, the events such as skis and water sports in the region and our country are quite joyful and proud. Because of the work our Ministry of Youth and Sports has done for Turkish youth and Turkish sports, I would like to thank and congratulate our nation's national athletes, who have successfully represented our country in all ministry employees and international organizations, who have raised our flag with dignity and pride and continued their success. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the architect and host of the future of Turkish youth, the light of the Turkish nation, the honorable bearer of the Turkish flag. Turkish youth is a hero who is proud to say that he is a happy Turk, who finds the power he needs in his veins in noble blood, who is the guardian of the Turkish will and republic. Maintaining Turkish youth against any destructive influence of cultural imperialism should be the basis of our youth policy at the time when we feed on Turkish culture and civilization, to bring it together with history, to combine it with national and spiritual values, to strengthen the national identity of individuals without identity and personality. In youth-based studies, NGOs with the same goals are also of great importance. To the Turkish youth, the country, the nation, the state, the flag, and the holy love of the Ottoman Khan, Sultan Alparslana, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk of Fatih Sultan Mehmet Khan, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (e.g. Ahmet Yesevi, Haci Bektas Veli, who understands the meaning of the great Turkish dignitaries, to İmam Maturidi of Abu Hanife, to Itri, to Sheikh Galip, to Itri, from Fuzuli. My hope is in the youth of Gazi Ataturk. Based on his promise, our Basbug, Alparslan Türkeshin, our meeting place is neither east nor west nor south, and our meeting place is the great Turkey. Our meeting point is the head of Turk, the heart of Turk, the ore of Turan. I present to the leader, Mr. State Gardener Beyin, a youth who guides his word, who goes from education to culture, his own values, his own values, his beliefs, his spirit structure, his non-violent, his non-disputed, his non-responsive, his own self-obsessed work, to the head of the President of the President of the Republic, to the Turan nation, to Ilamelimullah. Long live the Ülkü Januarys. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the games, traps and perception management of Turkish youth continue. It is our primary duty to fight against black propaganda, which claims that Turkish youth has become an atheist, and that it has become an atheist, and that understandings in the dark, which divides Turkish youth into generations of political benefits, exploiting its problems and exploiting its policies. In addition to this, the efforts of Turkish youth to position this homeland on economic factors are a very dangerous game in street interviews. To expect the children of this noble nation, who donated one of its two socks to Kuvaimilli, to write the epics of sacrifice and sacrifice, to change their love for this country and this nation, to exchange its belonging and its privacy for money, to raise toxic questions to the Turkish youth. Turkish youth is not just an economic entity with a material gain; it is a fortress of determination, courage, and faith that will lead Turkey to its goals. You know that the country that has no owner has the right to go down. If you have this country, it will not sink. The Turkish youth will not fulfill its dreams in other countries, even if it is on the other side of the world; the mind, soul, and heart will be thrown out with this nation. We didn't find Turkish youth on the street, we won't lose it on the street. The successful fight against drug and substance abuse, which poisons our young people, because it's the largest financial resource of terrorist organizations that we call the scourge and scourge of the century, should be carried on with the cooperation of the state, nation, family and civil society, the spirit of mobilisation, and a serious and comprehensive action plan should be carried out in results. From here, the hypocrisy of terror and terrorists is clear as day from the fight against drugs. Turkish youth should most be protected from the spokesmen of these terrorists. It is vital to make attempts to remove TV shows and competition programmes that have negative effects on youth, to block ads on video-sharing sites that encourage gambling, bet, and all immoral attitudes and behavior, to oversee social media platforms, especially to end scandals in some applications, to take precautions against computer games that trigger violence through cell phone and internet addiction. In addition, it is imperative that scholarships and student loans be arranged in a way that answers the needs, that interest be removed in the repayment of student loans with absolute certainty. It is our expectation that students will spend time in student dorms to increase cultural, artistic and sporting activities, to attract dorm fees to symbolic levels, to be given free education checks only to be used for education and cultural spending. It is important to maintain traditional Turkish sports games with Turkish noble states, to create and promote youth camps that will cover the youth of the Turkish world. Finally, my constituency, Mersin, continues to host international organisations in the future as well as in the past, and we expect to continue our work on sports city and sports tourism. In addition, in Anamur, Gülnar, Aydıncık, Bozyaz, Mut'ta, Silifke, Erdemli, Mezitli, Yenişehir, Mediterranean, Toros, Tarsus and Çamilia, we need to build sports facilities and youth centres. Let the earth be ashamed if it doesn't run out! Shame on the spear that doesn't reach the target! Hey, Küheylan, why don't you run! If you crack, let her who gives birth be ashamed! The Ministry of Youth and Sports wishes that our budget be good for our country, for our nation, for our state, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0082par0177	The nationalist movement group's demands have been met. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0083par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the speakers of the AYM, a character, in particular, Mr. Fethi Star, I believe, have had long evaluations. These evaluations, of course, are very familiar to us, because the president of the MHP has had a lot of explanations for the Constitutional Court, especially in recent months. I'd like to give an example of a few of them: αAYM has become such that wherever there is a traitor, a marauder, it's next to them. They take our lives and take our money. Should the AYM not close and become a sponge in the fight against terrorism? The gardener said it. Now, another thing, another day of the same words: AYM has become so treacherous that wherever there are those who are active to dig Turkey's well, there are those who are side by side with them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0084par0183	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0083par0184	I'd like to ask you, neat...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0084par0185	Mr. Beştaş, can I...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0085par0186	Your speakers... they don't have that kind of polemic.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0083par0187	..the one standing by the point of the ironstone.....
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0084par0188	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0083par0189	The Sorosian is a court located next to the trial.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0086par0190	President, you said one minute.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0083par0191	Is the right and the law's reputation lost so that the law doesn't close?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0086par0192	Mr. President, aren't we going to say what we think? We said it on the stand. The speakers...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0087par0193	Mr. Erkan...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0083par0194	I'll tell you from the stand, Mayor, it's okay, I can tell you from the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0088par0195	He keeps talking.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0089par0196	There's no such thing in the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0090par0197	Mr. Beştaş, complete.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0089par0198	Is that the procedure in the budget, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0091par0199	Again, the Peoples' Democratic Party regarding the closing of our party... I don't understand, didn't you say that? Yeah, I don't know what you're denying, really.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0090par0200	Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0091par0201	Can't we give our opinion?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0090par0202	Mr. Beştaş, your opinion is on the stand... and now it's your turn and your orator will speak for it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0091par0203	No, President, I'm acting Group Vice President, making an assessment on behalf of HDP at the end of the group, expressing an opinion, President. You said it was a deal, and I'm explaining it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0090par0204	Now, Mr. Beştaş... Mr. Beştaş, there is no such procedure. There's no evaluation for your group, no teasing your group... look, at the end of the tour...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0092par0205	He's making fun of me. He talks like he's being bullied. There's no such thing, no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0091par0206	I don't want to...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0090par0207	If you'll excuse me, if there's some bullying at the end of the tour about your group, you can answer this taunt, but at the end of the group.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0091par0208	There is, President, there is.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0093par0209	What a tease! Don't pick on me!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0091par0210	I'll tell you how to pick on me, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0094par0211	No, sir, the National Movement Party on the Constitutional Court has announced its group's opinion. Now, it's your turn to explain it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0095par0212	The Constitution... one minute, one minute... we told the president, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) that he's going to defend us, and they've taken him? Is that what we're saying to the PKK?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0094par0213	Mr. Star, please sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0096par0214	He's still teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0097par0215	Mr. President, in his words right now, he's making strong accusations and insults, let alone taunting you, and I want to speak of the bench.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0098par0216	Mr. President, there is no such thing!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0099par0217	Mr. Beştaş, there's no insult I've ever heard, and there's no accusation about you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0097par0218	Of course! What do you mean, they gave him the right to defend himself in the name of the PKK?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0098par0219	He's terrorizing the coven.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0097par0220	There's no bullying here?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0100par0221	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0097par0222	He can't insult me like that!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0101par0223	Who's insulting you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0102par0224	What insult?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0103par0225	I'm sorry, what did he insult? I don't understand.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0226	Haven't you heard?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0105par0227	I don't suppose you heard.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0103par0228	No.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0229	Did they give him the job to defend him, he said. Did the PKK give him the right to defend himself?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0106par0230	Give me your answer from here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0231	What if something like this happens?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0232	Okay, I'm gonna take care of the transcripts, and if there's any insult to you, I'm gonna promise you from the stand. Yes, we'll continue the negotiations.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0233	On the stand...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0108par0234	What the hell!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0235	I'll look at the reports, I didn't hear the word.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0236	Mr. President, then let me finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0108par0237	No...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0238	Mr. Beştaş, we don't have an assessment of another group's speech. If there's a tease, I promise you that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0239	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0240	I'll take a look at the records and promise you if there's a pick-me-up.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0241	Mr. President! Please! You've been talking all the time! There's no such procedure! There's no such procedure!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0109par0242	There's no style like you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0243	Well, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I'll meet your demands, your demands.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0244	There's no such procedure! Please excuse me, I'll give you the pick-me-up line.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0245	Please, have a seat. First speaker...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0247	I'm going to say the word "bullshit," Mayor! I'm going to say the "bullshit" line, please!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0248	Mr. Beştaş! Again...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0249	Mr. President, you're not being democratic right now.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0250	I'm being very democratic.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0251	You're being biased!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0252	I'll take a look at the records.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0254	You're being biased right now!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0255	No, I'm not. I couldn't hear it because I couldn't hear it over the noise.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0256	I'm telling you, I'm going to read from here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0257	Mr. Beştaş, I'd like to take a look at my reports.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0258	I'll read it, I'll read it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0259	I can't decide if a sentence I haven't heard is true, I'm going to look at the transcripts, and I'm going to decide if you're right.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0260	Your job is to listen to the speakers speak and determine if there is a word for us.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0261	Yes, I know my duty, and don't teach me my duty, please, I couldn't hear it because of you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0110par0262	President, let's move on.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0263	It means I didn't hear it without listening. There's no way.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0264	Mr. Beştaş, I didn't hear. And I say, "I'll look at the transcripts, I'll assess your request, I'll promise if there's any bullying." Is there any other way?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0265	And I'm saying I wrote down the character's speech, and I'm saying I have it with me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0107par0266	Yeah, we're moving on.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0104par0267	We're protesting this. This approach is a biased approach, aimed at protecting another party.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0111par0268	We're protesting you, too.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0112par0269	No one needs protection, the MHP protects itself.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0113par0270	I think my behavior is correct, and I'm acting entirely in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0114par0271	You're not acting in accordance with the Civil Code. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0115par0319	I will now meet the demands of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first statement belongs to Mr. Mahmut Toğrul. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0116par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on behalf of my party, the People's Democratic Party, I have made a pledge on the budget of the Public Control Agency in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly's beloved workers and our beloved people who are watching us on television. In other words, I salute all the chosen ones, including our co-Chairs, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ, who are holding hostages. The Turkish-type presidential system, according to power, was built on the parliamentary system, along with our one-man regime, the separation of forces was largely dysfunctional, autonomous and controlling institutions that should be an autonomous institution, the principle of dissolution of powers of law, execution and judiciary has been lifted, has been transformed into a union of forces. Look, the closest example of the removal of the principle of separation of forces and the dismantling of the legislature by the one man is the Istanbul Convention, which is legalized in this Parliament, which has been imposed in one day by one man, and unfortunately, the TBMM has not made a sound out of it, and how can you dictate a law that I have made? A whole country is run by presidential decrees. Look, with the transition to the new system, between July 2018 and 2021, 80 decrees were issued and 80 bags of legislation were passed in the 600-member parliament at the same time. Almost 80 proposals legalized by the Assembly General Assembly during the three-month period are offered bags, and are only discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission. The House's other residency commissions have been disabled and disabled somewhere, as if the Council's only commission was the Plan and Budget Commission. In our view, the concept of a bag of laws is the cunning of a law, and that understanding poses serious difficulties. Law proposals that are not discussed enough in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey commissions are contrary to general democratic principles, parliamentary customs and principles of quality legislation, which are being carried out in the Plan and Budget Commission alone. As it is known, the TBM is obliged to remove all obstacles that interfere with the democratic and free debate environment. In this regard, it is vital that the Assembly take on the role that everyone can speak freely, in order to make legal arrangements to ensure the democratic, free environment, to end the environment of oppression, democratisation and the determination of political will. However, parliament has been ineffective at many points, particularly the democratic solution to the Kurdish issue. Another important point is that Parliament has played a almost pre-empty role in lowering the surrogacy. The fact that in the last four years 13 HDP MPs have been demoted, in fact, the judiciary has been transformed into a man on legislation, converted into a stick. The same Constitutional Court, Mr. Leyla Güven and the sons of Moses Faris, have not even mentioned the selection and election of Demirtaş and HDP MPs. I mean, a part of society has the right to choose and choose, but unfortunately, the other party's will to choose and choose has been decided. Legally, the defamation of legislatures of Leyla Güven and the children of Faris by reading the final verdicts of the sons of Leyla Güven and Faris in Parliament is the abuse of the duties of the TBMM. Mr. President, the honorable MPs are a full-blown attorney of Parliament in the process of bringing our MP, Omar Faruk Gergerlioglu, who has been demoted and started a justice watch, under false record, into custody when he leaves the group room to receive an abdest. Dear friends, again, this Parliament has not claimed its own representatives in prison. At the point of the immediate release of the current patient, Mr. Aysel Tugluk, the Parliament must do its part immediately. Our deputies are still being threatened by hundreds of illegal, fictitious arguments. The Parliament, which should be the defender of the will of the people, is somehow part of the policy of political exclusion of elected representatives by bringing the law to its knees. We're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, but the Clave's not talking. The minister of criminal affairs puts custody on the will of lawmakers, casts a veil on the public, violates the passport of any member of parliament he wants, despite court decisions, and can impose a ban on MPs to leave abroad. As long as the House has followed this process of unlawful conduct from outside, approved its silence and is part of it, the House itself will also be responsible for these unlawfulities. Congressmans, the House has been stripped of its control authority. Our written motions, which are the most important control authority, are first passed through the censorship of the House, and many of our motions have been sent back on the grounds that it is a harsh and hurtful language, or on the grounds that it is personal. Those who pass it are not answered by the Ministers during their time or when they are answered by them, a link is sent, one line of answers to dozens of questions are being sent with words such as words. In the 27th Legislature, which began in June 2018, 65 per cent of the motions proposed by lawmakers remained unanswered. We'd like to ask the Speaker: Why don't you take action to increase the control authority of the House? In other news, Turkey is still a banned language in Kurdish at the Grand National Assembly. At the moment, Kurdish was not supposed to exist in the new system, and other languages were removed so that the Deputy Speaker of Parliament would not be in Kurdish, with the signature of the Deputy Speaker who was supposed to sit in parliament. Again, the New Life newspaper, known for its democratic broadcasting policy in parliament's app, has been removed from the app. When we asked, we did not like the policy of publication. Congressmans, I'm afraid this doesn't carry out its responsibility to the members of the House. Even though employees do the same work, they work in many different categories, and they all have different rights of identity, all different rights of retirement. It's not being corrected even though we've said it over and over again. Again, our fellow advisors have no social security other than their monthly salary. The consultants are terminated on December 31st because they work under contract, the contracts are renewed on January 1st, and the rights to severance pay are hereby imposed. Under the roof of the House, there is a crooked contract of employment which gives you the right to compensation. Workers in parliamentary service units are oppressed daily due to lack of personnel, and are officially subjected to labor by executives, by the arbitrary attitudes of administrators. This Parliament, so to speak, can't fix the problems of the staff here, nor can it, unfortunately, solve the problems of the country. Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words, please, regarding the Public Control Agency. We cared about the Public Control Agency, but she didn't play the part. The Public Control Agency has the right to intervene without waiting for an application, not using it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0117par0338	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0116par0339	There are hundreds of violations done by the public in the country, but thankfully, there is not a single situation that has been taken into action by the Public Control Agency. What is the role of the Public Control Agency? Isn't it about keeping an eye on the public? So, is he overseeing the public? No. If he was audited, would public institutions be so hypocritical? There's no merit in the public, there's nepotism and pull, action and activities are one of the most democratic rights, and the governors have turned the ban on action and activity into a complete joy, but unfortunately, there's not a single expression on this issue, the Society of Public Control. Mr. President, another matter that the Public Control Agency must act on is the Peace Academy. The Constitutional Court has ruled a violation of rights, the local court has been acquitted, but the State of Emergency has now refused to give them their rights after five years of suspension commission, but Public Control won't say a word to this detention committee.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0117par0342	Thank you, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0116par0343	I'm finishing, Mr. President, one last word.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0117par0344	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0116par0345	As it stands, there's no audit by the public inspector. In that case, you'll have supported public practices, injustices, violations, accomplices, and you don't deserve the budget you've been given. If you want to earn the budget you've been given, we're asking you to intervene immediately. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0117par0348	Batman MP Mehmet Rütş Tiryaki is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0118par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to make an assessment of the Constitutional Court in my speech. First of all, I salute you all. The Supreme Court has vital tasks. First, to judge the Constitutional compliance of the laws, second, as the Supreme Court, the President, the Vice President, the president and members of the higher judicial body; third, a new principle entering the Constitution; to examine individual applications made by those who think their fundamental rights and freedoms have been violated; and finally, to oversee and close political parties financially. The government is very uncomfortable with its first three powers, and I'm not going to go into their details and examples; I'm going to try to tell them more about closed cases about political parties. If you ask me, what are the most stable decisions of the Constitutional Court? The decision to close political parties in Turkey over the past 30 years is more than the decision to close parties in all Europe today from World War II. Decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights in closing parties are based on decisions related to Turkey. The key principles of the Venice Commission's decision to close the political party are based on the decision to close the party in Turkey. The main principles of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's closure of the political party were based on closing cases in Turkey. AYM is almost a symbol of stability in closing the party. The European Court of Human Rights has not decided to violate just two of the closing decisions made so far, including the decision of Herri Batasuna, and the decision to close the Welfare Party, which has been set up as an example; other than that, all decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights have been violated. The decision on the TBKP is the same; the decision on the Socialist Party is the same; the decision on the Labour Party is that all decisions on HEP, DEP, HADEP, DTP are violated. Did the European Court of Human Rights set an example for Turkey? He didn't. Close cases have been filed for almost the same reasons each time, and closings have been made for almost the same reasons. In 2008, there was even a lawsuit against Turkey's most elected political party, which alone constitutes the government. Today, just as we oppose the closures of political parties, we also oppose that day, but today, the Justice and Development Party is probably pretending to be dead fish to spite its little partner, because the EC PARTI friends don't defend democracy, they don't defend democratic values, they just want democracy for themselves. There's a very repeated claim here and elsewhere that the Batasuna has been shut down for not condemning terrorism, and the European Court of Human Rights has found it to be in accordance with the contract, so let the HDP be closed. The Spanish Supreme Court did not close Herri Batasuna because she did not condemn terrorism; it was because Herri Batasuna openly defended and encouraged violence. True or false, but that was the reason to close, and the European Court of Human Rights did not find it against the agreement of Herri Batasuna because the European Convention on Human Rights found it contrary to the values needed to be reached. As for this notion of terrorism, friends, it's a very controversial and political decision that changes from country to country, year to year. For example: Russia does not consider any organization in the world without an action against it on its own soil as a terrorist organization. Let's say Israel considers Hamas a terrorist organization, but the Justice and Development Party can invite Hamas' leaders to their own congress. Until yesterday, the United States of America has been able to sit at the table with the Taliban as a terrorist organization, or give another concrete example, since until yesterday the Justice and Development Party, which has treated the YPGs in the hospitals of the state, hosted the co-chairs of the NYD at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, today, has been able to call it the PYD. Besides, the most important thing is that you can't make up a political closure. On the 69th Article of the Constitution, where a political party is to be closed on what grounds, the Article 79, 80, 81, 82, and 83, of the Political Law. There's no reason not to condemn terrorism.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0119par0356	You say you don't condemn terrorism.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0118par0357	I'll tell you what's more dramatic: direct incentive to violence in Spain is a reason to shut down a political party, and there is no reason to close it in Turkey, but let's assume that one day in the Constitution, if promoting violence in the Political Party Act is the reason to shut down a political party, then woe to those who campaign about our party! They are the ones who directly encourage violence in this country. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Anyway, let's not get ahead of ourselves. Herri Batasuna was shut down not because she didn't condemn terrorism, but because she encouraged violence. The ECHR decision was a matter of right and wrong, a matter of discussion, but that was the reason.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0120par0360	So are you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0118par0361	So, is the HDP defending violence, or is it a party that is a victim of direct violence?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0120par0362	He advocates violence, defends PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0118par0363	Look, there's been a bomb attack on our rally by ISIS, we've lost our friends. Mersin and Adana were sent bombs to our city buildings; when we had friends in it, our election buses were burned; in broad daylight, in the middle of İzmir, in the middle of the city building, one of our friends was murdered, and when he came to the door, I cooled my heart. Why? Because power and its partners were targeting our party day and night. Hundreds of our buildings were exposed to lynching attempts, our headquarters burned down, our friends made it to the roof. Do you know what the Commissioner said when he came up with the excuse to silence those who attended the lynch shows? We understand your response, you're right; you can disperse now. So what is it? HDP was the biggest victim of violence. When it comes to condemning violence from whomever it comes, whether it's a person, an organization or a state, we've clearly taken a stand against violence in Turkey or elsewhere in the world. If anyone has any doubts about it, they can go on our website and find the answers to all your questions there. Yeah, there's been a D.A. closing case. The Constitutional Court rejected it. Do you know why the Supreme Court refused? You've only put the closing cases of HDP members, their executives, their MPs on top of each other, but you've forgotten the connection between this and the HDP. I mean, why do you want HDP to be shut down? He refused to write to the petition. On 7 June, the attorney general was renewed. By simply putting a thick sentence: "This is how many cases there are about HDP people, so they are focused, so let's file a closing case on HDP." You know what there are on the other 120 pages of the remaining 843 pages? There is no direct activity carried out by the HDP. There is no HDP in the indictment, but the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has long talked about the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK); it has even placed parliamentary dates, congressional decisions, conference dates -- the decisions made at conferences 20 years before the HDP was formed -- in which its attorneys held talks with Mr. Ocalan (HDP) years before they were formed. You think this case is a closed case against the PKK, not about the HDP. Since there is not a party set up for the Ministry of Interior, why does the Attorney General describe the PKK for so long? Because there's no other story in his saddlebag. Let alone a legal basis, the attorney general, who hasn't even developed an argument. There is an indictment, such as the Google indictment. I assure you, he sat down, downloaded the criminal records on us, and he Googled us, and he filed a lawsuit against us.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0121par0366	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0118par0367	I'm completing it, Mr. President. And then... those who joined the AKP don't know, but the founders of the AKP know that when the closing case against the AKP was launched in 2008, there was another case like this with Google scans. Finally, there's a lot of things I want to say, but what if political parties compete with each other, but they don't try to shut down because they can't politically compete, they end up in power? Despite its shortcomings, you will not have Norway, Sweden, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands, France; you will run a ball in Turkey, Kyrgyzistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan League, which is ruled by semi-device dictatorships, Asian dictatorships. I say you'll be like them when you can be a bridge to get them to Western values, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0122par0371	Şırnak MP Hasan Özgünş is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Ozbrik.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0123par0374	Dear friends, I salute everyone. I have made a commitment to the Court budget. Beyond the budget, I would like to express the Court's corruption of trustees. First, it's useful to make this determination, the trustee is a coup d'état. About 4.5 million of our people have been struck by the will. He was struck by the will of other peoples living in geography, especially the Kurdish people. A partner is a stand against the presidency. It's a blow against her will. In 2016, trustees were appointed to municipalities elected from DBP, co-chairs of 93 municipalities were arrested, trustees were appointed to 95 municipalities. Some of our presidents are still in prison; nearly 15,000 workers and officers have been exported to nearly 300. In the 2019 local elections, 48 municipalities of HDP have been appointed trustees. 142 city council members have been arrested, city buildings surrounded by panzers. The AKP took the municipalities it could not get a vote in the election by force, in a dictatorial way. The National Security Council decided in October 2014 to collapse against the fight against Kurdish citizens, freedom, identity, democracy. The trustee is a reflection of this, and the Shark Islam Plan has been updated. The trustee is also the system of corruption, rant, plunder, deception. The Court conducted investigations at Mardin Municipality. Mardin Governor Mustafa Yaman, who came with the trustee, had practically put the city up for sale and even built the graveyards. In this period, the Court has determined that millions of euros of tenders were made against the law in Mardin City. It has been identified as illegal to rent cars at $2m in the Mardin municipality, and has been auctioned out for the second time as a result of the collapse of roads made at $3352m. A new trustee has been appointed, and several documents have been reported missing in the investigations, and the CCTV footage has been deleted. During the ten months of trustees, 470 million budgets have been exhausted and 200 million liras have been borrowed. 14 executives and officers were removed from their duties and courted due to tenders, corruption, bribery, zoning irregularities. As of August 2020, Mardin Municipality's debt has been raised to $1.8 billion. The grain hub and animal market, built in Derik district for 1,366000 TL, have been thrown out due to misdemeanor planning. The contractor, Sheriff Acar, stated that a total of 3.5 million dollars was asked for bribes and gave them this. Local companies have not been tendered, and trustee municipalities have been tendered to companies based in Konya, Kopeelli, Bolu and Ankara. Why? To put the rant pipes in the AKP's pocket.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0122par0377	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0123par0378	Why are you giving it to Iconya, Ankara, when there are local companies? At Batman City Hall, Hulusi Şahin made a $500,000 plan and spend on the event, even though Ramadan bear events were banned due to Covid. The trustee has closed 43 women's centers. The woman has eliminated the co-chair, neutralized the women's institutions, shut down the women's office. Thus, the Roboski Memorial was removed, the Kurdish, Armenian, Assyrian plates were removed, the statues of Kurdish elders were removed, the Kurdish names given to the neighborhoods, to the streets... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0124par0382	Thank you, Mr. Ozcure.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0123par0383	Did you give him a minute?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0124par0384	I did, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0123par0385	My last sentence...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0124par0386	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0123par0387	The last sentence...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0124par0388	Dear Özsun, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0123par0389	Yes, my friends, my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0124par0391	In turn, Şırnak MP Nuran İmir. Here you go, Mr. Imir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0125par0394	Mr. President, before I speak, I'd like to greet all our friends and our people in prison with a great deal of love and respect. In today's speech, I will consider the Court budget. First, I would like to point out that the ruling country is run by a party state policy; from high judicial members to governors, vice presidents, vice presidents of institutions, to the governors of institutions, almost every government executive is appointed by the President alone. Again, I'd like to point out that since the Ottoman Empire, 38 Court presidents are all men, including the current President, eight department heads are all men; this is a choice. The Court, whose duty is to oversee the financial affairs of public administrations on behalf of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, is to examine whether the accounts and procedures are in accordance with the law. The Court has lost its quality, so it does not perform its duty. You've slandered many of our HDP municipalities, the funds go to the organization, the municipal resources go to other places. You said, "You can't find a single document to prove them, because they're all slanders." He inspected the property inspectors, found nothing. The Court has inspected it. He said the charges are in place. But you have appointed trustees to our municipalities based on these slanders. By your supervision, you opened false investigations against our co-chairs, creating perceptions, targeting them. So, what did your trustees do anyway? So much corruption, so much theft that the Court couldn't even ignore your trustees. Millions of corruption over the past period continue as corruption continues when trustees get away with it. I would like to share with you a few of the irregularities, corruption done by your trustees: There has been no investigation into the tens of irregularities carried out in Cizre Municipality, where HDP took over 220 million loans from the previous term, and the reassigned trustee is continuing in irregularities. Despite objections from van co-ops in Cizre, the county garage, which was used for $310,000 two years ago, was not available and was put on sale with its land. In the previous period, the Taşköpru Project, which was auctioned for 25 million TL, was again tendered by the new trustee four years later to the same company, and the later trustee cancelled the tender. After four years, three changing trustees claim to have spent 73 million dollars on the bridge. The bridge is still incomplete. Have the government's regulatory agencies launched an investigation into these irregularities? Of course not. Again, 316 immovable missing in connection with the trustee of Mardin Metropolitan Municipality. 180 immovable losses belonging to the trustee of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality. Van Metropolitan Municipality also reflected in the 2020 Court reports where the trustee used the money collected for the parking lot without purpose. So, why aren't these movers on record? Where are these movers and for what purpose are they used? No one knows but your power. In the 2020 Court reports, there have been reports of trustees appointed by municipalities, only six municipalities; where are the other trustees' reports, and only you know them. In addition, what is the reason why some municipalities, such as Şırnak, Bitlis, Ağrı, Bingol, and other trustees, have not yet published the 2020 Court reports? Who controls the Court? Is it true that the Court's reports have passed through court control? You're obliged to inform the public on this matter. Dear people, as you can see, power has turned all institutions in the country into palace farms.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0126par0399	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0125par0400	But it has to be known that the days are near when we will be able to account for the production, labor, and future of this country from those who pursue the palace. With that dignity, I would like to share the cheer and happiness of the HDP (HDP) against these corruptions, which our people insist on especially when we are on the street every day. At every opportunity, our people welcome us to HDP,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, x, x, and I say on behalf of our people from here, HDP., I salute all our people again with this determination. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0127par0404	This is İstanbul MP Ali Kenanoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kenanoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0128par0407	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I send greetings and love to all our comrades and all our lives who follow us in prisons. Also, Aysel Tugluk, I'd like to express that our lives must be evacuated immediately. I'd like to rephrase the fact that the Forensic Medical Association should stop making political decisions and do their job properly and act in the form of a physician's consciousness and ethics. Dear friends, I have made a promise on the budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Of course, this ministry contains issues that directly concern our lives. Electricity, natural gas, oil, and my knowledge of mines are at the top of these, and that's what the Ministry is about. Now, Vice President Fuat Oktay said in his presentation that we took on three-quarters of the cost of natural gas and half of its electricity as government. We've raised the power of the electric board at 87,000 megawatts to 99,000 megawatts. We raised the power plants from 6,917 to 10,262. We've raised renewable energy power to five in Europe to 12 in the world. The renewable power of 24 European countries in 2020 is greater than the total edible energy board power of 24 European countries, and they've added their fleets to help reduce external dependence in energy, he said. Now, in light of all this information, we would like to ask: Why are we the country in Europe last year that has increased electricity and natural gas prices, if electricity power has been increased from 87,000 to 99,000 megawatts, if the number of power plants has been increased from 6,000 to 10,000? Why is Turkey the European leader on this? Last year, natural gas averaged 1.7 per cent in EU countries, with prices down in some countries, including Latvia, Denmark, Greece. The highest increase was in Turkey's 24.5th, 2nd Spain, 3rd Croatia. Now, electricity prices have increased by an average of 1.3 percent in EU countries; we're looking at Turkey, 20.2 per cent in the first place; then the Netherlands, Lithuania and so on. Given the power to buy, Turkey, Romania and Germany appear in the most expensive countries in electricity prices. Now, the price of electricity and natural gas has been raised in Turkey in the last three years, and when we look at it, we see about 122% increase. In natural gas, the most recent dwellings were increased by 112 per cent, effective in June. So if we have so much energy and so much savings, then we have to ask, why are these increases happening? Now, some of the speakers are from here, giving hamashi lectures, drawing phallic paintings, doing sensory operations, ▪ everyday oil production has been raised from 50,000 barrels a year to 62,000 barrels. They describe it. Of course, when you listen to it like that, the citizen looks at it like, wow, it's a huge increase. So Turkey's share of consumption has never exceeded the 7 per cent to 10 per cent of the tape in any time in its history. To compare this, in the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Administration, you don't need an artery well or anything like that, you turn on the faucet, and suddenly there's 80 thousand barrels coming out of the artery well, so to compare. So there's no point in making it sound like you've done a lot of big, big, big, big things, a lot of work, because it's just a perception operation. Now, there's the matter of natural gas again. You offer natural gas deposits in the Black Sea as hope for the people you have made poor. When these reserves are put into business, are there going to be a sale on the citizens' natural gas, or are you going to give the citizens free gas? It's not possible, and we know you can't do it and we know you don't do it -- but we know from your apps to companies, you're only doing business for the benefit of companies. So far, all the discounts you've done in electricity have been reflected in distribution companies, supply companies, and citizens? It didn't, that's how we know. Now, this project recently signed an agreement with the French firm for part of the project for a 1.5 billion dollar production facility. 90% of the workers in the drill are foreigners. All of this has a cost, and you're going to charge it to your citizens, so you're going to protect and protect companies, and that's what all the samples show. Now, we're looking at, again, a bag of bills on the electric bills, a bag of bills. There are no pencils in the electric bills, there's no telling what expenses are all about, you've just divided them into three pieces under the name tax and energy, and the electricity bills that come to our house are in these three parts. The energy share in this is 52 percent. In fact, 52 percent of our bills are in return for the energy share; the rest is all the money that goes into the delivery companies' pockets or is taxed. In that sense, this is a picture of your approach, where you look, how you look; it's very clear from here. Now, the law proposal -- along with the new law -- is likely to be discussed after the budget, but you've applied the gradual billing system in the last items, so it's passed as a clause, which is the last law proposed in Article 32. The graded bill system will also bring a new burden to the citizen, and I'd like to put it this way. Now, during the production of electricity, you destroy the nature, water, air, forests of citizens, peasants, and all living things, polluting, polluting, destroying, making it unusable; that's how you get electricity. Does that reflect positively on the citizens? No. Because there's a motion we've made in both the Plan and Budget Commission and the relevant commissions, and there's one thing we say in the HDP: electricity should be exempt to 200 kilowatts of citizens, so we have to meet this need, especially in the conditions of poverty under pandemic conditions. The other thing is, of course, you know, when you're producing this electrical energy, you're destroying it, mining activities. So, your attitude in mining activities is that the tree that you can't rent its shadow, the forest, you send it to the mining companies, you transfer it there. 62% of 15 cities are now in the mines, so there's an interesting situation. This was created by the TEMA Foundation; the TEMA Foundation bought this information from MAPEG, and paid over 300,000 liras for information. Their work covers 15 cities, so they've only been able to do this work for 15 cities yet. When you look at it, 62% of the 15 cities -- there are forests in it, there are areas to protect, there are urban habitats, there are agricultural areas -- are largely licensed to mining companies. I mean, the mining thing has turned into a case on your side. Now, when you look at it, what do you get from the mines? We take the raw material, we sell the raw material abroad to be operated. In fact, there's no profit to be made here, you know, even if you just look at it that way, there's a commoner who's drawn to corporations and imperialist countries all across the country. There are already cases of CED, which are not done properly in cases of CED; you've made a lot of changes to the Mining Law that goes around behind it, and because of that, the CED is not in place in cases of CED. Now, in Giresun Shebinkarahisar, the Nesko Mines' waste pool exploded, allegedly there's chemical water, cyanide, and so on, it's said to have been mixed in Kelkit Tea. Of course, it's not scientifically studied; what happened, what was the result, how much did it destroy? So, what do you guys do? You're giving the company a ticket or a restraining order. Now, this is this: "I give his money, I destroy it. It's logic, on the one hand. On the other hand, a law passed here, a law passed here. Something like this, this citizen can go and start another company and continue to operate as it is. It's the company that's being punished, not the other way around. Now, all of this basically shows that you're not taking a stand for nature, for living things, that you're running these mining activities from a place that protects and protects companies entirely. In that sense, I'll pay him, I'll dirty him. The logic, the approach that needs to be abandoned...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0129par0421	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0128par0422	Thank you, Mayor. Now, this renewable energy has its scope. What do we have in this area? Now, you're looking at it, which means the HESEs have the highest share. So hydropower plants, renewable energy -- you know, you're going on these platforms, you're saying, "Ya, we've increased the renewable energy share this high." What is concrete investment, or what is HESELLS? It's all a concrete investment, and it's a way of polluting the villagers' water, polluting their streams, destroying them, destroying them. HESEs definitely need to be removed from renewable energy. In fact, you get this support from Europe, you support companies through CODEM, and you transfer money back to concrete, so HESESTs are nothing but concrete, and they're nothing but polluting the nature of people, living things. This is the result of your destruction. And we're the ones who are going to eliminate all these destructions. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0130par0426	In order, Mr. Muazzez Orhan Ilkut, the Van MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0131par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a commitment to the energy market regulatory agency and the nuclear regulatory budget. Humans have benefited from various energies for tens of thousands of years. As the settlement took place, as the perception of man's domination of nature became established, as the cities grew and metropolized, the need for energy increased, but the use of radioactive activity was revealed over the last two years. As in Turkey and in many parts of the world, an energy market is dominated by capitalism and market conditions. In your energy policies, it is not the needs of the people; it is the priorities of Rant, capital and exploitation. In the age when cancer cases are growing so quickly and uncontrollably, millions of people who have been exposed to radiation are threatened. Unfortunately, there is no awareness, no awareness policy, and no healthy control mechanism. Radiotherapy, a source of radiation, teeth and other medical radiology devices, and hospitals using these devices, must be seriously inspected and taken into account necessary measures for the health of health workers and citizens. Dear lawmakers, as epidemics, diseases, cancers are rapidly increasing due to natural destruction, the global climate crisis is on the world's agenda and the water supply is rapidly running out, it is impossible to understand the government's insistence on nuclear. Because of this insistence, the world is like a bomb ready to explode on a nuclear dump. Thirty-five years later, we're still experiencing the effects of the Chernobyl disaster. We all know that any leak at Metzamor Nuclear Plant, 10 miles from the Turkish border, will not only affect Armenia. So far, there have been dozens of fatal accidents, thousands of lives, or disability, that have lasted thousands of years in nuclear power plants and cannot be compensated for. Accidents are hardly an accident, they're a disaster that comes with the eye. Dear lawmakers, where nuclear reactors are being removed, especially the recycling of liquids and gas waste is also very dangerous. Also, high-tech and absolute control processes are mandatory for recycling solid waste. It's not hard to imagine the consequences of nuclear disasters while the work killings in Soma, Ermenek, Shirvan have not been wiped out, while the work killings in the Sakarya Dynasty are still alive. It's a suicide attempt to insist on nuclear activity when the consequences of the nuclear spill in Japan are obvious. From Chernobyl to Fukushima, the risk of nuclear disaster has always been greater because of earthquakes, neglect, sabotage, or infrastructure failures; such as Turkey, in countries where life has been devalued. Any leak situation requires an emergency evacuation of millions of people. Even when we look at the turmoil and inadequacies in Turkey following earthquakes, we can imagine how difficult that could be. It is not possible for an infrastructure that has failed to intervene in this summer's fires to intervene in a possible nuclear disaster. The year 2021 was a year of ecological destruction and natural disasters. After earthquakes, floods, and forest fires, people were left alone, helpless, homeless and poor in this country. Even in disasters, you discriminated, not interfering with forest fires in Kurdistan, not letting them. Van was not declared a natural disaster zone after dozens of disasters, and the people's harms were still not paid. With these segregating policies, your dominant power has led the entire country to disaster. Again, even if there is no risk at Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, a runt project, the process to cool the reactor will destroy living life in the Mediterranean from the moment it begins. The risk of Turkey's forests, which are the breath of Turkey, tourism, which is a chimneyless industry, can be explained simply by short-term Rant accounts. Of course, we're not opposed to energy production, but we're against the fact that energy production is being done with allies, subsidiary companies, security policies and Ranta-oriented approaches. Of course, for public housing, transportation, production, employment and prosperity, enough and cheap energy should be produced, but not by destroying nature and life for the sake of the runt. From the air we breathe to the water we drink, we have to prefer the least harmful of energy types that are as effective as our genetics. Besides, nuclear energy isn't cheap because it's in a foreign currency index. These facilities are owned by foreign capital in every way, not by the people of Turkey. An energy policy must be created that can be restored without being thrown into a nuclear frenzy and in the interest of the public. The budget for nuclear energy must be reserved for solar and wind energy. While the world is beginning to give up nuclear, Turkey's insistence leads to disaster. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, Turkey is also dependent on the outside of energy production. All resources in Turkey have been sold to foreign capital, so energy consumption is as expensive as production. Many cities, particularly trustee municipalities, have an excessive pollution of light, which is not only for show, but also for profit. In the rural areas of the cities, when there was not enough electricity in many neighborhoods, streets, and houses, a freak lighting was made from the entrances of cities to the centers of the cities at 15 to 20 meters. As in many cities, the photos of Erdoğan are the main ones in the 20 metres of the Van. The goal is not lighting; it is the propaganda of Rant, AKP and Erdogan. While electricity is being wasted on your vulgar display, many villages and neighborhoods remain in the dark and in the cold. There is no electricity in 13 villages in the region of Geliya Karker, which is only an hour away. This is not just the case in this region, but in many villages of Van Nah and the region. If the leaf falls, the electricity will be cut in these villages. Another problem is that the winter hour has not been passed for five years. In the western provinces, especially where the population is very dense, millions of people use an extra hour of electricity because the day starts about an hour late. Experts say it hasn't saved money for years. Energy statistics also show that energy use has increased over the last five years, but the AKP continues to insist on any reason. It is also said that there is more electricity in the country than is needed, and that electricity production capacity will be sufficient for at least 15 years, with projects being done and planned. It may be natural to have production and capacity surplus, but in Turkey there is a plan with political preferences, since there are guarantees of buy-ins for subsidiary firms. The priority here is not to meet the needs of the public, but to transfer capital to the allies. It is not known how much, how much, how much, and how many years it is given to businesses and guarantees for electricity production during the AKP period, and how much it costs to the public. The cost of electricity is also increased by the increase in electricity, which comes every month. Millions of subscribers are cut off because they can't pay their electricity debt. These citizens, who can't pay their debts, are paid the price of opening and closing as if they're asking for dental rent. Electricity is a basic right and a vital need. It is so vital that the life of SSPE patients and respiratory patients depends on electricity that the power outage is vital. Electricity and natural gas have become a luxury for the poor and small-income households. The poor and disabled must be given electricity free of charge for a certain kilowatt. As electricity use increases, prices can also be increased proportionally. If they are billed like this, a large part of the population will also be headed for savings. Energy production should be based on renewable energy. The concessions and privileges granted to non-company companies must be cancelled. Electricity production and consumption must be publicized.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0132par0443	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0131par0444	The right to energy for poor and disabled citizens must be protected. The budget of 2022 was reset before it reached the public by the coup d'etat of court economists. Since this budget was drawn up from the palace, neither scientists nor suggestions nor the basic energy needs of the people have been taken into account. This budget is not designed for the public, but for the runt, for ally and capital. We reject this palace and war budget, which does not depend on nature, women, young people, workers, farmers, disabled people and poor people. I salute all our people.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0133par0448	Şanlıurfa MP Omar Ocalan... Here you go, Mr. Ocalan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0451	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute our people. The Parliament is currently making its budget of $1 trillion 700 billion in 2022. Hands will be raised, they will be lowered, but in the central government system, in the central nation state system, unfortunately, someone is preparing, preparing bureaucrats; what they will bring here will put in front of us, the numerical majority will be sufficient, there will be no basis for discussion or change. Now, if we criticize this structure from within this system or criticize this mechanism, it's a little pointless. In fact, it's useful to go outside the system and criticize the existing nation's state system. We're not talking about the economy and the budget of 2022; we're talking about how we're going to divide the spoils that exist between institutions; we're talking about what institution is going to benefit from, how much booty is it going to take, which department it's going to transfer, how it's going to melt in locals. There is a great economic crisis that exists, an understanding that does not see the economic crisis. The main obstacle to criticism is the central nation state system. Unfortunately, the opposition may be a partner at this point. We don't know if they stand up to the European Union's local autonomy requirement. It has two major municipalities and municipalities within the Mediterranean borders. This central level of construction, this central state mechanism, it doesn't think about the future of the locals, it doesn't think about the budget, folks, it's very clear. The structure here is an antidemocratic structure. That's right, 583 MPs came here in 2018, doing a study from there to here. That was the case for 80 years, and that was the case during the 80 years before the AKP. Allegedly changing the system, the AKP also showed mercy to the 80-year-old system at the end of the day, and unfortunately, it is attempting to show death and persuade malaria. Now, there's no point in saying a system, not a system. Why not the system? The presidential system? Not at all. The presidential system? Not at all. Federal system? Not at all, friends. That's what the government called it, though, what did they say? The Turkish-type system. It's a vague, meaningless, worthless system. A vice president appointed by the President can come in here and lay words on the chosen ones, insult them. Where does he get his legitimacy? He bases his legitimacy on 52 per cent of the President's vote, but he doesn't see that he comes in his own way. Now that we're back in a state of bureaucracy, we're back in a state of theocrasia. Against that, we need to make suggestions outside the system. If you don't build democracy in this country in the political regime, if you don't expand the democratic field, you can't get out of it, so you'll be based on less states, more communities, more community-based approach. Blessing the state, raising the state, desecrating the state, taking away all income, all expenses, all material spiritual values from society, in fact. It creates a great myth, creates a great symbol, provides a legitimate area over this symbol. We have suggestions; we have to criticize it from outside the system. The mechanism containing multiple ethnic structures, including multiple religious structures, contains more than one political understanding, is not carried out by the nation's state structure. We're putting the democratic nation in front of it, we're putting the democratic confederal system in front of it, or it's been like this for a hundred years since 1923, and those with 2023 targets are going to put the country in a more profound conflict. Guys, what part of economics should we talk about? I just checked, Mr. Secretary, that's a 66-cent increase in maszo. A sack of flour was 170 liras a month ago, now $340, maybe even higher. Fruits, vegetables, clothing, food, they're all gone, you can't control it. Isn't economics actually a housing, feeding, self-defense situation? What do you mean by economics? Money, currency, repo, stock markets... you're actually kidnapping people, taking them away from the public. The public has nothing to do with these terms, with this economic style; the public can't live, the people can't feed, the people can't operate their own internal mechanism. Against that, we need a different system to connect the republic with democracy, and if this republic doesn't democratize, the end is inevitable. Look, the end is near; you can't move this thing forward with a wave of nationalism and a religious movement. Look, you say you're closed down, but you're not going to shut down because you're talking about exports, and because you're defending exports, you actually need to feed on world values, you need to feed on the values of democracy. You're talking about the goods you're going to export to Europe, you're going to have to get a little closer to European values, but it seems that business here has become a joke, rather than a hammock. Look, people are in trouble. People, people with vehicles, flock to oil at night to save money, raiding oil offices; AKP MPs here say it's a crowd because of the number of cars in the country. I think it's important to be serious about these things because our people, our people, are in agony, our people are in economic crisis. That's right, the structure here may not be affected. That's the nature of the nation's state, that's the necessity of the nation's state, so it doesn't affect this place. But go and see that Amed's budget, the budget of Istanbul, the budget of Hakkari, the budget of Urbana is not done here, friends, it's something else that's done here. We must not tolerate this situation, the country is on the brink. Our friends told us about the trustees, our friends told us about the people's will that was taken away. Now, the presidential government system is this system; there is nothing beyond it; it takes what it can and it can't afford; it's in a different way; it's taken the country into a war zone, it's taken over, it's taken over the institutions. Imagine, the president of this country's main opposition party can't get in, can't get in through the door, can't get in. There's a lot of violence on our party, we can't get information, we're not responding to the question motion, you've built a system like this, but this system is now approaching the end. Let me also point out that the reinforced parliamentary system... friends, an 80-year parliamentary system came in, and then, unofficially, the AKP ran a different system for 20 years, and in 2018, they came in calling it a Turkish-type system. What's the bet from now on, what's it gonna be? What do you mean, a reinforced parliamentary system? What are you saying, what are you explaining? Are you going to say something to so many differences, to so many ethnic identities, to so many different ideas, or is it until his work comes in a different dimension, to the power mechanism -- actually, after the future system comes in, we'll do something different to ourselves. The economic, social, political structure is all connected. Unfortunately, there's nothing in the budget here for the public, the poor, no one in the slums, there's a division between institutions, so let me put it this way, folks. In a few words, let me address our people who don't speak Turkish.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0135par0461	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0462	.....
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0136par0464	Do you understand what he's saying, Mr. President? What's he talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0465	.....
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0137par0467	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0468	.....
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0138par0470	Do you understand, Mr. President, maybe he's swearing?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0471	(PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0139par0473	Mr. Ocalan, Mr. Ocalan...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0474	Please...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0139par0475	We need to understand, too. You said a short sentence, you extended it. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0477	How? You want me to say it in Turkish?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0139par0478	So we don't understand, and we need to understand.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0134par0479	Shall I say it in Turkish?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0139par0480	Say it, say it in Turkish. Come in, we're listening.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0140par0482	A speech is made to the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0139par0483	Go ahead, explain it in Turkish.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0141par0484	Well, friends, let me tell you in Turkish: there's a reaction situation, we understand.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0139par0485	No, there's no reaction -- the Turkish -- we want to understand it, too. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0142par0487	There's no reaction, sir. We don't understand what you're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0143par0488	Yeah, well, you have a right to understand. I'll tell you in Turkish, let our people know.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0144par0489	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where they speak Turkish.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0143par0490	Everything's getting expensive, poverty's going up. The cheapest thing in this country is Turkish lira. There's a power that's happy about it, and unfortunately, it's happy about it. Over 15 euros, over $1.13; this is your work. One of the reasons is the situation of violence, conflict and war in the region. We salute our people.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0145par0493	Well, thank you. The last word on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party belongs to Diyarbakır MP Mr. Derim Ağım. Here you go, Mr. Mountain.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0146par0497	Mr. President, we're talking about the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, but frankly, I don't know what to say, but I'd like to say it in the end. This country owes us a youth. Why? Because this is a country where we can only win if we lose our heads. We young people, who have been promised the most but are not included in any mechanisms, when we read and question, we meet detention. The width of our dreams is now proportional to the width of the prison courtyards. Our differences come as crimes. Freedom of thought, you say? It's the right thing to do. And yet, in the picture of power, it's all so bright. You don't have a licensed unemployment because you're either a turncoat when you go to school, or you're a marketer, or you're a construction worker. No education problems, no dorm problems because one torpedo is enough. There's no housing problem because sleeping in parks is free. Are you from the AKP or not from TUGVA? Don't despair, there are plenty of jobs abroad. Did you bring one criticism to all of this? That's when a greater policy comes into play than the invention of the wheel of power: take out your phone. Yes, the only functioning youth policy: show me your phone. (PEOPLE Applause) [[Applause from HDP rows]] Dear friends, if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you a little bit about the truth. You screwed up on-line training because of the pandemic. And it wasn't so different when the training started face-to-face. The biggest problem with college students is housing and not living. With about 8 million students, the KYK dorm capacity is only 724 thousand. The lack of housing capacity left dozens of students on the street due to rent increases. 89 per cent of the students can't live, and there's no way that dozens of students who can't live in the dorms can't go home. Unrested students began to sleep in the parks. Women's students in Dersim in the middle of the night The disciples came. They were thrown out into the street. Students staying on the street will also march to Ankara on December 12th for their right to reside. Few students who can enter the dorm are also exposed to bad food at expensive prices. And what did you do, by the way? From your palaces, you have declared the students to be terrorists. Students come not to study but to the environment of ssurvivor, no internet, no dorms, and at the time of the sale of half a bagel, the student is given only $650 a month. Would you look at the nimeth? Spending won't go away, and that's too much for power. I'd like to ask you all, have you heard of Refikcan Uysal? Çanakkale is a third-grader at the University of March 18th. Refikcan Uysal is just one of the millions of students who were forced to work as a student. He died in an accident when he returned home from work. It's not just about studying when you're a student, it's about getting real unemployment after you graduate. The youth unemployment rate has reached 40 per cent, and most of the young unemployed are college graduates. The youth's unemployment rate increased by 12.9% in 2004 to 27.2 per cent in 2021. Only about 1.5 million college graduates face under the minimum wage. Again, I'm going to tell you about a name, Fedai Altun. A 23 - year - old boy who went from Van to Malatya to work construction was not appointed a Fedai Altun. He was killed by an electrical surge in the transformer. Who's responsible for this? I'll tell you, you're responsible for this. You're fed up with the youth's hunger, you're clothed in nudity. You should be ashamed of that. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) A student who studies four years of college and receives a loan is owed an average of 28.894,000 euros at the end of four years. In 2020-2021, over 8 million students left the university in debt of 5.5 million students. The accounts of 400,000 students have been e-accessed. Today young people are dealing with debts instead of culture, art, politics, philosophy. Because every day they owe more than the day before. Stop billing the students for this economic crisis you've created. Remove the debt from all the students who can't pay the loan after they graduate. There is no place for tribute in the state of social and legal, and there is no place for extortion from students. Without money, qualified education is the most basic right. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Honourable Councillors, young women from college who can't get along with their repayment loans, women who have no appointments, have to work as seasonal workers. Young women work on one side of the field and take care of the elderly and children. One of these young women describes her condition by saying: "My mother is sick, diabetic, and my father has a heart condition. I can't go to school because I come here and work. I wanted to study, I wanted to be a doctor. I carry a burden over my power. Violence, harassment and rape against women have also been systematically increased in AKP's 19-year rule. According to official figures, 251 women were murdered in the first 11 months of 2021. Of course, there are no women driven to suicide, lost, lost in this official data. Gulistan Doku, lost in Dersim, has been absent for seven hundred and three days, not wanted to be found. Kubra Ekin, aged twenty-three, lives in Diyarbakir, has been missing for 24 days. Specialist Musa Orhan, who raped and led to suicide, was sentenced to ten years in prison with a reduction in good behavior from his trial. The person who raped and killed a young woman is like a reward for punishment if she is in uniform, while the woman who calls the rapist "the rapist" is fined with compensation. The government, which withdraws from the Istanbul Convention, leaves women unprotected, protects the perpetrators and uniformed with a policy of punishment, and this policy of punishment leads to the slaughter and rape of dozens of women every day. The other thing he wants to talk about is addiction. The age of addiction has dropped from 11 to 12 years old, and almost 4 out of 5 young people are addicted to drugs. The fact that we've become a law enforcement state and there's a MOBESE on every corner doesn't mean there's an obstacle to the sale of substances, even experts and law enforcement officers as drug dealers. Finally, I'd like to record a few things about the HDP Youth Council. Let's break down addiction, set up a new life campaign against the widespread drug abuse and abuse of our Youth Assembly. They go door-to-door, reaching out to young people and families, trying to raise awareness of addiction. Of course, in these studies, they are involved in the obstacles of the government and its law enforcement officers. At the same time, the work of our Youth Assembly has been blocked, while young people are being kidnapped and forced to spy, arrested or taken into custody. Are the studies against substance abuse and abuse disturbing the government? Why is it that our Youth Assembly's work is being blocked, and we will not allow you to do this work by law enforcement? As long as the HDP Youth Council exists, no force will be able to draw young people into darkness so easily. (Applause from HDP rows) We say to those who ignore young people and their will, that the life of the palace that steals the country's youth will soon end, leaving young people unemployed in their most productive times, formatting their despair-producing systems.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0147par0510	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0146par0511	Inflation, interest, exchange; Erdogan, you are the biggest crisis!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0147par0513	The demands for the People's Democratic Party Group have been met.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0148par0514	Mr. President, by the way, the people are terrorizing you. You haven't seen the word, I'll show you, Erkan Akçay (Manisa) is terrorizing parliament...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0147par0515	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş. You have two minutes. Please, let's finish this before we get into another mess.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0149par0518	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been working here for years to know what's being picked on and what's not. For one thing, first of all, there's another party that defends the closing of our party day and night everywhere, and I don't know if there's any need to say your name. They established their politics at group meetings and everywhere only on the closure of HDP. That's not enough. Now, this time, let's shut it down. They say, they're obsessed with AYM. So what? We object. Let this be closed. We don't take it very seriously -- I'll tell you that -- we don't take it on the agenda...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0150par0519	Then why are you talking?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0149par0520	But since the Supreme Court is being held today, we need to talk about it. We also object, and they yell and yell, and they really can't listen. Why? They say to me in the notes: "Did it fall to you, or did it fall to you?" They say to me. Yes, sir, it fell to me, that I, as a lawyer, can criticize the decisions of the AYM. I can defend the democratization of its structure, I can do different criticisms based on the separation of forces, but I can't say that the AYM should be shut down. They think they own this country, they think they can take citizens of Turkey with envy. They made the nation desperate for a penny, because they called it a nationalist. They're the enemy of the great nation because their compasses are not law and justice, but this country is not without its property, and you don't own it. We're one of the owners of this country as much as you are. Since you don't have any other policy, I can talk to you for hours about the illegality of the Feti Star.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0150par0521	We don't need anything.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0149par0522	...hours and hours, but I don't need it because your compass is bullying, embezzlement...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0150par0523	That's enough!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0149par0524	No law, no justice.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0151par0526	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0150par0527	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0151par0528	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0150par0529	I want to talk about bullying, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0151par0530	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0150par0532	Mr. President, the speaker, our group speaker, Mr. Feti Star, has agreed to take the speech. However, our speaker said that for the Constitutional Court... There's not even any hints to their group, and there's no bullying. [[Noises from HDP rows]] Yes, it's open now.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0152par0536	Learn to listen; we listened, you listen.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0153par0537	Congressmans, let's hear it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0539	The air was cloudy. He said, "These are Feti Yildiz, the MHP Group called us Ördek." They stood up, and there was nothing else. (MHP and AK PARTY) And you're talking here to conduct a policy in your own way to provoke it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0155par0540	What do you mean, shut it down? That's a coup, that's what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0541	So are your other speakers here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0155par0542	It's a coup to the constitutional order.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0543	Now we're going to take out October 6th, 7th, and we're going to put people out on the street, and we're going to provoke...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0156par0544	That's not true.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0545	...to accept your connections with the terrorist organization as an insult to yourself...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0157par0546	You're slandering me, Mayor, slandering me, slandering me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0158par0547	Shut down the Constitutional Court. It is a coup d'état.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0548	After that, the PKK will drown you in your saliva. Who said the words? HDP MPs. Who are those who call our backs to the YPG? Peoples' Democratic Party We will build a statue of Apo. Who will say? Peoples' Democratic Party
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0158par0549	A constitutional order is a threat.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0550	I've said on this bench before: It's a lack of saying that HDP is a supporter of the PKK, and you're the leader of the PKK itself.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0158par0552	Shut it down. It means that constitutional order is a threat.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0553	We speak our views on the Constitutional Court. And here, quite clearly, Mr. Feti Star, here, look...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0159par0556	The hammer is...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0557	The appeal is subject to the Constitutional Court, based on the nature of the case...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0160par0559	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0560	...if he has a title, if he's an organization member, and if he's a member of parliament, the Constitutional Court will move it forward and decide as soon as possible.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0161par0561	Shut down the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0154par0562	There are none left to defend this Constitutional Court but the HDP (HDP).
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0162par0564	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0163par0565	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0162par0566	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0163par0567	Our dear people, a party that defends itself against murderers and gang leaders can't talk about us. He's trying to legitimize his own politics with the words of Terror, but we'll never accept it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0164par0568	You're terrorists! This isn't a Capitol terrorist cell!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0165par0569	Who are you?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0166par0570	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0167par0571	Although not all members of the National Movement Party are involved, certain names and spokesmen commit the crime on the 288th Article of the Turkish Penal Code on purpose and willingly every day in their speech.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0165par0572	You had so much respect for the courts, why do you keep calling the man who went from terror?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0167par0573	They threaten the Constitutional Court, they put pressure on the Constitutional Court; it became so that President of the Constitutional Court, Zühtü Arslan, would not make political robes. We practice law in our robes, we judge. What we're saying, what they're saying. We say: You consider yourself the owner of this country, but you're not...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0165par0574	We own it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0168par0575	Yeah.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0167par0576	...you're a party that's getting smaller and lowering the dam for yourself and only trying to continue your life by attacking us. We're not the only ones who are saying it, all Turkish citizens see it. We don't talk about it as much as possible. Would you look at this sentence, the Constitutional Court says about the closure of the HDP (HDP). [[Right. The sounds of MHP rows.]] There are hundreds of conversations like this.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0169par0579	What should we say to him who says, "I will build the statue of the afflicted? "
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0167par0580	And you can't stand the exceptions made by the Constitutional Court once a month.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0170par0581	None of your business, that's what we think. I thought you were talking about freedom of opinion.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0167par0582	Your minister, Feti Yildiz, Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu, said...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0170par0583	None of your business! Is it up to you?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0167par0584	He's standing next to the members of the organization and the MPs. It's a sin!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0171par0586	Yes, thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0167par0587	He was convicted of freedom of thought and expression, a court order was lifted, and you call him a terrorist accomplice.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0172par0589	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0171par0590	Mr. Akçay, are you requesting your position? Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0172par0592	This HDP says these words with the lameness of being an extension of the PKK's terrorist organisation. We repeat as the National Movement Party Group: HDP must be shut down, only because it is an extension of PKK.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0173par0595	MHP is trouble in this country! By God, MHP is trouble in this country!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0174par0596	MHP is the congerilla organization, it must be shut down!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0175par0597	MHP must be shut down, it's a mafia extension!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0174par0598	It's a mafia extension!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0176par0599	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0177par0600	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0176par0601	This HDP has no will, it is an extension of the terrorist organization that determines its own governing boards, candidates, parliamentary candidates, municipal council candidates, not even by its own institutional structure, but by the Kandil. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey wasn't a terrorist cell, it won't be!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0178par0603	How do you know? How do you know?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0177par0604	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0179par0605	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0177par0606	Yes, Mr. Beştaş...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0179par0607	May I take the stand?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0177par0608	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0180par0609	He spoke from his place. For God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0179par0610	What is the matter with you?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0177par0611	Let me lead! Mr. Beştaş, please, I beg you very much, don't give me any more trouble. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0181par0614	We know exactly what we stand for and what we say. You say shut down the HDP! But we, the politics that the MPP is doing, we, as a political party, agree to say it, even though it deserves to be shut down a thousand times. We never say that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0182par0615	For God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0183par0616	Wow!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0181par0617	Because we know very well that you will be shut down by the public and that you are being shut down. Interference between HDP and MPP ranks)
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0182par0618	For God's sake!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0184par0619	That's what they say.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0185par0620	No way!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0186par0621	We are a party who believes in democratic politics, not in court decisions, but in the polls, that the parties will win and lose in the polls. What you're saying right now is that terrorism is considered a crime in many countries around the world, in Europe and in many parts of the world.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0187par0623	You're the one who's being racist.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0185par0624	Racist is a bastard! Racist is a bastard, he's dishonest, he's dishonorable! You're being racist.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0188par0625	You're the racist!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0189par0626	There are lists now. So you're in a position to say something to us last, last, last. Look, it's not about yelling. I know exactly what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0190par0628	He's a racist bastard, he's dishonest, he's dishonest.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0191par0629	You're the racist!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0189par0630	We're against racism, too. We're nationalists. We're talking to a party that says, "We're nationalists." We're very aware of that. And, frankly, if we look at the 2001 crisis, we'll see the MHP there, and now we can see the MHP again in the crisis, and I'm afraid you don't really have a party to throw you about Kurdish hostility.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0192par0632	You're the Kurdish enemy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0193par0633	You're the Kurdish enemy, you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0194par0634	Baby killers! You're the racist, you're the Kurdish enemy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0195par0635	We're always here against whatever we say. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we are the party of the Kurd, of the Turk, of the Arab, of Laz.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0196par0639	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0197par0640	You're the racist, you're the Kurdish enemy, you're the baby killer.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0198par0641	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit02spe0196par0642	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0196par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume our talks with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 The commission is in place. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0199par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. In the past months, in the United States, in France, in Germany, before Austria, especially in those countries, the PKK and some Armenian lobbyists have also co-operated, and they have launched a smear campaign against the countries, and it has no reputation, nor does it have anything to do with governments. It is an honor, honor, to say, that the leaders of the PKK are enemies of the archipelago. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Milliyetçi Movement Party is also the calm citizens of the district, the province, where they are organized in more than 900 districts in 81 districts, in the whole of the country, and with all our executives, and the main Kurdish enemies of Kurds who have been cutting roads and slaughtering babies in their mother's womb for thirty-five years. (MHP and AK PARTY) And this Veteran Assembly will never be a terrorist cell. Thank you. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0200par0106	Yes, we will meet the Republican People's Party's demands. The first statement is from Mr Ahmet Tuncay Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0110	Yes, thank you very much for your interest, exist. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a commitment to make a general assessment of the budget on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, and I salute you all. I told you that everything that rots will fall, and in the last budget, you rot and fall. Now you see what I'm saying is that you were just going down, and you didn't quite grasp it at the time, and that budget is the budget of the fall. What we're talking about today is not the budget of the Republic of Turkey; what we're talking about today is nothing but the numerical data of the decaying system, the dying morality. You promise our people nothing but tears, austerity, hunger, poverty, nothing, nothing; you can't even imagine, we're dealing with a budget text that's far from imagining. Your story is over, you're rotten, you're going to fall; you can't avoid that fated ending. So we're going to talk about the system that sells its morality in dollars, and we're going to talk about stink. This budget is the farewell budget of the royal government because of all this. This is your last budget, you can't make any more budgets. (CHP cheers) Because the palace eventually made its class choice, sold its people to the bosses in exchange for exchange, not to the weird guru who led it to power; it favoured exploitation, money fathers. The country's insecurity, increased crimes against property and lives, women's murders, violent tendencies, severe violent tendencies are a natural consequence of this preference. AK PARTY is now a rich and elite party, nothing more. Those friends who started the decaying system yesterday as an honest intern and carried the values of where he came from at his place of work, today, they made fun of the millions of anonymous powdered sugars and made fun of the nation. It's not our people's weakness, it's the natural consequence of the decaying system. Let's not forget, friends, small crimes are the mother of major crimes. That mother is the owners of this system, the palace. The palace is now the kitchen of the rich. The palace is nothing more than a table where rich people are laid up and their dinners are eaten. Let them enter the rich kitchen of the palace, let them call them, we have opened our hearts to our people, we have opened our table, we are here, we are with our soul, we are with our table, we are with our lawful bread, we are with our morality, we invite everyone, all our citizens to our table. This invitation is ours, thank you, friends, come in, friends, this is ours. The budget we're going to make that day will be this country's budget. My late friend Erol Ol many, many years ago Erkan came to visit with a group of his friends -- let me remember our martyr -- what are you up against, my friend? We're against whatever you're up against. Look, you were writing about bureaucratic oligarchy, you were saying, you were saying the same thing you were saying, why do you oppose us? If only I had been wrong, if only I had imagined, if only you hadn't become the oligarchy yourself, if only you hadn't succumbed to oligarchy, if only you hadn't turned yourself into him, if only, if only... We're looking for those days with wax. Only one man in the palace, one man, decides everything, including the budget. He's the only one responsible for 27,000 signatures, the only one responsible for 27,000 signatures. Only one person signs 27,000 signatures. Can this freak regime be budgeted, people? I'm asking. By August, $160 billion will be paid. Is there money? No. The Central Bank minus 70 billion dollars is $40 billion, and I say that with my heart burning.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0202par0114	The numbers are always wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0115	I'm saying this with my heart burning, and I'm dying, and I wish I wasn't saying this, and I wish we could talk about something else. Look, when you brought the $1 trillion 750 billion budget to the House, it was $9, today it was $14. You guys lit this fire, so it's a farewell budget, it's the decline of the decaying system, it's the name of the ending, it's the name of the ending. He's out there in all the cinemas; if you look at some strangers, you'll see. The palace announced the mid-term plan to calm the markets. The medium-term plan was all of the promises that Turkey's economy has taken from the past to the present, that would solve all structural problems that have been increasingly heavy in recent years; it disappeared on the day it was announced. There's no middle-term plan at the moment; it's not valid, it's invalid, all their targets are meaningless. The mid-term plan, which is based on the drafting of the 2022 budget, is by all assumptions keenlemek. According to the medium-term plan, the dollar for 2022 is dry 9.7; according to the medium-term plan, the dollar for 2024 is dry 10.27; today $114, friends, total 14. Therefore, in such an environment, it is pointless to discuss the budget of 2022 in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because there is no plan, there is no program, there is no reality; what is real is the deep poverty that we fall into. What we are in today is not the budget, but what we are in today is deep poverty. We are caught in a deep web of poverty; in schools, our children are hungry, our teachers hungry, parents hungry. We have a power that insults those who shout, "We are hungry, we are hungry." We have a court order. Could that be it? All right, it's happened. I'm asking you: if this is a budget, if what we're talking about today is a budget -- Mr. Engin Altay, you're a teacher -- today, right now, with a motion in our public schools -- let's make a motion -- I'll applaud our friends, my friends who gave me the motion until my hands burst, and we'll support it -- why don't we start the school feeding program?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0203par0120	Now.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0121	Why don't our children go to school hungry, come from school hungry, and if it's a budget, why don't we fight the hunger of our children? This is not a budget that can answer that question. If you call it a budget, if you have a budget like this, then bring it summer, brother, bring it summer, we'll sign for it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0204par0122	There's food at school.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0123	Where's the food?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0204par0124	In schools, of course.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0125	You don't know the world.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0204par0126	You don't.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0127	No, if there is, I'm going to step down.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0205par0128	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0204par0129	Of course I do.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0130	Yeah, your kids go to private school, right?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0205par0131	Mr. Özkan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0132	You're pushing 50 grand, 50 grand. Oh, your kids go to schools, yeah, not at the poor school where they go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0206par0134	It's got to be carried.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0135	It's got to be carried, yes. You put $1 million in the budget, and you brag about it?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0206par0136	It's all there, all of them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0137	Are you bragging about the toast on the mover?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0207par0138	Mr. Özkan, let's address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0139	Are you bragging about the toast on the mover? Too bad, too bad.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0208par0140	Shame on you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0141	If that's the budget of the Republic of Turkey, stop making dollar bills, loan sharks rich. Let's all come together...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0208par0142	No food, he says.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0143	No food at school.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0208par0144	You keep throwing it away.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0145	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0208par0146	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0147	Come on.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0209par0148	Mr. Özkan, Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0149	If what you say is true, if what you say is true...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0150	You don't know the world.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0151	You don't know the world. Go to school, go to school with your child.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0152	You don't know the world.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0153	Let's all go through this motion together, save our children from starvation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0154	There's no food in schools, it's a lie.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0155	Look, people can hear you, I'm complaining about you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0156	Bullshit.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0157	I'm complaining about this friend.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0158	You're full of shit.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0159	He's just giving me a hard time about starving your starving children. There's no other solution.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0161	You're full of shit!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0162	And what you don't know is that during the afternoon, the private sector staff are taking half a cereal, half a boyz; the public staff are taking lunch out of the lunch box so that they can bring food to their children at night. This is no way to mock the hunger of a nation, the hunger of a nation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0163	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0164	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0165	You're full of shit.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0166	You're full of shit, you're full of shit.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0167	Don't lie, don't lie.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0168	As Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu said yesterday, this is a conspiracy budget, a conspiracy against the public. We're not going to feed the rights and the law of this budget and the rights and the law of these people to these friends, these bullshitters.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0210par0169	Your kid goes to private school.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0170	In schools, with a $1 million grant that compares food in rich schools to hunger in public schools.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0211par0171	You're lying, you're lying!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0172	That's a lie. That's what you said. We'll go that way in a school...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0212par0173	Don't talk about public schools, you don't know.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0174	You're the liar, come on!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0213par0176	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Özkan, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0178	You can only afford such nonsense.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0214par0179	What public school did you go to?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0180	İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0215par0182	Mr. Group Vice President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0183	I'll tell you why you can't do it, you can't do it, it can't do it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0216par0184	What public school did you go to?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0185	I went to Malazgirt Elementary.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0216par0186	Have you ever been to any public school?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0187	I read all about it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0216par0188	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0189	I've always been in public school, of course I'll go, I'm not feeding.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0217par0190	Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0191	I'm a child of this nation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0218par0192	You went to private school.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0193	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0218par0194	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0219par0195	Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0196	These are the ones who ban milking aid from the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0218par0197	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0198	They're the ones who forbid it. (HPP) He must be carried to Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality... and with his mother the child will be taken by his hand to the hospital.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0218par0199	You don't know the world!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0200	Haven't you ever seen poverty?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0218par0201	Don't you know anything about Turkey?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0202	Haven't you ever seen hunger? Don't you know that at all?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0220par0203	What neighborhood...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0204	I go to every neighborhood school with you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0221par0205	Let's go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0201par0206	If there's a public school lunch, I'll take anything.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0221par0207	Let's go, let's go, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0222par0208	Let's go...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0223par0209	Mr. Bronze, please...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0224par0210	While you interfered with the practices of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, you took a huge blow to the lives of those poor.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0225par0211	How many people did he give it to, how many people did he give it to?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0224par0212	Don't you know that if he burns the world down, the stranges destroy the palace, he destroys the votes with the strangest of them all, and don't forget that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0225par0214	How many students did he give it to? How many students did he give it to? How many students did he give it to? There are 3 million students in Istanbul, how many students did he give it to?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0226par0215	We gave it to 1 million students.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0225par0216	Look from there, he gives to the Court reports, to 15,000 students, and talks to them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0217	The Deep Poverty Network, today through the Social Solidarity Group, has announced its list of absences today through the Social Solidarity Network: No tubes, no liquid oil, no flour, no sugar, no tea, no instant soup; no, no, no, no, no. No cheese, no cheese for the kid who goes to school. Come on, you're all covered in oil and honey, you don't need any, but, brother, don't you think about what's not?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0228par0218	Wow, wow!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0219	Don't you have a fire in your heart because you don't have one? Won't you shed a tear for the poor? Let's get rid of this shame.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0229par0220	We're with them, don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0221	It's not my throat, it's yours, it's yours, I get it, it's yours.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0229par0222	We're with them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0230par0223	I swear to God, he's spinning!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0224	What do you know? How do you know? Are you following me?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0231par0225	Mr. Özkan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0226	How do you know what happened? I'll go to public school with you. I don't know what you're...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0232par0228	You're full of shit.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0229	You're the bullshitter.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0232par0230	My kid's in public school, where's your kid?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0231	Even in the markets, it locks on diapers, locks on oil...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0232par0232	What a lie!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0233	...limited sales, limited to all of the hard-core consumer goods.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0233par0234	It's a formula lock.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0234par0235	No flour, flour, flour!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0227par0236	Tell me, Mr. President, there's nothing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0234par0237	No flour, President, flour, flour!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0235par0238	They live in parallel universes, parallel universes, parallel universes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0236par0239	Why are you lying to our government? In the government...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0240	If that's the case, let's make a motion together, and it's over. What's the big deal? Guys, the government's down. At Abdullah Ocalan prison, which the National Intelligence Agency brought to Turkey twenty years ago, we have two apartment heads kidnapped; one inside, one in charge of fighting outside. What happened to these kids? What happened to these kids? What are you laughing at? What happened to these kids? What are you laughing at?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0238par0242	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0243	You're not hurt, I'm hurt.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0239par0244	Other than you... what kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0245	Murat Mercan was made ambassador to the United States; he was the founder.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0240par0246	You don't get hurt easily.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0247	The political red tape, unfortunately, has kicked the crap out of Turkey, the red tape that has been thrown into politics. Murat Mercan is meeting with Fetullah.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0241par0248	Who's Fetullah? He's the leader of a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0249	Henry Barkey -- the gentlemen know -- is the planner of the coup, the man America helped the fetishists in Turkey. Before the attack, you said in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0242par0250	Who did you give it to?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0251	You asked me to, and I didn't?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0242par0252	Why did you give it to the people?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0253	You'll learn how to read the indictment. What did Henry Bakey discuss at the home of Murat Mercan? What did they say? Are the records of that meeting with Murat Coral in the state archives? What did Henry Berkley say to her? Why is there a meeting with the fetullahists?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0243par0255	How did you get this information...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0256	It's a shame the souls of the martyrs on the 15th of July are sore in the grave. What are you trying to do? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] You'll explain it, your ambassador, not mine.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0243par0259	Whose bones... who do you share with?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0260	He wouldn't do that if he was a professional diplomat. And his notes would have been in the government archives. We will rebuild Turkey's surrendered bureaucracy through righteousness. We're not the center of despair. We'll rebuild through merit, we promise our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0244par0264	Let's finish, please, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0265	I'm completing it, sir. We will not tolerate any unlawfulness, we will destroy your bureaucratic oligarch!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0245par0268	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0269	We're going to destroy it. Stinking bureaucracy...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0245par0270	They didn't wash it on July 15th, they didn't wash it, and you're gonna destroy it?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0271	Is that the bureaucracy of Fetullah, or are you part of it? What good is it that you can close the doors of the TİKİZ, so that the stinking bureaucracy does not pour into the street? Those doors will be opened to the public, the decaying system will be cleared by the vote of the nation. We're going to deliver what they've taken from the nation, what they've stolen from the nation. We'll give everyone what they deserve. We'll make it up to you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0245par0273	Dream, dream.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0274	It's a promise to our people. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0245par0277	You imagined it, you imagined it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0278	Ha, ha, ha! I laughed so hard!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0245par0279	Why are you laughing?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0237par0280	I laugh at your patheticness, your patheticness.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0245par0281	Laugh at your own misery.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0246par0282	It's worse now, worse than not talking. That's the left, that's the left. Even if Mr. Tuncay had this conversation, the left is finished, that's it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0247par0283	It's time to... Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0248par0285	Sir, I have a brief request, if I may?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0249par0286	Mr. President, look, despite all the teasing, I didn't want a word. Because as part of the agreement, when we just spoke to Mr. Engin Altay, after the group's talks were completed, the Deputy Directors of the Group would ask for a word. I didn't want a word, even though it was said.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0248par0287	Here, here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0249par0288	Then let's not make any deals. Then why are we making a deal?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0248par0289	My dear, I'm 60..
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0249par0290	Then why are the Group Vice Presidents making a deal between themselves?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0248par0291	It's not teasing, it's hurting me, it's hurting me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0249par0292	I'll tell you what hurts me. In this country, we don't talk about this in Turkey, where students are asked for chalk money, wood money. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Which one of these lies are we gonna answer?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0250par0295	Mr. Ünal, Mr. Altay, would you excuse me? [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Congressmans, please... Mr. Ünal, Mr. Altay... Mr. Ünal, if you demand a word, I'll ask you why you requested it. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Yes, members of the law... Yes, we're making promises at the end of the tour because of bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0251par0303	That's different, I'm not...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0250par0304	But yet Mr. Altay hasn't told me why he's demanding a word. So, naturally, when the group's deputy president asks for a word, I'm asking why he requested it, of course, if...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0252par0305	But you didn't just say the same thing when the other Deputy Director of the Group, Coral Danış Beştaş, made a promise.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0250par0306	But I did. Look, then he was doing an evaluation, and I said we'd do it at the end of the tour.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0252par0307	Finally, after the talks had been completed, you made a promise to David Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0250par0308	Well, now, look, Mr. Ünal, Mr. Altay hasn't yet told me why he wants to speak. If he wanted a word from a tease, I would have said the same thing. I was going to say that if he could make a statement based on 60, it's natural, but if he was going to make a taunt or evaluation, we'd wait for the general assessment, but you didn't give me the chance. Just like that. Now, I'm listening to Mr. Engin Altay, if there's any request for a word of taunting at the end of the tour...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0310	No promises, sir, not without teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0250par0311	Let's open Mr. Altay's microphone.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0312	In short, I wanted to tell the great General Assembly about a situation that hurt me very much, a situation, a feeling. Don't I have the right? We haven't said a word since this morning.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0254par0313	We didn't open it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0314	Open it and I'll open it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0255par0315	Well, Mr. Altay, let's take this as an evaluation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0316	No, won't you listen to me? Sir, I'd have just finished by now. Now, it will be cut, if you promise me one more minute.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0255par0317	Okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0319	I'm sorry to hear that this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; we argue amongst ourselves, we argue. Mr. Tuncay Özkan said from the stand: "Two sons of the country, one of our members of the National Intelligence Agency has been kidnapped."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0256par0320	The head of the apartment.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0321	It's top-notch; it doesn't matter if it's low-level. He expressed a sadness, almost laughing at the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0257par0322	That's out of the question.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0258par0323	No, nothing like that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0324	That hurt me. That's what I was gonna say. That's what I was gonna say.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0259par0326	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0260par0327	That's not the case.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0328	That's it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0260par0329	No, it didn't.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0330	Open it up.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0260par0331	We don't accept that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0253par0332	All right, open the transcripts.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0261par0333	Mr. Ünal, I give you my word. Please...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0262par0335	Please continue the negotiations.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0261par0336	Well, thank you for understanding. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 Yes, Adıyaman MP Mr. Abdurrahman Tutdere is in line. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0263par0387	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, when we look at human history, parliaments have become the places of freedom. Our Veteran Assembly also has a history of freedoms, and our Veteran Assembly has a history of democracy that builds the country in Turkey. Dear MPs, the legislature and audit duties of the Turkish Grand National Assembly are by the Constitution. In particular, however, the 2017 referendum and then the presidential government system, which took effect in 2018, and the powers of our Veteran Parliament, have been compromised and our Veteran Parliament's authority to conduct audits on behalf of the nation has been completely eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, how do we know that? The only weapon controlled by members of our parliament, lawmakers, is a written question motion in accordance with our Constitution. In the 27th Legislature, Parliamentary Presidency was granted 55,294 written questions, only 6,809 were answered by the executives, which was answered after the deadline of the 27,323 question motion, including 34,132 who had been asked to act and not even responded. When we look at this picture, the administration of the presidential government does not account for lawmakers who represent the nation. Lawmakers are unable to complete their audit duties because they do not answer their MPs' questions during the time they ask them. The same is true of parliamentary research proposals, and the same is true of law proposals. The presidential government system lacks an appropriate negotiating environment in parliament. Law proposals from the ministries pass through commissions with a majority of fingers, and the General Assembly has the same law. Unfortunately, there are no qualified laws here in the House lately. For example, the latest law for the Turkish Bar Association came up here. You made the law to elect one president; what happened? There was a convention this weekend, and the person you passed the law against lost it. What happened to your law? You've got it, it's gone. Parliament therefore cannot make qualified laws in this government system at this time. Also, valued lawmakers have authorized the President to issue a decree in parallel with the legislature of the presidency's government system. So, when we look at the painting, the only person who has issued 87 decrees has issued 2,534 decrees. The National Assembly of 600 made 200 laws, 2.646 articles of law. When we look here, there's not one man who's ever eaten, drank, slept, made a law. When we look at this painting, Mr. President wrote not only the economy, but also the law. Here's the painting of your president's one-man regime bringing our House, our country; here, my friends, here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, of course, there are some irregularities in the House where we are now under its roof. There's a lot of injustice, especially in terms of wages for members of the House. We've said this many times, but the Speakership is being insensitive from here. Parliamentary office can't protect its employees' rights, its staff's rights, its law. The legislature has a fundamental duty to protect the House's reputation, but what we've been going through this semester has shown that the House can't even uphold its own representatives' rights. In this parliament, elected MPs were taken into custody at the same time as police, sent to prison. We, as Parliament, have submitted the law of lawmakers to the high courts, so the reputation of our House has been undermined. It's the Speaker's job to protect the House's reputation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0264par0395	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0263par0396	There's a Minister of the Interior who comes out and buys 10,000 lira a month in bribes from the Mafia. He says, "The Speaker of Parliament is watching." Here's what you've done with the country. Dear MPs, I am summing up the budget of 2022 of the EC PARTY: there is no bread in this budget for the people who own the kingdom, and there is no bread in this budget, my friends. Again, I am recaping where the economic policies of the 19-year-old AK PARTI rule bring Turkey: the heroic needy dry onions! This is Turkey, directed by the AK PARTY. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0265par0400	This is Mr. Mahmut Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0403	Everyone's wondering what's in the bag, but we'll get it out. Mr. President, I'd appreciate it if you didn't start it, but I'm sorry.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0267par0405	Mr. President, the business was banned. They rebooted it in Congress.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0268par0406	Brother Mahmoud, what will come out of the hat?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0407	The rabbit will come out of the hat.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0269par0408	Mr. Mahmut, let's get started.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0409	I'm sorry. I'll get right on it. Dear President, I have made a commitment to the Parliamentary budget of 2022. I salute you all with respect and respect. There's a lot to talk about, but today I'm going to tell you a different story. I'm going to tell you about the House where the powers are turned into birds. Now I'm going to tell you about a coven that's a place of luxury and luxury, a place of love. What is this? There's a whole corridor in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have any of you ever gone? I'm asking you to take a walk down that hall, where the former Speakers' office rooms were built. How many are there? Actually, there are 10 Speakers, but there are nine Speakers in those fancy rooms. Who's there? İsmail Kahraman, İsmet Yilmaz, Cemil Cicek, Mehmet Ali Şahin, Koksal Toptan, Bkent Arinc, Ömer Izgi, Mustafa Kalekli, Cahit Karakaş, but each of them has three staff at their disposal, including the power tools, fuels. At the same time, Mr. Bakili Beyi, the Izmir MP, I'll tell you about him under another title; there are ten with him. The predecessors of Mr. Mustafa Sentop have come to the House once a month, so why do you need a big room for tea and coffee? I mean, this is the title of Speaker of Parliament, which is very, very heavy, very good, in a spiritual sense; is that necessary? Besides, the former Speakers have been assigned a vehicle. I'd be happy to inform Mr. Bilç if there's been an absorption of fuel. Besides, what's the amount of fuel they give you? Let them explain this to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What kind of conscience would that really fit into? So here you're going to have 10 Speakers, you're going to give them cars, you're going to give them staff, you're going to give them a room, you're going to give them a phone, you're going to electrocute them, you're going to give them water, you're going to give them electricity in the citizen's house, you're going to give them water. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's a man here who's still a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who still hasn't left Congress, but he's in the halls of former Parliament Speakers, who's been assigned the office room, and I'm going to talk about Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, who has recently been elected chairman of the EC Party Group. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz served as the shortest Parliamentary President in the history of the Republic of Turkey, with the taste of changing seats on April 23rd, but he can't give up that office. Guys, I don't...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0270par0415	It's an early election...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0416	This isn't a theater, ma'am. Now, don't take this as a theater, I'll tell you how one man managed to do this. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz was head of the National Defence Commission until a few weeks ago, where he was assigned a car with this hat, where he was head of the National Defence Commission. Two, if he didn't drive that vehicle, what vehicle did he drive? Let them give you an answer. Now, when he's bored here, the former Speaker goes to his room, leaves this hat, now he's wearing this hat. There's the Speaker's room, and he's wearing this hat on the way to that room, and I left this hat. Now, Mr. Ismet Bey, who replaces Mr. Bostancı with the AK PARTY Group, wears that hat when he goes to the AK PARTY Group, which is a different hat. Now, I don't know which is the best, but the public will answer that, but the AK PARTI Group's number one room has been assigned to him, but he's wearing the new hat he bought on his way to the AK PARTY Group. The name is indispensable, Mr. Yilmaz Bey, who was Minister of National Defence in the 61,62,64th government. Yeah, well, I got to hand it to Mr. Ismet, Congress gave him a car, he refused the vehicle, he's using the National Defence Minister's vehicle, he shouldn't be using any of it. No Parliament Speaker should be assigned a vehicle in the power of the National Alliance. Three personnel must not be assigned. These rooms should not be reserved. Electricity, water money must not be paid. What's the moral title of this Speaker of Parliament that's not enough, that's enough for the seven generations, what's a better inheritance than that? There's nothing better to inherit than this, but I'm afraid in this case. And in the same case, let me tell you about Mr. Buli Bey.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0271par0420	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0421	Mr. Buli Bey's, sir, look, Mr. Ismet's sign is like this, and so is Mr. Buli, but do you know what he's doing? He's leaving in a motorcade in 10 cars, leaving with at least seven vehicles as the current Speaker of Parliament leaves. Yeah, what's the big deal, people are hungry and miserable, and Mr. Tuncay just told me -- people can't bring bread to their kids.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0272par0422	Lies!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0423	Is that a lie? I'll say shameless man, but I apologize, come look at the CCTV footage, the surveillance footage.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0272par0424	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0425	Look at the CCTV footage, have him bring it in, the Deputy Speaker is here. Bring it on, who's lying, me or you?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0273par0427	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0428	Here, here, bring the surveillance footage. Whoever's lying here, I'm gonna say it harder, it doesn't fit my manners, education, party discipline, party morality. There's the surveillance footage.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0273par0430	Yes, thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0431	Now, look, last word, last word, last word.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0273par0432	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0433	I'm finishing. Mr. Speaker, this is Nasuhi Güngör, this is the staff here. Haberturk is coming out as a news commentator. How could you do this? He comes and criticizes all other opposition parties. Do you have a conscience?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0273par0435	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0266par0436	Both the parliament will receive a salary and the insurance will be paid, and Haberturk will receive a political commentator. This is your signature and staff here...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0273par0437	Mr. Tanal, thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0274par0440	Or on the level.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0275par0441	Mahmoud, give me one of those hats so I can wear it to the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0276par0442	First of all, this matter of Nasuhi Güngör... and I'm sorry that you're going to answer him.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0277par0443	Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0276par0444	He'll come out as a newswriter. That's your responsibility. So that's your responsibility.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0277par0445	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0276par0446	Let the public know about Nasuhi Güngör.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0277par0447	Yes, this is Mr. Sevda Erdan Kılıç. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0278par0450	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. A hundred and a year ago, the people of our Veterans Congress led our National Liberation Fight under difficult conditions, leaving us a glorious date, a secular republic with all its institutions, and factories that worked smoothly until the reign of you thieves.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0279par0453	Mr. President, I don't know what that means.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0278par0454	Dear lawmakers, now the House has told us about our friends, they're dysfunctional.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0280par0455	We want clean language, clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0278par0456	Our written question proposals, the most important control tools, are unresponsive.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0280par0457	We want clean language, Mayor, clean language.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0278par0458	Court reports are also censored. This period, the 55,294 question motion was answered by 18,053, and 27,323 were answered in violation of the Constitution. We already know that the appointed ministers don't have any sense of responsibility towards elected MPs and the public, but we can't accept that there's no mention of a violation of the Constitution, but know that even if you try to normalize the Constitutional violations, we'll always remember that, and we'll certainly ask for their account. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, every year, I'll say it again this year: an institution that can't do justice for itself cannot bring justice to the country. Parliamentary employees have different status and different salaries, you know, they need to be arranged with the same amount of work as soon as possible, and we have traveling friends, consultants, and they need to have an immediate arrangement on their rights and severance. Dear lawmakers, there is a report from the Commission, which has been appointed by the Court of Justice to conduct external audits of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, says in this report: Some tuition statements have not been made legally and legal interest has been calculated, and these have been deducted from the salaries of the concerned; 70 lira 27p, 36p, 73p, 18 cents. In fact, in a country where millions of government banks have taken out loans and supporters don't pay them, Demirören Group doesn't pay $750 million from Agriculture Bank, East Construction hasn't paid any taxes in the last three years, Genghis Construction has paid no taxes in 2018, Özltın Construction has never paid the taxes of institutions in 2020, and Limak Construction has never paid any institution taxes in 2019-2020. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, this nation, where you let thousands of tradesmen and companies go down, when you abandoned millions of unemployed, poor and helpless people to its fate, when you emptied its pockets for the happiness of a small minority, has paid $2 trillion in taxes and done their duty in the last five years. Where did these people's taxes go? Of course, you know, he went to the five-packs, the palace feeder's bilateral, triple, five salary, and we know very well that our people will close their accounts in the first election for those who seek money by giving birth to a citizen in every disaster. Dear lawmakers, we have a lot of responsibility to this country. We have a responsibility to save our country from the mentality that puts the law enforcement on the law enforcement force, prevents it from doing its job, not the perpetrator, but the one who arrested it. To put out a fire, we need to save this country from the mindset, not from science, but from the rain prayer of the Dianet. We have a responsibility to save our country from the mindset that protects women's killers, that kills women with pepper spray, baton, and TOMA. (HPP) We have a responsibility to free this country from this manly mentality, which cannot grow a moustache of its own free will, but only talks about the Istanbul Convention, while one man withdraws from the contract. We have a responsibility to save our country from this mentality that sells products to its ministry and gets away with it. We have a responsibility to save our country from those who are rich in free loans from public banks when the farmer can't sow, can't harvest, can't collect, can't afford, can't afford to sell. We have a responsibility to free our country from this mentality that ignores the age of pensioners, non-assigned teachers, engineers, paramedics, those who look forward to it with hope.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0281par0465	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0278par0466	Artists, young people, fathers who can't afford to buy their children's pants, mothers who can't afford to go to market, we have a responsibility to save this country from poverty, from the mentality that makes a budget for supporters who are rich in this nation's taxes. Dear lawmakers, we have a responsibility to save our country from one man's mentality and one man's palace, the only man who, when it comes to taking responsibility, is the only man who, finally, can't break down and bring his people home with money. So, this budget will be your last budget, these seats will be your last seat, coming up says, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0282par0470	Mr. President, I'll tell you one thing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0283par0471	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0282par0472	Please, I'd like to ask you to apply the Civil Code 66, 67, because the Civil Code 66 clearly requires that the president be warned if the witness is out of the question. At the same time, the Civil Code 67 requires a clean language. I'll return his testimony with the same as Haramzade.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0284par0474	Let's talk about a budget.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0282par0475	Then why are we doing this board?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0284par0476	Let's talk about a budget.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0282par0477	Then let's not make these calls.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0284par0478	The budget you made when the dollar was $8 is $14, and you're bringing it to Congress.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0282par0479	Then let's not make these calls. Shouldn't we?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0285par0480	Then don't take the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0284par0481	It's like he's making fun of people.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0286par0482	It's the misuse of resources, poverty.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0287par0483	Yes, thank you, Mr. Group Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0288par0484	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0287par0485	We're still in negotiations, so...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0288par0486	We just got word. While the Minister is here, according to 60, I demand a word as Deputy Director of the Group. It's not about the speeches, Mr. President. I'll make a brief statement according to 60.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0287par0487	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0288par0488	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have just received word that İhsan Southern, who works as a cook in the mess hall of the Antalya İlim and Cultural Association -- short name Alim Association -- has been quoted in the press as cutting the head of a student named Mehmet Sami Tuğrul, a student of the Mediterranean University Computer Engineering class. The Minister of Youth and Sports in charge of the dorms is here today. Will this ministry, which has failed to accommodate our students in a public home and condemns them to community homes, make a statement about it? I offer it to the public. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0289par0537	It's up to Mr. Alpay Antmen, the MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Antmen.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0290par0540	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Public Control Agency in the budget of 2022, which will be AKP's final budget. The Public Control Agency is a Parliamentary institution that performs a very important task. Its task is to examine, investigate, and make suggestions on the actions and procedures of the administration from the aspects of law and justice based on human rights. They're trying to do a very important job, but the agency's job is very difficult, because there's no one in the AKP who's ever followed law and justice. I hope the AKP ruling institution, which does not obey the law, obeys its recommendations, and must. According to the agency's Action Report of 2020, in 2020, we face an incredible number of applications that were not in previous years. The number of applications from 2020 -- 90.209 -- means there's a fire -- is 71.699, the number of cases that have been resolved have been recommended to the administration 68.128. Congressmans, most of these are about banks, which means the banks have hurt people so badly that people are now applying for hope, screaming everywhere, but in addition to that, 15,000 of the Institution applications are about the ministries. 15,000 applications, 15,000 administrative applications, the number of files answered by the administration is 1,325; 13.500 applications? Unknown. Isn't that familiar, Congressman? It would be daydreaming to expect another approach from the political power, which does not respond to the questions of our MPs or ignores them with empty answers. With one man's regime, the ministers do nothing but answer to the only man and court who appoints themselves over Parliament. I'm speaking to the ministers from here: Look, these people will ask you tomorrow at the polls for the accounts you don't give to these people. (CHP) I say very clearly: all public institutions that work on public taxes must answer to everyone. You will answer to the council, you will answer to the people, you will answer to the citizens. And you will not close the gates of public institutions to anyone. If you don't answer at an institution, you can imagine the claim of theft at that institution. Whoever doesn't answer at an institution is a partner in that institution if there's a theft. I just want to give you an example: I gave TRT 15 questions in three and a half years, asking TRT's expenses. Who's TRT? The public. The answer to all the questions made was: "Ticari secret." There's no such thing as a public secret, everything is public property, you have to give away all information. (HIP rows, voices, applause) I'm very clear that the Eagle Imam Hatip team at TRT is wasting millions of dollars every month, claiming they've been siphoning. Again, from insider information, I share with you: there are allegations that the committees, the firms, and the people who choose the films, the people who choose the productions, are getting commissions. If they're buying, they're buying. We're asking these questions. You're saying "Ticari secret." What are you hiding from the citizen? We're asking the Turkish Airlines of the people, everything from Turkish Airlines is a commercial secret. We're asking about unpaid loans, $750 million. We're asking about the rights of the citizen, the unfinished orphan. We're asking about the tax on the disposable contractors. It's a trade secret. What isn't? Nothing. Why? We don't answer to the citizen. All those who call our proposals a trade secret are considered to be part of the thefts. I'm telling you clearly, the one who is afraid of the question is actually afraid of the answer. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, do you know why public supervision is so important?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0291par0547	I can't hear you. A little louder.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0292par0548	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0290par0549	I'm completing it, Mr. President. All actions and procedures of the administration must be enforced by the law, and all actions and procedures must be monitored. The administration, political power, must first answer to the Parliament, then to the people, but the parallel state established in the palace under one man's regime doesn't answer to anyone. The people are hungry, 50 million live under the poverty line, 15 million living under the poverty line. What are the palaces and palaces doing? What are the palace contractors doing? You're searching for the tulip era of the Ottomans. They live in luxury, in luxury. Planes, luxury vehicles, powdered sugars, yachts, floors, and tenders guaranteed with exchanges, as if this country were the pies of Marauding Hassan. Shame on you! The job of a public inspector is difficult, but it's coming, and this is your last budget, the next budget will be the public budget in the people's power. My respects.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0293par0555	You'd better wait!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0294par0556	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0290par0557	Come, let's go to the chest if you dare! Go to the market, walk around the market, see the people! Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0295par0558	Thank you, Mr. Antmen.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0294par0559	Sit down!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0290par0560	You don't know the public!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0295par0561	This is İstanbul MP İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0296par0564	Mr. President, the Court, the esteemed MPs, the Constitutional Court must be strengthened and effective. In 2017 the administration, political decision-making structures, political responsibility was lifted; the execution was given to one person for the first time. Through the leadership of the Party, the state and the administration have broken down the traditional state management structure based on the state, politics, management, and the chaos of this situation has been reflected in budget talks in a concrete way.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0297par0565	Teacher, is it right to give you five minutes?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0298par0566	Is it right to give a teacher five minutes?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0299par0567	Hey, listen to me first!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0300par0568	In fact, the person who has monopoly authority over the administration is not in the budget that is identified by the state's presence. In practice, the person who is ready and in charge of everything is not where they should be; the Turkish Grand National Assembly is the issue of the budget. We're talking about the Constitutional Court's audit and its influence in this environment. The Constitutional Court established on the European model must be evaluated in accordance with the comparative constitutional judiciary data in its 60th year, in accordance with its institutional purposes. The Constitutional Court's decisions are firm and binding, and there should be no discussion on this issue.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0301par0570	Leave what's done in the classroom, Hajji.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0302par0571	Teacher, do you have students there?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0300par0572	It is appropriate and beneficial to criticize the Constitutional Court's decisions, but not to recognize them, not to enforce them, and threatening to close the Constitutional Court is an attempt to destroy and commit constitutional order. The norms' hierarchy has been reversed. The President's decrees are often prepared in the form of constitutional and bagless form, without exception, rather than for public benefit as political leadership and legal regulation through the party's presidency, which was established under the Constitutional amendment in 2017, which is foreign to our political constitutional history. The Supreme Assembly, which cannot set its own agenda in the proposal of the law, has no objection to making a clear violation of the Constitution's authoritarian and prohibitive clauses; again, it refrains from controlling the control areas of the CBK. The amendments that conflict with the Constitutional Court's decisions are re-lawed without being taken to the Constitutional Commission. Turkey's Grand National Assembly refrains from making arrangements that the Constitutional Court and the European Court must make under pilot's decisions. In this case, effective application to the Constitutional Court for the Republican People's Party is not only a constitutional obligation but also a historical responsibility, but even the most effective, expert Constitutional Court rapporteurs in the face of this destruction created. In this regard, the Court of the Constitution must be made to stand in the whole judiciary for a fair trial to reduce its workload. The Constitutional Court has increased workloads, not just because it has too much work burden, but because of the pressures. The recognition of the individual right to apply at 12/9/2010 is an indication that the European Court and the European Convention have been taken seriously. Therefore, reform would have to be made throughout the judiciary, the Constitutional Court would have been effective on the basis of all the needs of the fair judiciary in the individual application, but since this was not done, only in the first 11 months of 2021, the 130 violations of rights are spreading to 21 rights, a very large area. But the Constitutional Court is on a case that can only be decided in 15 months. The CBKs wait 17 months, but have a serious agenda problem, the most vital laws, the law on the continuation of the OHAL, number 1. Laws passed on the rules of the lu CBK or the re-lawed Constitutional Court are still held three years later; this is a serious problem. In short, the Constitutional State of Emergency is under way. So, what does it take to make the Constitutional Court effective?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0303par0575	Let's finish it, please, Hajji.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0300par0576	Thank you, Mr. President. Once in a while, he must absolutely respect the Constitutional clauses concerning the law, the law, and the independence of the judiciary. The decision of the Constitutional Court is binding, not binding. The dare of it to speak should not be taken from this bench; it is absolutely unacceptable. The Court of the Constitution shall abide by its decisions, and those who disobey shall be subjected to sanction. In this case, there are things that must be done first; a great task falls on the House. The Constitutional Court must be inspired by European counterparts while implementing interpretation techniques, and then its decisions must be carried out without question. Yes, it is an urgent task to build a democratic law state in order to save the Republic of Turkey. First of all, the basic institutions of the republic are in the legislature, the executive, the judiciary; the separation of men whose judiciary is independent, the government can account for, the constitutional balance and control structures are known...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0304par0580	Let him finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0305par0581	Thank you, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0300par0582	...a democratic law state constitutional requirement is clear. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0305par0585	This is Hatay MP Suzan Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0306par0588	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Court's budget. The Court controls Turkey's Grand National Assembly, but as some misunderstandings, it does not depend on the TBMM. The Court is an independent constitutional institution which essentially controls for the public and the community. It is the most decisive historical feature of modern democracies to again be inspected for the purpose of paying taxes on citizens to pay public expenses. Thus, the independence of institutions such as the Court is not only the duty of politicians, but it is a matter for all our people to be scrupulous. Although the Court has been reduced from the efficiency and activity control plane to a simple performance control, the category of transactions, the category of institutions, which is kept outside the Court's control is becoming increasingly common, and this, of course, is a severe blow to the rule of law; the Fund of Beings, which is exempted from supervision, is the greatest proof of that. Thus, the unsupervised rose garden, which the AKP wanted, was quickly created. All mechanisms, such as the State Planning Agency, the State Control Agency and the Court, have been evacuated. After reviewing the contents, it appears that the control authority specified by the Constitution and Law 6085 has been effectively eliminated. Escape from independent judiciary and independent control is a whole and a violation of the Constitution is an escape from democracy. The inspectors are under pressure today. This is evident when regularity is removed from the report and censored by the reading committees of the findings made in the audit reports. It is clear that there is no transparency, that there are no names in the reports, and there are no numbers in missing income collections. The economic depression and the reputation of Turkey, which has been reduced to 83 million in the coming period today, have been the biggest disaster the AKP's waste and corruption regime has dragged into the country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, today's dollar is $13.8 on September 5, 2021, when the mid-term programme, which is the basis of this budget, was published. In the last three months, the budget has been tough without passing through parliament with the conscious turbulence the AKP has created in the economy. The Minister who made the budget resigned and fled. AKP President Erdogan and the secret minister of the treasure, society's son-in-law, killed the budget before it was even born. In fact, this conspiracy wasn't just a ring. Dear lawmakers, conspiracy is also a conspiracy against power, and they are in a tragic position. Mr. Erdogan has not informed you before that he will follow such economic policy. Unforeseeable economic policies and budgetations for the runt, not for the public, have returned to the citizens as increases, taxes and hunger. Thanks to those who brought Turkey into its 19-year reign, budgets are inadequate today, and the public is devastated. In many areas from education to social justice, democracy to equality, the AKP, which has made the country worse than the third world countries, is funding not for farmers, workers, students, but for waste, luxury, hospitality costs, allies, brokers. The AKP is responsible for today's economic depression, which makes Turkey the champion of the increase in Europe, the one that makes Turkey the champion of taxes and midnight decision to starve the citizen, scaling Turkish lira and enriching its allies and foreign partners. Low interest, high currency, high inflation, and those consciously intent on putting the taxpayer's taxes into their pocket, the cameras face the cameras every day, shamelessly and tirelessly, as if they don't start the day with news of a new raise, whose wife, husband, family, and child are getting eight salaries from the state. No outside forces, no economic warfare, the people who mock the nation's minds with the war of survival. It's not the public, it's the Ranta; it's those who make a budget for corruption, not the service, that are responsible for the lack of predictive management. Yes, it's the AKP and its junior partner, Congressman.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0307par0594	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0306par0595	Turkey was ranked 117 (17) among the 139 countries in the 2021 Rule of Law Index; Turkey was ranked 107 (7) the previous year. Turkey is the 21st of the 156 countries in the World Misfortune Index, and Turkey is the 1st among the European countries. According to the Corruption Perception Index, Turkey was ranked 86, among the 180 countries. In the last eight years, we have maintained our position among the five most regressing countries. This statistical data has shown once again that the AKP no longer manages and created a Turkey on the edge of the cliff. There is no law that the AKP has not passed to be audited, not to be questioned; there is no such thing as forgiveness in its languages, but no matter what they do now, nothing escapes the public's eyes. There's no way we can accept this conspiracy budget that no patriot can swallow. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't worry, it's the final budget of exploitation; it's the final interest budget! If you have the guts to bring it, see! Incoming!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0307par0600	This is Mr. Ednan Arslan of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0308par0603	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of our party group on the EPDK budget. I salute your high council. The EPDK is a very important institution that directly affects the lives of 84 million people by its duties and decisions. Unfortunately, with every passing day, citizens' energy costs are increasing, we wake up every day with a new raise. Just now, before we got here, 66 cents of engine increase came in, and the engine's prices went through double digits. In the last three years, the number of subscribers who have been cut off because they haven't paid their bill is 12 million. The natural gas of 5 million subscribers has been cut off, while 15,382 industrial companies have unfortunately had to break production. In 2016, an electric bill of 230 kilowatts was $ 94, while today it was $210. From last August to today, the bill for a family of four has increased by 250 lira monthly -- natural gas, electricity and gas bills. I'd like to remind you that the president of an industrial room has said about energy, because the result is that energy has increased from 8 to 12 percent, but when he said that, the dollar wasn't so dry, and the energy prices weren't this high. But Mr. Secretary still claims we used the cheapest natural gas. Look, there are a number of findings made by the Court regarding the EPDK budget. EPDK fines companies who don't meet their obligations in energy markets, who are corrupt, but, for some reason, they can't be collected. By 2020, they were fined $3 billion,848 million, but only 395 million has been collected. Another assessment is that the gas companies of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly, the presidency, and even the Ministry of Energy, should not be paid for natural gas guarantees in public institutions. So, what's the security price? It's a once-in-a-lifetime fee to ensure their purchases by the distribution company. So, unfortunately, our distribution companies don't trust our government's institutions. Minister, I've shown you this compass in our Commission talks. And a farmer brought it unto me, and gave it unto me in Viranşehir. Look, it says here: it's a payment compass. It's got some money written on it and go and deposit it in that account." he says. Yeah, we couldn't even do the billing properly. Would you pay a bank if you were handed a compass like this? Is there such a pattern in the world? (CHEERING) Unfortunately, this is what you've brought our country to. Please, Mr. Secretary, let's end this mess. You're giving the farmer a payment note. Go to the bank and deposit this." he says. Yeah, that bill has the first index, the last index, how much does the tariff charge? Which one of these can the farmer control from here, which one can look at, citizen or what can he claim on this payment compass? Please, let's put an end to this primitiveity as soon as possible. One of our major problems is the missing fugitive costs. Look, the number of missing fugitives in our country is 11 to 12 per cent, which means that every $100 bill we pay has a missing 11 to 12 lira fugitive price in it. Our electricity production last year is at 306 billion kilowatts. About 35 billion kilowatts of this are missing fugitives. What is the monetary value of this? When we calculate it, we come up with a price like $26 billion, so we put $26 billion into the pockets of these companies each year as a cost of missing money from the pocket of an honest citizen. (CHP) These missing fugitive costs must be reduced and brought to the level of OECD countries. We're taking the missing fugitive's price, and we're doing this, Mr. Minister: What if the decent man is paying for it, and we're taking his VAT? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0309par0611	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0308par0612	So the missing fugitive pays for the VAT, too, an honest citizen. So, what are these companies doing about the missing fugitive, Mr. Secretary? We're asking questions, and every question we ask is a trade secret, but a company answered it. We said, what are you doing about this missing fugitive? What are the provisions of your contract on this? The answer is this: "Our company's privatisation agreement does not have any provisions concerning the missing fugitive. Why should it be found? Do you care about your company fighting a missing fugitive? He's taking bills out of the pockets of a decent citizen, and unfortunately, we're watching it. So, what's the EPDK doing? The estimated rates of the missing fugitive are being set up; the citizen is charged with censoring the bills so he doesn't see the share of his pocket for the missing fugitive, and prevents the cost by billing the bills in a bag. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This needs to be fixed as soon as possible. I salute you all with love and respect, and I wish you the best of our last budget by saying, "Here we come."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0310par0617	In turn, Mr. Tacettin Bayir. Here you go, Mr. Ridge.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0311par0620	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Energy Ministry budget regarding the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. In the last three years, electricity, natural gas, coal, gasoline, mazota, and LPG have been raised far more than expected. As a result of extreme increases, it is undeniable that pensioners, workers, farmers, small tradesmen and civil servants can't pay these outrageous bills and suffer enormous losses. The raises aren't really affordable. Therefore, as Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu said, the black winter fund must be formed immediately. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, we have never heard the words "Turkish Oil Anonymous" or "BOOTAŞ" in the Talks of the Plan and Budget Commission. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you now, are these institutions connected to you or not? He's connected to another department, and we don't know? Does the fact that these two institutions have been transferred to the Entity Fund and that their audits are being conducted by the CSI Commission prevent you from saying anything about them, or do you want to remove them from the OSCE Commission? Mr. Secretary, as your party president has done, you are implementing decisions made in energy-related decisions without considering the views of sector representatives. I've done it, it's done. The state can't be ruled by its understanding. I'm afraid our citizen is paying the pain prescription for the wrong policies you've implemented, and it's getting poorer and poorer every day. If you can't find a solution, you can't do it. If you can't, just let us come and do it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, why do you want to privatize TEİAS despite the fact that TEİAS has doubled its profits by three per year? Three institutions are of great importance to our country. We do not find the privatisation of TEIAŞ, TPAO, BOTASH, and give up this wasteful, wasteful attitude of our fathers' property, selling the values of the republic. Not long ago, a year ago, you gave the Qatars 10 per cent of the Stock Exchange for foreign currency entry, and every year you continue to sell state institutions as your father's property. The job of those who run the country is not to sell and try to survive, but to make the state stronger by making more and more money, by investing. Dear friends, every penny that Turkish lira loses against dollars comes back to us as a raise. We're paying a heavy price for being addicted to the outside of energy. As a result, the tradesman faces twice the rent price, and the citizen is currently paying $300 for the $200 bill he paid at the beginning of the year. The industrialist is already finished; a week ago, the natural gas used to produce industry and electricity increased by 20 per cent; in November, 48 per cent had already been increased, and if so, our production-loving industrialists would lose their competitiveness and become unable to export abroad. We need to take precautions as soon as possible. Mr. President, the honorable lawmakers have reported in the newspapers that there has been a savings of $6 billion in six years in summer hours. Today, Minister Günz said the use of summertime reduces stress and depression. Mr. Secretary, are you also receiving this data from TİK? As the minister couldn't explain how he did the math, he must have gotten his hands on the science of psychology, and I thought the Minister was an electrical and electronic engineer, and it turns out he was also trained in psychology. Although, we're used to it, by the way, when you call the ministers to give advice to the citizens, do you call them sweaters? Do you call them natural gas? Do you call them natural gas? The citizen probably doesn't think they're smart enough to give it to the citizens. There is no scientific data to confirm what the Minister of Savings said. What criteria are you basing on? How do we know if we're doing the right math? We need you to explain the Stabil Time Evaluation Report immediately.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0312par0632	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0311par0633	Our underground and above-ground resources should be made by the government agency MTA, but today, unfortunately, they have been given to supporters. The concept of the land that you boasted so much has become questionable. Penalties that the EPDK has failed to collect are worth ten years' income from the institution. MAPEG is unable to track down the recipients in his sentences, such as the EPDK. Electric energy funds collected from the citizens are still not being deposited into the Ministry account, and the ministry has yet to establish a system that will co-trace it with the Treasury. 37 energy companies collected electricity from citizens, but the Ministry didn't deposit it into their account. By the way, where's 128 billion dollars? My respects to all of you. Incoming!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0313par0639	In turn, Mr. Aysu Bankoglu, Bart's MP. Here you go, Mr. Bankoglu.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0314par0642	Thank you, Mr. President. We're really out of words. You know, if you talk to a wall, the wall will grow, but the AKP government is worse than the wall. We've done good things, congratulate us. You say, let's do good. You've been criticized for years for your unregistered youth policies, and you're not telling me, "Are you?" I'm really congratulating you. If you remember, I've given you Oscar for unemployment and unhappiness in the last few years on behalf of young people; unfortunately, you've got the situation very wrong; the youth unemployment of 2018 is up to 25 per cent today; university unemployment is up to 14 per cent; neither in education nor in employment has 30 per cent. It's hard not to appreciate your courage. Inflation is 50 percent. In this country, university students are trying to live on $650 and eat at $19 in dorms. You say this is the standard of the world. Dear friends, please experience this world standard. One day you can stay in those dorms you call the world standard, and one day you can stay and try to eat with $19 and try to live on $650 a month. Yeah, your Ministry just rented 494 cars for 80.5 million. What could you do with it? You could give a scholarship to 2.5 million students for four years. You're supposed to be against interest, but you want student loans back with interest. Why don't you erase these interest rates instead of renting luxury cars? We say delete, you don't delete; we propose, you don't hear; we ask, you don't answer; we criticize, we're bad; we say, "Make choices," you don't approach. Young people lie in parks because they can't find a place; there's no country. He says, "He's a terrorist." For example, in Bartin, there is no water in the land. You threaten to expel young people who shout, and act. You say, "There is no money." You say, "Let it be in your hand, your knee." You say, "There is no work." You say, "My dear, will every college graduate get a job too?" He's going abroad, young people, he's got a brain drain, he's going on a trip. You call him that. I'm telling you, you have no shame at all. (CHP rows) Perhaps your chieftains, your ministers' children may be traveling abroad, I don't know, but young people with no means of pull, no way, no way, young people moving abroad, friends, and our Ministry has nothing to do with it, you're looking at silence. You're against every word, against everything, against every action that holds a mirror; let's suppress the voicer, and when we can't hold it down, we'll throw the ball to the crown. You're very talented, I really appreciate it. When you say youth unemployment, you throw the ball to the Minister of Labor. Ya, at Boğaziçi University, you arrested students in reverse handcuffs for using constitutional rights, chasing young people in the parks in their dorm activities.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0315par0646	He gets on top of the president's car, jumps on top of it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0314par0647	They're not afraid to go out on the street, they're afraid to share something on social media. Beyza Buldağ has been arrested for participating in the Bosphorus protests; students' scholarships have been cut because of their participation in the protests, do you know that? Young people complain that there is no freedom of expression, but it's none of your business, the horse's ball to the Minister of Justice. Remzi Ersu, a medical student who had to work in construction to make money, lost his life, and that's none of your business? Samet, who was confiscated from his wheelbarrow by collecting paper when he was 13 years old, is that none of your business, too? Throw the ball to the Minister of Labor, throw the ball to the Home Secretary. The only thing you're dealing with, KYK, is that you screwed up. Yesterday, the dorms held by Å are in Ensar, TUGVA, today. Yesterday, a thousand of the congregations that deceived you, all over the country, why didn't you give them to the KYK and not to the congregations? There's college inflation in this country, brain migration in this country; young people are unhappy, no freedom of speech, no justice, no future.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0316par0648	He's gone, Aysu Bankoglu, he's Mahmoud Tanal, and he's out of style.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0314par0649	You've divided 3 percent of your budget into young people, and you're sitting here because I'm the Minister of Youth. (CHEERING) If you hadn't bothered, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0317par0651	Well, Mr. President, what kind of statement is that?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0318par0652	Yeah, low levels in this country...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0319par0653	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0320par0654	If you hadn't bothered, if you'd really taken youth out of the Ministry's name, you'd both be saved and the young people would be saved.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0318par0655	That's right, General President. That's the way it is, Congressman!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0320par0656	In fact, I brought you his sign so you wouldn't bother.'And I'm sorry I couldn't get rid of it, but...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0318par0658	That's how a general president looks like an MP.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0321par0659	He's gone, it's Mahmoud Tanal. It's not right for you. It's not right for you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0320par0660	I will address my young friends, my last word to them, as Leonard Cohen said: "Everyone knows the ship is watered, the captain is lying, everyone knows the dice are rigged." But it's almost coming, it's coming. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0321par0663	There's Mahmoud Tanal. What do you need him for?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0322par0664	You're the vice president of the group...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0323par0665	That's the kind of congressman the President would look like.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0324par0666	People saw who was on the stand yesterday; relax, people saw it yesterday on the stand, relax, people saw it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0325par0667	It's a long-haired version of Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0323par0668	That's the way it is with the President General. What else?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0326par0669	In order to speak, Mr. Free Karabat. Here you go, Mr. Karabat.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0327par0672	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As you all know, Turkey has recently been put on the gray list, accused of not taking necessary measures in laundering black money and financing terrorism. Why am I saying this? Fighting black money is also a fight against illegal bet, also the Mafia, but also drugs. I'd like to tell you something about our Ministry right now. Our legal betting contract was made, given to the Blackguard group, and he has an Italian partner. I was curious about this Italian partner, and I wanted to go on the website, and when I came in, I came across a barrier, and he said, "Warning!," and he said, "Do you know what a warning is, dear friends? ▪ The illegal bet can be used to finance terrorism. An illegal bet could incriminate you. He says. Which firm? The Italian company that bought our bet deal with the blacksmith is running an illegal betting business. Who's singing? Turkey's Telecommunication Communications President says so. Now, in this case, how can our fight against illegal betting be effective, dear friends, when the lamb has been entrusted to the wolf? I'm curious about that, and I'd like to ask you a few questions while the Minister is here. He's fighting the fugitive bet. We raised the legal bet's budget from 28 billion to 64 billion, he says. Now, why don't the clubs get their share? I'm curious. I'd like to ask you if this number is suspicious. I'm asking the Minister: there's been an operation in all ministries, all institutions. Oh, for God's sake, did you ever run into this operation? I'm curious. Has there ever been an operation in the National Directorate for Sports Toto? I'm curious. I'm asking the Minister if MASAK has asked you for an illegal bet-fighting budget; did you give it to him? That's what I'm wondering, that's what I'm asking. I'm asking you: why isn't the MASAK reporting lists awarding a tip about the illegal bet? Why don't you take precautions on that? And I ask you, if this betting system were legal, would Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş, Galatasaray, Tripoli, Turkish sports clubs be free of their debts with their rights? I'm curious about that. This is the sports part. Now, dear friends, we're all on the news witnessing the trouble of living for citizens, witnessing the life of pensions. Mr. Group Vice President, of course this responsibility belongs to the AKP, but we have a duty to resolve them. So I'm talking here with a big task and a big question. Our citizens are troubled. We can't talk about the budget because 40 percent of the budget melted before it got here. But I say to our young people, don't give up hope. Look, Ahmed Arif: Don't beat yourself up like that, So sad, so strange... Wherever you are, Inside, out, in class, in line The opportunist, the corrupter, the bear... With a fingernail, with a tooth With hope, love, dream. Hold on, don't humiliate me. He says, "Do you understand my hope?" (CHEERING) Here I am speaking to the young people: we hope, after all, that you, dear young men, are still you. Look, 73,000 students have left their homes; they're our hope. 1 million 73,000 young people have given up hope of finding employment, the number of young unemployed is 3.5 million; this is our hope, young people. Young people are running out of tomorrows, young people are in debt from the Credit Homes Association, 5.5 million young people and 400,000 young people have been executed by KYK. For God's sake, don't you ever get a piece of this painting? We feel its conscience, its responsibility. Don't you feel it, for God's sake? And now, let me show you something: 50,154 young people left the country, look, they flew on a plane, perhaps for the first time in their lives, to leave this country. For the first time in their lives, they boarded a plane to leave this country, 50,154 teenagers. For God's sake, don't you feel responsible for this at all? That's what I'm asking you. And I say to the young, "Don't despair, you have our hope, I want to say it."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0328par0692	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0327par0693	I'm going to show you something now. You know what this cap is? It's a mother's hope, a joy of joy that she throws in the air when her child graduates. And now these caps aren't thrown happily, and these caps are unfortunately launched in a state of indetermination. Dear friends, I would like to share with you the sadness of this. And I'd like to say that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says that we'll leave everything to youth... the hope of the future, the bright flowers. All my hope is in youth. And now I would very much like to entrust this cap to the Minister, to the future of youth to them, but unfortunately I'm desperate.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0329par0695	Don't you dare!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0327par0696	Therefore, I would like to entrust this cap to the deputy group president of the party founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to solve the problems of young people in our power. I salute you all, thank you very much.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0330par0699	I thought you were going to mention Istanbul City Hall, Istanbul City Hall.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0331par0700	The last speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Mustafa Adıl. Here you go, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0332par0703	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I salute the High Council. First of all, I'd like to talk to you about an institution within the Ministry, which is four times the revenue budget, and I'd like to talk to you about the Sports Toto Agency. Guys, don't be fooled by sports. I'd like to draw the attention of all sports public and political institutions. With today's money, 70 billion liras, 70 quadrillion liras, are distributed here unregistered and unregistered. So, why is this place chosen? Because Sports Toto is not subject to the Law on Financial Management and Control 5018, just like the Fund of Being; there are unfair payments, there are unregistered payments. The 16th page of the Court report was made clear that there was discrimination between sports federations, sports clubs, municipalities, provinces, and even schools. In the past, money has been transferred to several institutions that have been linked to ا, which have not yet been investigated, and the transfer of funds to similar structures continues today.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0333par0705	You give me a list of those institutions, you tell the same lie every time, give me a list of those institutions. Liar!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0332par0706	We ask: What associations and foundations have 103 million been paid in the Court report? There's no answer.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0333par0707	You're a liar, you're a liar, you're a big liar!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0334par0708	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0335par0709	Don't talk, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0336par0710	Mr. Secretary did the same thing with the Commission. We've been listening to him for hours, but he won't let us talk here for five minutes, we've been listening for hours, the same thing happened on the Commission. I invite you to respect it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0335par0712	You're even mixing up the coven.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0337par0713	Mr. Secretary, answer me, you're being rude, don't do it again!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0335par0714	You've even stirred up the coven, know your place!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0338par0715	Congressman, what have I done? That's a shame.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0339par0716	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0340par0717	To the foundations... Mr. President, could you add to my time? There are all kinds of money transfers to the foundations...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0341par0721	Mr. Adil, if you'll excuse me. Please, sit down, friends. Mr. Secretary, all the friends here are MPs, people elected by the public. You can't call them liars. You can't afford to call them liars, you can't find such a way of speaking, no matter who. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's move on, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0726	Now, Mr. Secretary did the same thing on the Commission, we've been listening to him for hours, he won't let us talk for five minutes. The reason for this, I would like to interrupt my speech and tell you right away that Berat is not the only son-in-law in the palace, but Mr. Butcheroglu is the son-in-law's quota, but if Butcheroglu doesn't know, he will find out.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0343par0727	It's personal, it's personal, it's rude, it's shameful!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0728	This is the only man in the state, in the palaces and in the seats, you may have heard from the groom's staff...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0344par0729	It's a shame, what you're doing!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0730	... But in the sight of this nation, gentlemen, you will learn that the days of being a groom are a priority in the state, a hundred years ago, when this Parliament opened in 1920.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0345par0731	The president's dealing with the character here. That's not gonna happen! That's not gonna happen! It's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0344par0732	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0733	Yeah, there's all kinds of ways to wire money to foundations.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0346par0734	You're insulting the Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0347par0735	Congressmans, a sentence from the stand is not heard, not including a word.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0736	Friends, you look at the transcripts, you answer.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0347par0737	If you'll excuse me, if he says anything wrong, I'll warn him, but I don't hear him.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0348par0738	The Minister has been insulted.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0739	You look at it in the transcripts, you answer if there's an insult. There are many ways to transfer money to the foundations; students' meals at KYK dorms are checked by fingerprints, but they are not checked by fingerprints, they are paid per capita. For example, a student who lives in a congregation home eats a meal - a meal - but is paid for three meals - two meals in the pocket of that foundation, friends. There are various ways to pay the foundations. In all the provinces, youth state sports directors organise joint programs with TUGVA, organise out-of-state travel, but when you say "sporters' fare," there's no money. Do you know that the women who went from the army to Yozgat (Yozgat) the previous year left at the crack of dawn to avoid the housing money, and they crashed their own van, and our two children died? Do you know that this ministry, again from the Sports Toto Organization, which pays Erdogan's Archers Foundation $3m in one piece, does not pay its own 4/D workers from March to November? [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Sports Agency has earmarked 5-6 billion ads, some for educational institutions. See, in violation of the 41st and 58th Articles of our Constitution, do you advertise bet on children and young people and games of chance? What's really interesting is that you're going to have to talk about gambling, and then you're going to transfer the money from the games of chance to the community and the foundations, and you're going to eat it with pleasure, and that's hypocrisy. And who told the publishing company, Bein Sports, that the $300 million difference will be paid from Sport Toto? Nihat Özdemir told me. Are you the president of TFF, the CEO of the publishing company, Nihat Özdemir? There's so much more.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0349par0747	Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0748	Now, in this way, the President of the Sports Toto Agency is the black box in Turkish sports, the government's covered grant. Mr. Secretary Sport is from the Toto Agency, and you think Sports has quit Toto since he became Minister, don't you? Unfortunately, you're wrong, he never left, because after he became Minister, he became President of the Sports Toto Board, and the rest of the members himself, but no one knows but himself. The Court doesn't know who these members are, we don't know what they are, they don't exist. As for the Sports Act, is it necessary to have a law that gives autonomy to all of the federation, gives financial responsibility to club management, guarantees fair, security, competition, solutions from amateur to pro to football and all other sports? It's necessary.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0349par0751	Yes, thank you, Mr. Nice Name.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0342par0752	We also have prepared as the Republican People's Party for this, but we warn you that we are bringing in the new Sports Act. If you do something that directly connects sports to the Minister, eliminates the independence of the federations, legalizes the fraud and incentives, we'll turn it into an opportunity, and you'll be in the middle. We will never allow a single-man law to be introduced in sports and to continue this dirty structure that has been donated in sports for years. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0349par0755	Mr. Good Name, thank you. The demands for the Republican People's Party Group have been met. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Ahmet Kılıç is a member of the Fellowship. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0760	Mr. President, dear members of our Veteran Assembly, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favor of myself for the first part of the 2022 budget talks. Since the day the EC PARTY came to power, it has been a movement that has walked with young people, whose energy and power have been derived from young people. During the founding years of our party, there were young people who were brought back from college because some were considered to be dangerous, some were considered to be headgears, some were not suitable, some were not. You know those so-called free academics, who were so free and so-called academic victims, who had dreams, who couldn't live, they had goals, they had a thousand obstacles set in their path to be taken away from their goals. Those young people supported our party for a freer, truly more modern Turkey. Again, the same young people supported the EC PARTY because they wanted economic development. In the evening news, the children who saw that the police vehicle was on the road because there was no funding, and they voted for our party. Young people no longer wanted to see their state in any more weakness, young people who saw colonial governors from the IMF meddle in everything that was to be done in their country, and they voted for our AK PARTI. Examples go on and on. Dear lawmakers, the AK PARTI, who have no other ambitions than to come to power and work hard to solve all the problems of the people, tell a different story to young people today, the stories that those who carry the law regulations to the Constitutional Court to help them read freely in colleges try to deceive them with what they call their social media lies. Nothing's changed in the opposition's position since the day the EC PARTY came to power; there's zero innovation, the same bowl, the same bath, they're constantly trying to compress it with vicious debates and artificial agendas. We'd like to see the opposition produce something new as we produce reforms, innovations and services in every field, but unfortunately, there isn't again, there isn't.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0351par0763	You delivered the children to the cult dorms.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0764	Our path is clear. We'll continue to work, to think, to serve the nation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0351par0765	They make children vomit blood in cult dorms. These are your innovations?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0766	Our concern is to take care of the problems of our young people, which are most of our population, and to provide them with new services.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0351par0767	You left the young in the arms of the cults.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0352par0768	They cut young people's throats.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0769	What's all this? Youth centers, many courses and educational opportunities that our young people can improve in any area...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0351par0770	You cut young people's throats to cooks. And then, because we're innovating, you come out and talk shamelessly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0771	...the use of our young people's sports fields in the neighborhoods, the giant sports complex we've built in our cities, the equality of opportunities in education through removing tuitions, new and modern student dorms, and most importantly, lowering the age of election age for them on the road to politics. This is just part of what we do for our young people. What the opposition does is manipulate our young people in their twisted mentality, distracting them with different versions of the same words and lies. We now see that politics is being done in parliament with a younger generation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0351par0772	You killed the children. You leave them in the hands of twisted minds.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0773	For that alone, I thank both my party and our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Young people who have been influenced by politics for years with no chance of entering politics have become the subject of politics because of the space our President has opened to young people with confidence in them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0351par0774	Yeah, the Z belt...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0775	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, that we, the AK PARTY, have existed with young people. Thus, young people are both our past and our present and our future. Their demands are always a priority for us.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0351par0776	You don't have to get them jobs.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0777	That's why we've made young people subject to politics, not the object of politics. By lowering the age of selection, we have allowed our young people to be represented in Parliament, we have walked with them in every aspect of politics, we have believed them, we have trusted them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0353par0779	But they don't trust you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0780	Today, the total number of members of our youth branches has exceeded the total number of members of the main opposition. This is the greatest demonstration of the confidence that the young children of this land have given us, the support they have given us.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0354par0781	You don't have to get young people jobs, but young people will pay their debts.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0782	We built projects for them, never stopped using what we had in our hands.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0354par0783	Tell them to pay you back.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0784	There have been those who say we lead young people ideologically, and there have been those who criticize us. The ideas we want to instill in our young people are a reflection of Anatolian wisdom, nothing else exists in it. We want to raise a generation that loves its country, its people, its values, and its values. We want to raise an advanced youth in science, in sports, in art, in high human values, in the needs of the age. We strive for a generation that knows every soul, cares for man, and when the day comes, will not hesitate to put its life on the line for the land of heaven.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0355par0786	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0350par0787	In short, we strive to raise our young men with the means and means that are appropriate for them in the conditions that suit the Turkish youth, with the love of the country and the nation. We will never hold back from these goals because the Turkish youth will never be driven into chaos and anarchy, as some want it to be. If we can't hold even one young person in this land and lose, we feel the consequences on our shoulders; that's our understanding, and that's what our sensitivity is for. This budget is the budget of our youth and sports community, which raises athletes who compete in the Olympics and touches young people with youth centers and sports facilities all over our country. The budget of 2022 will take further the progress we've made, and will be the basis of our new success stories, based on the expectations, demands and dreams of each of our citizens, each of our young ones. May our budget of 2022 be blessed and fortunate.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0356par0792	On behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Süzyya Sadi Bilgicic, deputy speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0357par0795	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as I begin my words, I salute you all, and wish you all the best in your work. I wish that the 2022-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the 2020-Year Central Management Computation Act's Talks and the budgets of our institutions for 2022 should be good for our nation and our state. I want to thank you all for your contribution to our esteemed deputies, who have worked so hard in the busy and exhausting budget talks. As you know, in 2020, we understood the 100th year of the opening of our Veteran Assembly. It's a beautiful humility that 2021 has come across the centennial anniversary of many events that are very important to our history. The year 2021 was the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of 1921, the signing of the Treaty of Moscow, the giving of the Veteran title and the adoption of the Istiklal March. Witnessing these special anniversaryes led us to the MPs, who served in the 27th Legislature of our Parliament, to all of us, to have the right pride. May our coven and our state reach centuries of power and power and may it last forever. On this occasion, first and foremost, I remember the first president and founding leader of our Parliament, Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the deceased members of our First Assembly, all the heroes of our future struggle, and all the most sincere feelings that have come to Rahmetirahman. May their souls be at peace and their dwellings in heaven. Also, from the opening of our Parliament to this day, I remember all our MPs, politicians, statesmen, with gratitude and gratitude. For those who have passed away, I ask for mercy from Allah, and good health, and long life for those who live. Members of parliament, our esteemed parliamentary friends, oratories on the stand have brought a number of criticisms on the working order of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and on the right of budgetary control. If you'll allow me to allow these criticisms, especially those claims that the powers that almost all speakers have expressed were translated into birds at work, that the written question motions were not answered, that the control opportunity had been eliminated, that Mr. President Mr. Kılıçdaroglu was also stressed and that this was not answered by the new presidency by the government system. He said that this was a situation which was developed by the government system, but if I allow it, I'd like to share those figures with you once, for example, when we looked at it yesterday, Mr. President General Kılıçdaroglu said that this was not an issue that had been raised today; he said that this was a number of other number of questions, but that had been raised in a total number of questions. During the time of 6,495, 28,456 were answered after the deadline...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0358par0801	That's what the president meant, after the deadline.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0357par0802	...18,891 question motions have not yet been answered. Looking at all of these rates, it's now 64.63 percent. I want to share these rates from the 22nd term, which, as I said, came to 56,891. For example, the written question motion in the 22nd century was 23,360, 62.8% answered. In the 23rd term, 21,220, the response rate was 85 percent, but when you look at that period, you can see that 1,668 of them have been returned. In the 24th term, it was 60 per cent, 25 per cent -- a very short period -- and we see that it remained at 45.4 per cent during the 26th term. So at the point where these motions will be answered on time as Parliamentary President, it has been really carefully focused, and in the interest of the Vice President, it has been sent to our ministries by our Parliamentary President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0359par0803	What is the nature of the answers, Mr. President? Yes, there is no mission that the Constitution has given the Parliamentary Presidency to discuss the content or quality of the answers. And you, of course, would not wish the Council of Parliament, as lawmakers, to establish a verdict outside the Constitution. You're censoring our questions.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0360par0806	Yes, thank you. I'm actually going to say that we all have to uphold the law of the House. Now, that's where we're all supposed to be. There's been an issue here about vehicles and liaison offices assigned to our former Speakers of Congress, but you have to look at the whole state while you bring it up and criticize it. Do all former prime ministers in this country have these opportunities? Is it being provided to former presidents? Other than that, are these opportunities available to former Supreme Court presidents? Is it provided to your court, to your court? Doesn't that give the Chiefs of Staff, the Joint Chiefs, those who serve in critical places? Then what could be more natural than giving those rights to our Speakers and former Speakers of Parliament? And it's not something anyone does in their head. Look, it's decided on March 31, 2000 that the Court of Presidents will appoint a car and driver; I'm talking about March 31, 2000. Then, on 22 January 2014, there was a decision on the presidential court's allocation of a place they could use as a liaison office for former Speakers of Parliament, and under it were signed by lawmakers of all political parties who represented the Presidential Court. Again, the Court of Presidents has been granted personnel to the Speakers of Parliament up to 3 personnel. And when we compare it with parliaments abroad, we see it all together, from Germany to Spain, from Belgium to Portugal, in many countries, to the Speakers of Parliament. So there's also a report published by our Parliament's Research Centre in February 2016, which we'd be happy to deliver to the MPs who asked. Mr. AK PARTY Group Chairman Ismet Yilmaz Bey has been referred to. So after becoming Group President, one vehicle has already been assigned to Mr. President by the Parliament, and there has already been an arrangement regarding this in the past, and our Group Presidents, who are not represented in Parliament, are being assigned by Parliament, and Mr. Yilmaz, due to his previous duties, has no further allocation of vehicles.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0361par0809	The D.O.D.'s vehicle was returned?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0360par0810	Of course, there are some injuries in Congress that are actually caused by the staff regime in Turkey, and there are things you've said about our parliamentary staff, and there are things we've said about parliamentary advisors. I want to make it very brief, which is that in 2011, when the House's Agency Act was made, I was in it as Subcommittee. This has already been predicted that lawmakers will be given advisors, and they will not receive severance from above, because you don't know how long they will be working with lawmakers.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0362par0811	They're working in chains for ten years, they can't get severance pay, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0360par0812	There was a statement in the statement of Mr. Toğrul. The end of each year was the same as the end of their contract. No, it's been going on through the term of the legislature. If the MP is making a statement if he does not continue to work with the same staff, then his contract is cancelled, or there is no renewing a contract every year. I'm just sharing it with you as information, so we're paying our first advisor $10,945 today when an officer of the House's rank as chief is being paid $6,203. It's just a process to make up for the difference. An officer gets $5.802. Second counselor gets $9.565 today. One servant gets $5,063, while our additional assistants charge $8,252.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0363par0813	What are they getting, Mayor?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0360par0814	If you'll excuse me, I'll finish, and then we'll talk again. We, as the Presidential Court, have made every effort to improve the social rights of our employees in all matters that are within the power and scope of the Presidential Court and the presidency. As with all public institutions, we also have 4/A staffers, 4/B contracts, 4/D permanent staff, staff employment, but short, for example, all 820 workers' wages have been evened in order to compensate for the constant wage imbalance in workers. It was done during this period, and a 54.90 per cent increase to the salary of a low-paying worker has been provided, has been improved, has been given an increase.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0364par0817	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0360par0818	Mr. President, a moment, please. Again, there were lawmakers who couldn't benefit from lunch, there were regular workers, interns, we had police officers who worked for the Office of Protection -- you know -- and they were able to eat on equal terms. Dinner has been applied to the sentry staff. Costs of clothing have been doubled to $5,183 lira. So there are all these arrangements. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to separate a couple of issues into the Court, because the Court's budget is an institution that controls the Great National Assembly of Turkey, but I'm sad to say that our speakers, our MPs, are actually missing how successful and comprehensively comprehensively the inspection of the Court when you compare it with the dignitaries all over the world. First of all, Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018, released in 2003, followed by 6085... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just one more minute...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0365par0823	Let's give it another minute, since it's Congress. This is our budget.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0360par0824	After the Law of Court No. 6085 was passed in 2013, it was not just a statement of general fitness to parliament, a general assessment report, a fiscal statistics assessment report, and a general report of action, evaluation report only, but from September 2013, the audit reports of all other institutions became available to our Assembly, not a complete audit through draft reports and friends, but an audit process of INTOSAI standards. The draft report comes in, so the inspector's report comes in, first of all, into a report board. There's a need for defenses here, so it's written to institutions. This will be sent to his apartment after this arrives. Once the relevant department has submitted its report, it will be evaluated again at the Report Evaluation Board, and then as a result of their assessment, the Board of Control has re-created this report to the end, and in total...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0365par0826	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0360par0827	I'm so sorry, I'll finish right away. So when you look at it, 508 institutions have been audited for the year 2020 that came our way. With 194 of these and four others, 198 were referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Those related to the local administrations, 30 major cities, other cities, private administrations, all related to them have been sent to their own Parliaments to be audited. And in this framework, for us, I think we should treat our Court of Justice with greater respect for the right of the nation, for the right of the budget. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0366par0831	Thank you, wise guy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0367par0832	The devices aren't working, these devices are broken. You paid for it for nothing, the old ones were better.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0368par0833	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0366par0834	Please...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0368par0835	Mr. Speaker said that these vehicles were given to the Supreme Court, to the presidents of the Court, to the presidents of other institutions. Against all privileges, all privileges must be removed, that's a waste.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0369par0836	That's another approach.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0368par0837	If he has given to the Supreme Court, if he has been given to the Court, if he has been given to the Supreme Court, and if he has been given to the Supreme Court, let the former presidents also be removed.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit03spe0370par0838	Thank you, Mr. Mahmut. You said that on the stand, thank you. Yeah, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0370par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. The first word for the executive is for Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Mr. Fatih Geziz. Here you go, Mr.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0007	Mr. President of our Veteran Assembly and the esteemed MPs, I salute you all. We are gathered to negotiate the 2022 Central Management Budget Law and the 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. I'd like to thank all of our valued deputies for contributing during these negotiations. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, energy and mining is the key element in providing development, national security and prosperity. We continue our work by constantly increasing the pace, not just to meet today's needs, but to address the potential problems that will arise before our generation after us, not just to meet today's needs, as we consider energy and, of course, our mission to contribute to the country's prosperity in a efficient and environmental way. As the Ministry of Energy and Resources, we are aware of the responsibility on our shoulders and the mission that history has imposed on us at this time, and we are not avoiding any sacrifice to do what is necessary. In this direction, the two days are in loss, and we will continue to serve our country and our beloved nation with great love, working, developing, and producing more than the day before. We also take direction from global and technological developments in the sector to energy prices and planning for the future in many ways to the environment, taking our energy and mining policies as part of the National Energy and Mine Strategy and handling green development with a priority strategy, and building our work in terms of financial and political sustainability and participation principles. Mr. President, the demand for electricity is 3.2 per cent year-on-year in the world between 2002 and 19; the OECD countries, where we are a member, increase of 0.8 per cent; the increase in our country is 5.6 per cent year-on-year, while we expect the increase in electricity demand to be 8 per cent this year. As a result of the steps we took to meet the increasing demand for electricity without interruptions or interruptions, both the power and production of the board are at a very good level, thus removing the risk of supply safety in electricity from our agenda. As a result of positive discrimination towards domestic and renewable energy sources, a significant increase in the share of domestic and renewable energy sources has been achieved and has been established in historical records. The 24,718 megawatt board, which has been active since 2017 when national energy and mining policy were implemented, produces 74.2 per cent of the power and almost all of the power plants that have been activated in the past two years are renewable power plants. Thus, the country's renewable energy-based council has risen to the 12th place in the world and to the 5th place in Europe. The renewable energy board power we activated in just 2020 is greater than the total renewable power of 24 European countries. Today, our renewable power is 52.930 megawatts, which is 53 percent of our combined power. At the end of this year, we predict our combined power to exceed the 100,000 megawatt limit. The amount of electricity produced from only renewable energy in 2020, in order to make our point more clear, has exceeded the total production of electricity in 2002. In the last 20 years, we've grown about 3.7 times the energy from our own water, wind, sun, geothermal and bio-sources. Despite this year's serious decline in water level, about 275 billion kilowatts of electricity produced in the first ten months of 2021 was produced by local and renewable energy sources. With these serious increases in domestic and renewable energy, both supply security has been secured and the current has been contributed positively to the deficit. Just to be clear, when we domesticate the share of energy production each 1 percent, we prevent a total of $250 million in foreign currency from going abroad. In addition, with the total 4,000 megawatts of solar and wind YEKA projects to use renewable energy sources in a more efficient and efficient way, we will be able to create the 8,500 megawatt YEKA portfolio, along with the 3 YEKA projects, which will be announced in competitions, with a total capacity of 4,500 megawatts in the coming period. As part of the work on the development and modernisation of our electricity infrastructure, we planned to invest a 78 billion-dollar network in the next five years during the next five years of 2021, in the 15-year period between September 2021 and 2020, including 2021-2025. The sixth application period, covering 2021-2023, will again be an investment of $20 billion, according to TÜFE (September 2021). Meanwhile, some of our representatives have expressed their views and criticism of the privatisation of TEİAS. We've been on the agenda in the Plan and Budget Commission before, and we've told the press about our approach to this. The privatisation here is not going to be a block sale, it's going to be an IPO. So we're talking about privatisation of management and control rights to the bottom of the capital, which will remain entirely in the state.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0372par0015	It starts like that, it ends badly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0016	Also, our arrangement for the electric car charge station infrastructure has been adopted in our Parliament and will open the way for investments in this area, as such legislation has been implemented. We aim to prepare the charge infrastructure of the local electric car, TOGG, before it gets off the assembly line. Mr. President, considering our oil and gas imports are high, providing our hydrocarbon supply security depends on increasing the rate of domestic production in the energy basket, along with new resources and routes. In this context, we went to a paradigm change in oil and gas exploration. We're searching every inch of the blue country with our fleet of deep-sea drilling ships and seismic research ships that we've bought at a very low market price. Our seismic research ships have already been drilled 15 deep sea drillings with our drilling ships in their designated locations, and a probe is already under way in the Black Sea. As a result of these intensive searches, we have made the largest discovery of natural gas in our history in the Black Sea's Sakaryan basin of 540 billion cubic metres. We are also doing our work according to the schedule we planned for the use of our citizens in 2023. In this case, engineering has been completed in our gas field and we will make the first source by putting pipes on the Black Sea's base in the spring of 2022. We also plan to complete pre-production operations in all wells in 2022. In the first phase expected to be completed within 2023, 10 wells will be opened and 10 million cubic metres of natural gas per day will be transported to our delivery system, reaching about 40 production wells during phase two, and transferring 40 million cubic cubic metres of gas daily. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The discovery of natural gas in the Sakarya field was recorded as the largest discovery in the world in the sea in 2020. But we wish to not only sign new hydrocarbon discoveries on behalf of our nation. The discovery in the Black Sea has taken our existing search motivation to the highest level and has increased our efforts to uncover new reserves, as we've always said, if so, we will find them. In this direction, we aim to join our fleet in June of next year, with the 7th generation, the most state-of-the-art drilling ship in its class, one of the five drilling ships in the world, and for the first time, the 4th drilling ship we will use. We expect this new ship to begin drilling from mid-to-year next year. With the search fleet we've strengthened, we're counting the days for new news to give our nation in order to ensure our energy independence. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] To assess supply security in natural gas, we have delivered the total storage capacity of two underground natural gas and above-ground LNG facilities to 4.7 billion cubic metres. With the completion of our two underground gas tanks in 2023, our total national gas storage capacity will reach about 11 billion cubic metres; in other words, we will be able to store about 20 percent of our annual consumption. In addition, our total access capacity has been increased by natural gas infrastructure development to 362 million cubic metres, with its access capacity at a level of nearly 30 per cent of the 280 million cubic metres, the historic summit of the daily demand for national consumption. This ratio is an important indicator of how much we strengthen our natural gas infrastructure. There are significant risks in supplying natural gas, being dependent only on pipelines and several countries. For these risks to be eliminated, natural gas entry points must be diversified as both the gas type and the source country. Twenty years ago, there were only three entry points, including two pipelines. After 2002, as in all areas of energy, we provided significant gains for our country in this area. Today, we have increased the number of entry points, including the six pipelines, to 12. Thanks to our investments, the level of addiction to the only import source has been significantly reduced. In 2002, the dependency rate for the only country was 68 per cent in importing natural gas, while in 2020, it dropped to 33 per cent. In the form of the LNG, the gas was brought in by ships, and the infrastructure and entry points for injection into our national transport system were activated, allowing opportunities to be assessed in the spotlight markets. In this context, the Ertugrul Veterans, our first floating LNG storage and regasation vessel, which is owned by the public, was also taken into operation this year, as you know. The only purpose of all this effort, work and investment is to deliver natural gas to every citizen and industrialist at an uninterrupted, quality and reasonable price. As a result of this effort, natural gas was delivered to all of our 81 counties and 615 settlements in 2002 and nearly 80 percent of our country's population was able to reach natural gas. We also aim to deliver more natural gas to the 367 settlements during the investment period 2021-2026, where the Plan and Budget Commission gives the good news. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers are on the agenda where nuclear power plants will be shut down in some countries. As a matter of fact, we've heard from some orators today, but when we look at the current state of these plants around the world, 442 reactors are operating, and 51 new reactors are being built. The current energy crisis in Europe has changed its view of nuclear energy, and in France, which provides 71 per cent of electricity production with nuclear energy, it has also been announced that new nuclear power plants will be established to ensure energy independence, guarantee electricity supplies and reach zero carbon targets. As Turkey, the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, which has been trying to increase the diversity of our energy supply security and production portfolio since 1965, has been launched in 2018, while the first unit is scheduled to be activated by 2023, while the other units are scheduled to be activated by 2026 a year apart. And let our people be welcome to our Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant project because this plant is being built to withstand earthquakes, plane crashes, tsunamis, unusual storms, and can continue to operate even under these conditions. In addition, nuclear power plants play an important role in fighting climate change because they produce carbon-free energy. In this context, with our Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant Project, which will contribute substantially to our goal of reducing carbon emissions from energy production, it will import about 7 billion cubic metres of less natural gas annually, and it will also prevent the annual emissions of 35 million tons of carbon dioxide. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we plan to turn our country into an energy hub with advanced energy and market infrastructure, not just where energy prices are being transferred, but when market players are coming together in competitive free market conditions. On 1 June 2021, we took over the Future Electrical Market, which enabled the annual, quarterly and monthly supply of physical delivery electricity, as well as the Future Natural Gas Market on 1 October 2021, in order to boost tensions and flexibility in the markets in the development of energy sector and markets, to eliminate risks due to price uncertainty. In addition, the Renewable Energy Resource Guarantee System was activated on June 1st 2021, which provided documentation of energy from renewable sources. Thanks to this system, which we call YEK-G, our country will also have significant advantages on carbon border taxes, which can be brought up by the countries we export. Mr. President, we're doing everything we can to make sure that our citizens are at least affected by these rising energy prices on a global scale.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0373par0031	You gave me a 100 percent raise, tell me that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0032	For this purpose, with state support for energy prices, about 150 billion dollars has been prevented from coming out of our citizens' pockets.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0373par0034	Tell me how much you've given me, and you've given me a 100 percent raise.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0374par0035	Mr. Secretary, you've raised electricity 122% in three years.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0036	In natural gas bills, three-quarters -- 76 percent -- and in electric bills, close to 50 percent -- is covered by our government's treasury sources.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0375par0038	The increase from the wolf is your skill.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0374par0039	You've raised 122% in three years, Mr. Secretary, 122% in three years.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0040	In addition, by removing the TRT and energy funds from the electric bills, we'll be giving our citizens an additional $3 billion a year.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0376par0041	One lira, one lira.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0374par0042	One and a half liras.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0043	Again, as of next year, with the gradual tariff we intend to implement, our citizens will pay less and less for the electricity in their homes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0374par0044	Not less, normal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0045	This will also increase the amount of savings in the use of electricity in the dwellings.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0374par0046	It's another model of a raise, Mr. Secretary, and you're saying another model of a raise.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0047	However, electricity consumption support for our narrow-income citizens is provided by our government for up to 150 kilowatts per month.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0377par0048	You're even putting out the streetlights half an hour ago.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0049	In this case, 2.4 million households were provided with electricity consumption support this year, and about 6 billion dollars from March 1, 2019, when the implementation began. (AK PARTY) Our state is paying for the total consumption of electricity up to 150 kilowatts per hour. In 2021, 1 million 622,000 tonnes of coal were distributed for free to 1,08,219 families with narrow income as heating support. In the last 20 years, the price of coal delivered to our narrow-income citizens is $29.4 billion at today's prices. Based on the price of fuel... our country has become the only country in the European Union... that has not received taxes except VAT in the fuel system... when it is the 7th country that has received the least tax from fuel... even before the zeroing of OTV in the European Union.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0378par0052	What happened to the increase in the water supply? Oil prices...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0053	Tax rates in the EU countries range from 42 per cent to 60 per cent, while in our country only 15.2 per cent.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0379par0054	How much of the SITV is tax, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0371par0055	With these precautions being taken, we'll be able to give citizens in Europe...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0380par0056	What about the gas prices, Mr. Secretary? Does it contribute to gas prices?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0381par0057	Tell us how much Mazota has been raised in a year...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0382par0058	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0383par0060	We just ordered the fuel, said we were the cheapest. I'll tell you about electricity and gas. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows]] With these measures being taken, I would like to say that Turkey is the cheapest country in Europe that offers its citizens the cheapest natural gas in housing, and that we are the two cheapest countries in electricity.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0384par0064	You get paid for citizen Turkish lira, you compare it to dollars!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0385par0065	The citizen burns turds, Mr. Secretary, he can't even buy coal, he can't even buy coal.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0386par0066	One person comes in, one person comes in...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0385par0067	He's burning a turd, citizen.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0387par0068	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0388par0069	Congressmans, look, when you buy this oil and natural gas from international markets, you're Turkey. They don't give us a different price.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0389par0070	How much per person?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0390par0071	Not with minimum wage dollars!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0388par0072	Whether you buy from Africa or buy from the United States, you will pay the same price.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0391par0073	The minimum wage... why do you always talk about the same thing?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0390par0074	The minimum wage is not dollars!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0388par0075	Our government, our government, has brought this cost upon itself. And when you look at the rankings today, we can easily say that we are one of Europe's cheapest energy-using countries.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0390par0077	We're a minimum wage country with Turkish lira, but all the raises are in dollars.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0392par0078	The raises...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0388par0079	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are drawing road maps with national contribution statements under the Paris Agreement. I'd like to point out that the main point of the contribution statements is the reduction of the targeted greenhouse gas emissions, and that we will continue our policies more strongly, as well as the maximum benefit of energy efficiency in each sector, from renewable resources in the energy sector, from non-carbon-free nuclear energy. Just a moment ago, he said: "Mr. Minister, turn down the gas." He said. He knows it's a distortion. In the Plan Budget Commission, 47 of our MPs took the word and raised questions. You know, in the end, I'm entitled to an answer of about thirty to forty minutes. I've grouped them, and our deputies have asked us questions about 10 different things. The first question was why there was an increase in energy prices. And as I've just expressed here, I've put it there in numbers. I think, after three or four questions passed, I said, what is our ministry doing with the energy efficiency of another member of parliament? I said that in the next three years as part of the presidential austerity generality, there was a 15-percent savings goal, and that public institutions should do this in this sense in order to set an example for our citizens. (CHP and HDP rows of noise) However, I also stated that our citizens can use energy more efficiently with their attitude and behavior.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0393par0081	Here, it's the same thing. I'm going to twist the words behind their backs...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0388par0082	And I'll say it again: I said there's a 7 per cent savings opportunity at a one percent rate.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0393par0083	You're saying the same thing again.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0388par0084	Two days passed, and none of our deputies responded that day. Mr. Vice President in charge of CHP Energy and Infrastructure was there, and he didn't react because normally it was the flow of questions and answers. A day passed -- we did it on December 1 -- there was no reaction on December 2nd, not on social media, but on December 2nd, your spokesman made a headline, he said: "We asked the minister about the price of energy, so cut down the calories."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0394par0085	That's what they do, twist things around.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0388par0086	I told you that day, and I'm telling you today, tweezer politics is of no use to you or anyone else. No minister has ever said that energy is inefficient. Neither did the people before me, nor will I say that they will come after me, nor will they say that they will come after me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0394par0088	Twisting things.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0395par0089	The gas, the power cut, the citizen at the gate of the palace...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0394par0090	It's your job to twist, to twist, to listen to the truth, to the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0396par0091	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, one of the things that is clearly important during the epidemic is the industry's access to raw materials and supply security in this area. As you know, the mining industry provides the raw materials the industry needs for production. I'd like to say once again that the mining industry within the country is proportionate to the production force for the survival of the national industry during the epidemic and so on, when international supply chains are broken. The assessment of our subterranean wealth as well as our resources above ground is of great importance to our supply security. As it is known, our country is very rich in underground potential. It's our job to bring our mineral resources into our economy in an environmental and secure way in international standards. As a result of the work we've done, we've been able to study the ground and the ground from land, air, and sea to every detail. We've been able to do geological mapping from land, geochemistry, search, research and detail, remote detection with satellite images from the air, geophysical ethics with airplanes and radiometric methods, and marine geology and seismic research with our research ships at sea. In this scope, the total amount of drilling in 67 million meters in the years from 1935 to 2002, as a result of intensive work across the country to uncover our mineral resources, has been completed in 19 years from 2003 to today, at a total of 7.9 million metres.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0397par0094	Mr. Secretary, instead of bragging about drilling, if you employ unemployed geology engineers, you don't need all this drilling, you don't need all this drilling.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0396par0095	As a result of intensive search, many mineral reserves have been discovered by the MTA, and they have been brought into our economy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0397par0096	With the number of drills, you don't brag about it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0398par0097	You've built half the country into a minefield, a minefield.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0396par0098	It's tenacious...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0398par0099	You've built more than half the country's minefields.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0399par0100	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0396par0101	Listen, listen, we're telling you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0398par0102	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0399par0103	You don't understand, you don't understand!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0398par0104	You've built more than half a minefield.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0400par0105	Mr. Secretary, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0401par0106	In addition to these tenacious studies, the share of the mining within the gross domestic product was 0.8 per cent 20 years ago with $2.95 billion, while in 2020 it was 1.17 per cent at $60 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0398par0108	How much is Alamos Gold here?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0402par0109	Go ahead, Minister, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0401par0110	The state's rights increased to 52 times in 20 years to $2.35 billion in 2020.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0398par0112	Alamos Gold, Alamos Gold... how much of Alamos Gold is here? Alamos Gold... Canadian company...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0403par0113	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0404par0115	Thanks to this breakthrough in mining, we're going to have an export of about 700 million dollars in 2002...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0405par0116	The Kaz Mountains...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0404par0117	We expect it to reach $6 billion by the end of this year.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0405par0119	Alamos Gold, Alamos Gold... the Goose Mountains, the Goose Mountains... We're working specifically for the discovery of new fields for gold, one of our important import pens, to be produced. Who's producing, Canadian companies?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0406par0122	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0407par0123	Mr. Look, you're disrupting the Minister's motivation. In this context, the record gold production of 42 tonnes in 2020 contributed 2.5 billion dollars to our economy. Our main goal is to minimize this pen, which is a significant current by reaching the level of 100 tons of gold production per year. Compared to other sectors of mining, it seems to be a more risky business for business safety. That's why I'm asking you to keep a constant audit of the mining establishments...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0408par0127	Can I have two minutes?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0409par0128	Yeah, you've built more than half the country's minefields, minefields. You've built more than half the country's minefields.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0407par0129	Mr. Secretary, this is the last time I'm going to extend it. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0410par0131	...it is important that machines and equipment exceed the standard under the technological possibilities of the age. We continue our inspections indefinitely.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0411par0132	Mr. Secretary, welfare... Who gives you the coals? Whose company is that?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0410par0133	Finally, our ministry will continue its work in the field of energy and, of course, by providing as effective, economic and efficient use of public resources as possible, in line with policy and goals included in the development plan and other top policies documents. Our ministry has a total of 3.64 billion budgets in 2020, with $3.54 billion spent, and the remaining 98.6 million is cancelled at the end of the year. Depending on these precise account figures, the rate of budget implementation of 2020 is 97 percent. Our ministry's budget bid for 2022 is $5.33 billion, and the total budget offered along with MTA, Mapek, TENMAK, EPDK and NDK is 7.71 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0412par0137	Mr. Secretary, thank you. I'm just turning on your microphone for a salute, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0413par0139	Mr. Secretary, don't tell stories!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0412par0140	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0414par0141	You've led the rest of the country's forests to mining businesses!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0415par0142	When I end my words, I thank you for listening to me patiently...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0414par0143	We're not listening patiently! You've made the forests, the minefields, the pursuers!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0415par0144	...that the budget for the year 2022 should be a blessing for our nation, our state and our ministry, and I salute our House. Have plenty of energy and a bright future.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0416par0146	Let's go! National energy, national technology, go!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0417par0147	Osman, that's enough!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0418par0148	Mr. Bak...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0417par0149	Osman, enough with the slogans!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0419par0150	What?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0418par0151	You're disrupting the ministers' motivation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0419par0152	I'm motivated. Big brother, it's full of energy, it's full of energy! It's full of energy!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0418par0153	Please, please... Minister of Youth and Sports Mehmet Muharrem Közoğlu will speak. Here you go, Mr. Butcherson.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0420par0157	Mr. President, I give you the very valuable MPs for the budget of our Ministry of Youth and Sports. On this occasion, I salute all our esteemed deputies and our beloved nation under this great roof. Yes, I want to thank all of our deputies today, who have expressed their opinion under this great roof, who have contributed. I hope the 2022 budget talks will bring blessings for our Ministry of Youth and Sports, our country and our beloved nation. Yes, during the budget talks, my hand from Antalya was informed of an incident. I pray to God for the mercy of our young brother, who died in this hand of mine, and to his precious family, my condolences.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0421par0160	He was murdered, Mr. Secretary, murdered.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0422par0161	Do you feel responsible, Minister?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0420par0162	I talked to the governor of Antalya, and I found out that the scene of the incident was not a private business or a foundation or a foundation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0422par0163	We gave you his name!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0420par0164	It's about the close-up of the D.A.'s office, the surveillance of the police, and we're gonna follow it with precision. I wish our young man mercy once more.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0422par0165	Minister, what's the name of the dorm?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0423par0166	Go ahead, Minister, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0422par0167	Please, tell me the name of the dorm.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0424par0168	Do not exploit anything for your dirty politics. There's something sad going on here, so let's follow it up, let's light it up.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0422par0169	Dirty politics is the one that condemns those kids, that's dirty politics.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0425par0170	You've been responsible for 20 years.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0424par0171	Very valuable lawmakers, as you know, have been fighting pandemics for the entire world for two years. This process has affected many activities in youth and sports, as it has affected all life. At the point of ease of this process, we, the Ministry, have come up with new strategies, new plans. As in all areas as a country, we have successfully managed this process with proactive policies in youth and sports. We continued to fight development with sustainable and participating strategies, with all our work and investments. Participants is our most important compass as Ministry. In this frame, we have been very cooperative with all of our associates. Our focus is to hear young people, to listen to young people, to understand young people, and to walk this path with them. Our goal is to make both our young and our athletes today and tomorrow strong and equipped for them, to make it strong for the women and men of 84 million to have access to sports. We'll continue to work our way through this. Mr. President, the highly valued MPs have left the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and the Paralympic Games behind. In the process...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0426par0174	Mr. Anris told me in the morning that you had built a nation's garden in Tripoli.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0424par0175	Are you uncomfortable when you say "Olympics"? Be proud. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] First, I want to thank all of our Parliament for its support, its contribution, and its excitement, regardless of any distinction. You remember last year, I said 2021 would be the year of medals, and its purpose, by all means, was to give us happiness by writing their names in both the Olympics and the paralympic games, by making the first ones happen. (AK PARTY) I invite all Parliament to applaud these heroes, the precious stars of each other. Why don't you guys give it up, give it up?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0427par0179	Don't show off, Mr. Secretary, don't show off.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0424par0180	Give it up. (CHP and HDP rankings; AK PARTI rankings..............) This joy is all of us, this joy is all of us, this joy is all of us. Our glorious flag, the pride of all of us. Yes, dear MPs, we joined Tokyo with a very young and very dynamic team, and again, we joined Tokyo with the most female athlete in history, and we are proud of our women. (AK PARTI and MHP in rows; CHP and HDP in rows) Our women have made history. We said it was a women's-focused sport, and we're good at it, thank God. Her and her men, all our athletes, all of our paralympic athletes, have given us great pride, and I sincerely congratulate our athletes not only on this pride, but on the fact that the next generation is a role model for the precious, precious new generations.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0427par0183	Cheerleader, amigo! He's cheering people like cheerleading! You're a cheerleader!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0428par0184	Amigo, we're not your audience!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0424par0185	How many athletes and children of this country, the children of Anatolia, will continue to make us sing the Istliklal Anthem all over the world and wave our glorious moon star. We're proud of them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0427par0187	Not the minister, amigo!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0429par0188	He's showing off! Let's get on with the show!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0424par0189	Of course, these achievements are no coincidence, nothing is a coincidence.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0430par0190	It's a success, isn't it?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0424par0191	It's a compliment. Of course we'll be proud and support these processes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0431par0193	The national team has fallen, the cluster! During your time, the cluster fell!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0432par0194	Congressmans, please... Mr. Aydoğan, please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0431par0196	Mr. President, the national team has fallen, this has fallen during the Minister's time.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0433par0197	The president's putting on a show, he's not talking! He's showing off!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0198	When you look at how this process is coming, you see a sacrifice, you see a commitment, you see a broad vision. You know, as a ministry, it's not just performance-oriented, but it's an important priority for every living citizen, with his man and his woman, to have access to all the facilities, to strengthen the culture of sports. Dear friends, there's a revolution in sports, as in every field, there's an epic. Here's the turning point of this is the sport that Mr. President started when he was mayor of Istanbul.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0435par0202	Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0203	At the commission meeting, a member of parliament criticised our facilities, saying that he saw them as a pile of concrete, that so many facilities were unnecessary.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0436par0204	You betrayed Istanbul, you betrayed it!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0205	Look, we've got athletes all over the world today. Not just in a major, not in a few majors, but in a lot of majors, if we're writing epics, that's because of the strong infrastructure. (CHP rows) We have a perfect facility in all Turkey that defies the world in all things. These facilities are for 84 million, for all the children of this country. (CHP rows) They're not just investments in today, they're investments in tomorrows. It is a sign of our value to the people of this country, the women of this country, the young people of this country, the disabled individuals of this country. Each of the 84 million is precious to us, the crown of our heads, the crown of our heads. With football, basketball, volleyball, tennis courts, swimming pools, each facility is at the disposal of all citizens of this country 24/7. Our policy, our policy, our policy, is to be good for people, to be good for people. The two days in our politics are in loss, and the one who is equal is in loss.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0437par0206	You're good for Genghis, Genghise.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0207	We've taught more than 3 million people to swim despite the pandemic, and this project is going on rapidly. (CHP and HDP rows of noise) We will continue to fight hard in basketball, volleyball, other areas, in all areas. Our installation continues at full speed; last week we opened the most modern, European Olympic swimming pool in Gaziantep, and I wish it well. Last week we opened the Alsancak Mustafa Denizli Stadium in İzmir. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We didn't stop, we produced them, while the whole world was in the pandemic, and here we are opening them up one by one. So even these two facilities would have been spoken for months in Turkey twenty years ago, and they would have been built for years, but we, as the EC PARTY, under the leadership of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, will continue to produce, despite you, we will continue to build, we will continue to commit. We'll make it for our nation, for you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0437par0210	You've exhausted the country!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0211	Yes, our Olympic prep centers will, on the one hand, continue the development of our athletes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0437par0212	You've run out of young people's futures.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0213	We completely eliminated his dilemma with our national athletic scholarship. This project is going on fast. 2023 to our goals, 2053 to our goals, thank God, we continue at full speed, while our investments in our provinces continue at the fastest.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0438par0214	Bosporus students see you, Bosporus students!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0215	Here, Mr. Adilly, Congressman of the Army... unfortunately, we'll be wasting our time, but time is the most important asset. I've answered his incontrovertible statements at the Commission, but unfortunately, I'm going to have to take up your valuable time.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0439par0216	Whoa, whoa, whoa!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0217	Because the expression of the Sports Toto organization, its meaningless expressions, its clearly disconnected expressions, make it necessary for me to explain this process, to express it in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0440par0218	Don't demagoji, don't demagogue!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0219	Here are the facilities that we built in our country for nearly $10 billion, which you call the black box. And more than 200 million of them are in the province of the army; that which is in your knowledge is good luck, and good luck to the army. (EC PARTY and UMP rows) We will continue to support all sides of Turkey whether you want to or not, with our facilities, our youth centers, our homes, our camps, our projects. I refer such accusations, such slanders to the precious conscience of the beloved nation; our nation will answer the best of all things when the time comes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0441par0221	The streets are getting louder and louder.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0222	Yes, we work with young people for young people. We do all our policies with the presence of our young people, with their participation, by taking our young people into the center. We're with our youth centers, our young offices, our youth camps, 24 hours of social, cultural, educational, educational activities for 24 hours, and we set our activities on the basis of their participation by asking our young people.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0442par0223	Bosporus, Bosporus...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0224	Language studies, personal development, technology studies, pre-test training, experimental workshops are a few of them. Hopefully, we'll continue to add riveting to our successes in this process as soon as possible. Look, the number of youth centers is increasing day by day. Well, it's just today we've got five youth centers in our inventory. Ağrı Eleşkirt Youth Centre, Siirt Eruh Youth Centre, Ankara Mamak Youth Centre, Uçak Sivaslı Youth Centre, Tunceli Ovacık Youth Centre; We have 393 youth centers, praise be to God, good luck. We declared 2019 the Year of Volunteering. We have a bright generation of young people, each with a rich heart, a large, large, willing youth.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0442par0226	You arrested the Bosporus.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0443par0227	70 percent want to escape, what will you do with it?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0228	Those young people have given our volunteer work a huge boost. We're making our volunteer work more institutional, both with infrastructure and academic support, with other institutions, with other businesses. And I would like to express a thank you, a thank you from here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0444par0230	Thank the President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0231	I send my greetings to all of our young men who are dedicated to the earthquakes, fires, and floods of our country this year, to all of our young men, whose hearts are wide and their hearts are rich, and I kiss them by their foreheads. Thank you, thank you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0445par0233	The Bosphorus boys are always protesting against you, protest!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0234	Yeah, the Limitless Makers Program... we're taking on original projects from each other. We started a training process in areas such as systems engineering, renewable energy, space technologies, nanotechnology, artificial intelligence, neuroscience and genetics. We've been working with TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) on the domestication of imported sporting goods, increasing the number of our local sporting goods. We've got a techno-intervention session with TÜBITAK. With the BigG SPOR Awards, we encourage sports initiatives, strengthen sports technologies, and communicate hard with our shareholders. And again, as part of sports research, we made an important call -- we included in the schools of sports science, their valuable academics. Look, there's participation in our policy, there's synergy due to participation, and the result is that there's abundant products, there's successes, there's consequences. It's a picture of pride, a painting that's been passed down in history, and we, hopefully, will be able to move this painting up with a hand-share that will make it even stronger.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0446par0236	Today is history, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0237	We have proactive policies, and our policies are based on science. Our Life Skills Program is also one of which is that we're going to reach more than 500,000 young people within this program, and I also want to give you the special news about the employment of young people -- with our Ministry of Industry and Technology -- in 2022, we're meeting with the Youth Program, and we're meeting 60,000 young people in 2022, and I'm hoping that it's a good program in all our provinces.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0447par0239	Employment, employment...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0240	With the Precious Time Education Programme, we offer free education in a sport and an art course to any young person who asks for it in various districts and provinces of Anatolia. We provide our young people with all the material they need from musical instruments to sports supplies. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0448par0242	Sports clubs want sporting goods, amateur sports clubs.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0243	Of course amateur sports, they're all our eyeballs, we raised them together, we'll strengthen them together.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0448par0244	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0245	Mr. Nüğde MP, look, I came to Niğde, we talked about sports investments in Niğde. I'm afraid I didn't see you there.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0448par0247	You're asking us.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0248	We just heard from a 25-year-old HDP MP.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0448par0249	Mr. Secretary, the disabled...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0250	He was 22 years old when he was elected MP.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0448par0251	Help out the amateur sports clubs.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0252	He was elected MP at the age of 22, Mr. Dersim Mountain.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0449par0253	Thanks to who?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0434par0254	Thanks to who? Thanks to Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0450par0256	Thanks to your Ataturk, your Ataturk!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0451par0257	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0452par0258	Thanks to the people!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0453par0259	The Constitution...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0454par0260	Now he's accusing us of ignoring people's will. Look at that, look at that, ignoring people's will?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0452par0261	You're the one who ignores it, you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0454par0262	To give young 18-year-olds the right to choose and be elected is to make the nation's will the crown of the nation, to make young people the apple of the eye, to cherish young people. (AK PARTY) I advise you to look for the value we give young people at the age of the eyes of the mothers of Diyarbakir...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0455par0263	Recep Erdogan...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0456par0264	Young people are unemployed!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0454par0265	I suggest you search the mountains in the future of the children you kidnapped.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0457par0266	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0458par0267	Put your finger down!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0454par0268	Yes, dear MPs, we're going to talk about dorms now.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0459par0270	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0460par0271	Legislative activity...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0461par0272	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0462par0273	Look, I'm not talking about the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0463par0274	Don't point like that!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0462par0275	I will not speak of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. Nurettin Bey told me about them yesterday, and I'm not going to talk about it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0464par0276	Mr. Secretary, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0462par0277	Look, we'll talk about dorms, dorms. We're going to talk about the dorms you're trying to sacrifice for sensory operations. So here's the pride table, the biggest pride of the 19 years of the AK PARTY, the dorms we built in spite of you, the dorms we raised from 190,000 capacity to 750K, and the number of countries we're increasing every day.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0465par0279	What happened today, what happened today?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0466par0280	Ensar built them all, Ensar!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0462par0281	Look at the developed countries, praise be to God, when we gather all of them from Spain, Germany, France, publicly and privately, our pride painting is stronger than all of them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0466par0283	The congregation built them all, the congregation!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0467par0284	And the children died in the house of Ishmael, and in the house of Aladağ. Have you forgotten, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0468par0285	The students are on the street, on the street!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0286	Just don't talk. We've added 216 thousand capacities in the last three years alone, despite the pandemic, and we're still adding. Each of our young men has a place above our heads, we don't victimize any of them, we don't sacrifice you, we don't let any of them shed tears.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0468par0288	You sacrifice young people to cults, cults!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0289	Look, I'll show you a dorm.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0468par0290	You're sacrificing teenagers to cults!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0291	This is Muğla; 4,048 dorms, 8 blocks, 2 social facilities, 24 disabled rooms, 16 student study rooms, tennis courts, carpet fields.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0470par0292	Tell me about the boys on the street!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0471par0293	You're all parishioners, parishioners!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0294	And We completed it with a short term, and We made it subservient. Now, I'm going to show you something else. You see this? Do you see this?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0472par0296	They have eyes, they can't see, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0473par0297	Show me the houses of Ensar. Show me the houses of Ensar.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0298	This is the advanced decontamination system we set up in two years because they didn't build the sewers and water infrastructure that we're asking the City of Mughla. We built the infrastructure and we built the top. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Please welcome our young ones.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0474par0300	You leave one building and you build another!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0301	We will find a solution to the question of the country in one year. He says, he calculates the housing issue of 8.5 million students, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. I've brought a calculator for the account, and I'll introduce it to you in a moment.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0475par0302	You're an instrumenter, Ensarci!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0303	So, here's our menus, our dining halls, they're special.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0476par0304	You're an investor, Ensarker!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0305	There's Malatya Ilhan Raider House.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0477par0307	Your dorms are selling juices for $8 outside!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0308	İstanbul Ataturk House... (Applause from the AKP PARTY) Our tennis courts in Şırnak... have the voice of tennis rackets in Şırnak; young people have the cry of joy, teachers, families have the joy. Give it up, give it up.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0478par0310	The Minister who applauds himself, let him love you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0311	They're doing dorm accounts for 8.5 million students.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0479par0312	Shame, shame, shame! You're giving an assigned command, you're clapping; shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0313	The wrong account returns from Baghdad, and I have brought the calculators. Here are 624,000 students applying this year. Do your math, do your book well.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0479par0314	Woe to you! He's giving you an assigned command. Shame on you. Know you're a fucking congressman!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0480par0315	That's a shame, that's a shame.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0316	Eskişehir is our homeland; we opened it this year. The house of Jonah Emre, the house of Jonah. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Come, whatever you may be, come again. Yes, look, Aydında... again, Aydın is here, Aydın. This is a table of joy, a table of pride; be proud.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0481par0319	Show me your insides! You don't have a picture of the inside?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0482par0320	Stop lying, stop screwing around!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0321	Here, good luck to you, Turtle Earl House. Look, there's another painting here, here's an off-line opposition table, the number you're looking for can't be reached, the outside opposition has been out of reach for 19 years. There's a painting of opposition who opposes, denies, defamation, defamation. There's a painting here that we wanted to build for ODTU two years ago.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0483par0323	Community home, community! He founded that land in the congregation, the congregation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0469par0324	But we've made many homes in recent years, thanks to Ankara and Istanbul and our beautiful Izmir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0484par0325	Mr. Secretary, in Bartin, 80 million dorms were made, you bought them for 160 million, whose pocket did you give 80 million dollars to? Look, you're talking, I'm talking, and now I've brought you a calculator, Mr. Bankoglu. All the students have settled in Bartin. May our students be blessed. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from CHP and HDP rows]] Right, right.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0485par0330	Is that the whole $5 market? Is that the 5 lira market?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0484par0331	Mr. Secretary, 80 million dorms were made, and the state bought them for 160 million. Is that right or wrong? What happened to 80 million?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0486par0332	Congressman, Mr. Secretary... Yes, see, we don't insult, we don't slander, we don't lie, but we don't tolerate any slander, no perception operation, and any slander you've made against our President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0487par0335	Who are you? We're gonna show you guys some leniency!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0488par0336	Where's the lemon squeezer, the lemon squeezer? I advise you to stay online, this off-line, let alone the idea of an off-line opposition, be online, and then share the same frequency with our nation as our young people. You'll be on the same frequency with young people, with people, or you won't understand our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0489par0338	You live in another country, Mr. Secretary, you speak of another country! You're telling a story, a story!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0490par0339	Those who can't find a dorm are looking for us, they're not looking for you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0491par0340	And freedom of thought, freedoms... and praise be to God, we've opened the way for them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0489par0341	You go, make a dorm in Manhattan, go!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0491par0342	There was discrimination in your day. You can't come in with your head closed. You pass, you don't pass, you stay. They say.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0492par0343	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0493par0344	Yeah, lie or lie?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0491par0345	It is We who separate you, and it is We who unite you, and it is We who are the disbelievers, and it is you who are the losers.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0494par0347	Everything's 1 million, everything's 1 million markets! The minister's doing a million!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0495par0348	You're here to loot, loot, looters!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0491par0349	But our call is: "Come give up, give up this off-line mentality, come online, come online, let's build it together; we have nothing to worry about."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0495par0351	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0491par0352	What Batman is to us is Izmir, whatever he is to Diyarbakır, whatever he is to Diyarbakır, whatever he is to Van, whatever he is to Istanbul, he is Hakkari; our work is to Turkey, our only love is Turkey, our only love.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0496par0354	You're the only one who loves money!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0495par0355	You looted the country, you looted it! There was no understanding of power and government that carried out the social law state as strongly as the AK PARTI authorities. With their homes, with their scholarships, with their universities... look, a scholarship infrastructure as powerful as Turkey doesn't exist in any country in the world.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0497par0357	He's got to make a living for a month with $650, a month. A loan infrastructure as powerful as Turkey doesn't exist in any country and we removed university fees. You're talking about tuition, and you don't know that? Can you live on $650 a month?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0498par0360	We took away his college tuition. You don't even know about that! We started scholarships in Istanbul, our president started them, and he took the scholarships to the Constitutional Court, and you don't know that? I know that. But when he came to power, he built the world's most powerful scholarship infrastructure, thank God.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0497par0361	Bravo! As of now, we're paying $650, and we're going to raise it, and we're going to sacrifice everything for our young people. On what budget? We are here for our young people, not for them, but for putting our body under the stone.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0499par0366	With $50?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0497par0367	What about the interest on loans, interest on loans?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0500par0369	Congressmans, you don't always understand the questions you ask when you say it out loud.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0501par0370	I was going to show you pictures of the dorm we opened last week, but I'm inviting you to that dorm.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0502par0371	Everything's a million, everything's a million...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0501par0372	In Ankara, we have established a home of 4,000 in Mamak. We have given it to the girls. I'd like to invite each and every one of you over for coffee. Come, see, see how wrong your senses are. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, valued MPs, Turkey's resources and resources are available to serve Turkey. Our ideal, our horizon, our dream is just for this saintly country, for Turkey's happiness, for Turkey's happiness, for our nation. Our only goal, our only desire, is to build our young people's future with a sense of security and trust. We, by the will of this great Parliament, use every penny, every cent of the budget that our nation has given us, for this nation.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0503par0375	Mr. Secretary, do you have any idea...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0501par0376	Of course, we all have spiritual responsibilities as well as material resources. With this sense of responsibility, we are trying to strengthen our democratic rule of law, and protect our nation's holy law. Of course, we can't measure the social benefits we produce with statistics alone.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0504par0377	You're number one in the poverty index, you're in the top row.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0501par0378	Wherever you go in Turkey, there's no country in Turkey... thank God, it's a proud painting. I thank our esteemed President, our cabinet, you, our esteemed Parliament, and my fellow workers in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, close to 65,000 from each other. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We don't discriminate, we don't discriminate, we don't discriminate, we don't do regionals, we don't do community service, we don't do segregation, we don't do partisanism, we don't do partisanism.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0505par0380	You're a congregationer, too, you're a parishioner! You're a parishioner! ▪
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0501par0381	We didn't say, we won't say, we won't say, we won't say, we won't say, let it be small, we won't say, let it be small, we won't say, we won't say, we won't say, we won't
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0506par0382	You made a backyard of AK PARTY, tell me about it! You built the AK PARTY's backyard!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0501par0383	And we will not hold back from removing every obstacle that exists in front of the young people of Turkey, as we have since, and from now on, every obstacle that stands in the way of our young people, and we will not stop. [[Noises from HDP rows]] And we, the hope, are in the pursuit of raising joy, we are in the effort; come, join in this endeavor. We're about to share our bread and vaccine. We're thankful that we can make millions of young people smile every day.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0507par0386	That's what you think.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0501par0387	We provide housing for hundreds of thousands of young people in this country.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0508par0388	70% of young people are unhappy. We've been worried about young people's comforters, their pillows, their sheets, their food, their warm-up; it's our business. [[Noises from CHP and HDP rows]] You are the opposition, of course you will be the opposition, but, look, opposition is not opposition to the truth. An idea is opposed by an offer, not by mud, slander, and hatred. It can't be a form of opposition when I throw mud at Mr. President in the mornings and evenings, thinking to him, "How can I insult his staff?" You can't survive in such a state of mind. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Our president, by the will of the nation, has come to power many times with the good grace of the nation, has come to power, and despite all the imperial powers, defends the law of this great nation like lions, like lions. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Being politically opposed to this leader who has not brought Turkey's head forward should not blind anyone. Again, opposition is not opposition to Turkey; opposition, of course, is a legitimate, respectable, democratic right to participate. Come, give a round of applause for the unique works in Turkey, which are being used by millions, which are taking advantage of them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0509par0396	When are you coming to Ensar? And thou didst not speak of Ensar, neither didst thou speak of Aladağ, neither didst thou speak of the children who burned their homes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0510par0397	Minister, TUGVA, TUGVA.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0509par0398	Tell us about Aladağ, Aladağ.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0511par0399	Of course, the criticism agency works, and of course, you don't have to applaud, but let's just say good for good, bad for bad.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0512par0401	Mr. Secretary, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0511par0402	For the first time, mothers and fathers have left their children in peace.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0513par0403	Tell them of the dwellings of the Solomonites, and of the dwellings of the Solomonites.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0514par0404	Minister, TUGVA, TUGVA.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0511par0405	That means we deserve the credit.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0513par0406	Tell me how you make poor children needy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0511par0407	Besides, in these facilities, in these dorms, thousands of our workers work hard nightly, day by day. This country and this community, with public administration, civil society, homes, scholarships, universities, they take care of all their children. Please, come, let's grow this beautiful painting together, let's not darken this beautiful painting.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0513par0408	What beauty? The beauty in Ensar? Our young people are the hope of all of us, the hope of all of us, the future. So we said that young people's budgets are in youth. We called our budgets in the name of our budget, and we're going to decide again what to spend on the substructures of our activities in 2022, what to do with the weighty projects.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0515par0411	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm opening it to greet you, so let's finish. Here you go. And we're going to bring up the proposals and projects that we've been getting from them all year.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0516par0415	TUGVA, TUGVA. We will increase their effectiveness in decision-making by putting our young people's participation first in the process.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0517par0418	They're looking for the future abroad, boys.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0518par0419	We have no purpose, no purpose but to strengthen our young ones, to prepare them for a strong future. The year 2022, as always, will be the year when our digitalization moves continue, and our projects and supports increase, and sporting achievements grow, and we can begin to build and meet our nation as quickly as possible. Our foreseen budget is 27 billion, 782 million, 948 thousand liras. Our budget is in the hands of our young people, so let no one doubt that we will use it in the most efficient, most righteous way. I hereby ask that our budget be good for our country, for our nation, for our young people and for our athletes, and I salute the esteemed members of our Veteran Assembly. Thank you, thank you. (AK PARTY and MHP rows applaud.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0519par0423	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0520par0424	Mr. Erhan, Mr. Master asked for a word first, one by one.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0521par0425	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering? Why doesn't the Minister collect his papers, his paintings! Is that the Kavas' job? WHY doesn't he collect his own groups?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0520par0427	Congressmans, Mr. Tanal, this is the Deputy Director of the Group. Please, I beg you... Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0522par0429	Thank you. Now, Mr. President, I'd like to bring up a matter concerning the Department of Energy and the EPDK. We've already delivered this to the Minister and the EPDK president during negotiations with the Plan Budget Commission, but we haven't received any assessment of it. I'd like to bring it up again before they go into question and answer the matter, and I'd like to bring the attention of the MPs. Of course, you know, electricity distribution companies were privatized during the AK PARTY administrations. If I remember correctly, there are 21 distribution companies, and the important part is that they've already gone to three or five known companies. Now, I'm not going to go into any trouble with the missing fugitive, but there are two major problems here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0523par0434	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0522par0435	For the investment price, these companies, distribution companies, bills are being charged with a price, the bills paid by the citizen. For what? It's an investment. But now that we're looking at it, what progress is there in the blackouts? We're seeing more power outages, so what we're giving, what the state's allocations, what the citizens pay, is increasing, but the cuts are increasing parallel to it; it normally needs to be reduced, that's the first issue. There's probably no investment here, and these aren't well controlled, no assessment has been made, and we're expecting an answer from the Minister. There's something more important, Mr. President. Now, there's a service fee that's again being billed in exchange for services to distribution companies. These numbers are huge, these are determined by five years of plans, five years old, coming out of the EPDK. For example, between 2016 and 20, these are about $7 billion annually. So $7 billion, each of us is paid for by the money collected from our bill and by the distribution companies. What's it paid for?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0523par0438	Let's complete it, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0522par0439	Okay, I'm gonna need a few minutes. These are the number of subscribers, the number of transformers...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0523par0441	Mr. Master, I'll give you one last minute, your third minute...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0522par0442	I didn't get to talk about the first minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0523par0443	There's no such thing, look, we're giving this to the entire group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0524par0444	You have to learn to say a lot with less words, Master.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0523par0445	It's a subject to talk about on the stand, so it's not really something to talk about in three minutes, I know it well. If you'll briefly sum it up for him, one last minute.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0525par0446	Mr. President, well, thank you, that won't be necessary.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0523par0447	Okay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0448	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0523par0449	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0450	Mr. President, I have three supplies, sir. My first supply: Today, I demand a very short word from 60 people about the murder that made Turkey's hair stand up in Antalya, freezing all of our blood. My second supply, Mr. Secretary... I'll try to be polite, we've seen his performance today, and we've learned over and over again how precious kindness is.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0527par0455	He's still talking about kindness!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0456	The Minister's insult to both our MP's position and the insult to his office -- which they'll settle at the courthouse about -- then he picked on the stand to say that our Army Congressman had made an inadvertent speech. That's why I'd like to speak to our MP. My third supply...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0528par0459	If you talk about people's families, it's something that doesn't go away.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0529par0460	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0461	In addition, Mr. Secretary has made a mockery of us by using the phrase, "Despite you..." by creating the perception that we are against the services of Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0530par0462	You have your own statement on this, Mr. Altay. Even if you do the right thing, we can't applaud you. You said.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0463	And on behalf of the group, I'd like to make a statement about bullying. If you'll excuse me for the 60...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0531par0464	Mr. Altay, I'll give you your position, according to 60, as well as 69. Go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0465	Sure.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0531par0466	It's only three minutes. It's 60 and 69, that's all. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0468	Mehmet Sami Tuğrul, who worked in the dorm today, according to the Minister of Antalya -- which we have to believe is the state -- was brutally murdered by the cook who worked in a dorm on the building's third and fourth floor, working in the kitchen.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0531par0470	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0471	It's a university, and while it's happening, I'll leave it to the saintly nation to see Mr. Minister show us some pictures of his dorms here as a shopper. (CHP turns) Yeah, it's sad. If that child had been living in a government dorm, he wouldn't have been beheaded today, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0532par0472	Shame on you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0473	And this is the Minister, this rude Minister, show you a photograph and give it to him. If he can say so, it's also disrespectful to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We can't possibly accept that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0532par0475	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0476	Here's to teasing. If there were tens of thousands of students on the streets who couldn't find a home, to present it as a painting of pride, it would be the Ottoman Empire.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0533par0478	Let's complete it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0479	A pheasant becomes an Ottoman. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Yeah, you're gonna be a little embarrassed, you're gonna know a little bit about the street. If Recep Erdogan needs your preview, it's too bad, too bad.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0534par0482	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0526par0483	From here, you can all see the state of Erdogan's condition. You'll come out, you'll say, honestly, that I, as a government, can accommodate one of the five students, and that's the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0535par0484	All those demanding have settled in.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0536par0485	Don't you have people in your own city, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0535par0486	All those demanding housing settled in the dorm.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0537par0487	And our MP said in his speech: "You transferred money from Sports Toto. " He says he didn't transfer it, First give the account to Erdogan, because Erdogan said to him: "What did you want and not give it to him?"
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0538par0490	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0537par0491	Did he ask for something from everyone but not from Toto? Did he not ask Toto for sports? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, I'd like to conclude that the one who loses the reputation loses the courtesy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0539par0494	You left kindness on the stand last night, courtesy on the stand last night.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0537par0495	He loses the courtesy...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0539par0497	We can't learn kindness from you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0537par0498	The Minister of Energy just spoke here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0539par0499	You can't talk about kindness!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0540par0500	Guys, please...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0537par0501	There's a Minister in this cabinet called Mehmet Mush. His reputation is good, his kindness is good; he knows respect for parliament, and he knows the party hierarchy...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0540par0502	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0537par0503	But we've just been listening to a poor man here.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0541par0504	How dare you talk, how rude you are, how rude you are.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0542par0505	You're rude!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0537par0506	You have no manners, you rascal!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0541par0508	You're being rude. You're the real deal!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0543par0509	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0544par0510	Mr. President, you have to warn him, he's speaking immorally, warning him, Mr. President, he's saying immoral things.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0543par0511	Dear Elitaş... Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0544par0513	What does he say when he talks about kindness?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0545par0514	We're returning it all.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0546par0515	Mr. President... Calm down!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0547par0517	You calm down, too!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0546par0518	Look, you're having a hysterical breakdown right now. Calm down!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0547par0519	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't come here to listen to a salesman, I didn't come here to listen to a salesman.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0548par0521	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0549par0523	Mr. Ünal, Mr. Altay, please don't talk to me. Mr. Ünal, I'll give you the order, please excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0550par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0549par0526	I'll give it to Mr. Akçay, and then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0551par0527	There's a line, there's a line.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0550par0528	Mr. President, look, we're both facing our group and facing our own...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0551par0529	What did I tell you? What did I say?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0550par0530	We're in the middle of something that's out of line, and when we're talking about kindness, we're in the middle of something that's the ugliest form of rudeness.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0551par0532	You're the ugly one, I didn't do the ugly one.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0550par0533	You did it!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0551par0534	Do you approve of that scene?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0550par0535	Look, Mr. President, if we're going to talk about kindness...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0551par0536	Have you fallen so low as to applaud on the command of an assigned? Speech!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0550par0537	...if you're here...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0552par0538	Mr. Ünal, allow us to turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0551par0539	Here's the line, Mayor.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0552par0540	It's hard to understand. Yes, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0553par0542	Mr. President, this Civil Code is a Civil Code that protects the rights and laws of each and every one of us here, and every one of the ministers here, and every member of the General Assembly. But today, unfortunately, the Civil Code has not been paid attention to 65, 66, or 67, despite our warnings. From this platform, the expression "haramzade" was used. Look at the TDK of Haramzadeh.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0554par0543	Look at the other dictionaries, he reported it, he said, feeding on Haram.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0553par0544	If they're embarrassed, then they have shame.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0554par0545	It is he who feeds on it, and he who is rich with it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0553par0546	A ashamed mind doesn't use that. The shamelessness of those who call us shameless is the shamelessness of the general moral conduct of a president on this stand, so that they can learn what it is to be ashamed. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't let them teach us kindness. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0555par0551	Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0556par0552	Thank you, Mr. President. The Soma Darkale mine was run between 2003 and 2014 by Menisa Soma. However, this company did not pay seniority and tip compensation for 971 miners from the Darkale mine. As the National Movement Party, we have given all the support and effort to resolve the problems of the Mining victims. And our friends from the other party, our deputies, they did the same thing. A lot of work has been done, particularly the Ministry of Energy, and these efforts have finally reached the conclusion of the resolution of seniority and reporting compensation for victims of Mining.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0555par0555	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0556par0556	Turkey's Coal Company began paying the victims of Mining on November 16, 2021. As of today, our 943 miners have been paid $18,500,000. Since he didn't sign a notice to nine miners, he didn't pay 19 miners for objecting to the amount; one of the objections was justified, and we've learned that other objections have been reviewed. We would like to thank Mr. Fatih, our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, who has led the Soma Warning Mining victims to be compensated for their severance pay. We also congratulate you on the fact that, outside of this thank-you and even in its awesomeness, as a statesman, the Minister has received the ability to solve problems and, with his qualifications, the blessings of the victims and the underdogs; thank you and congratulations.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0555par0560	Let's finish, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0556par0561	Mr. President, we are thanking the Youth and Sports Minister and Sports Minister and Sports Minister and Minister of Sports and Sports who co-integrated the Social Square Project in 81 provinces in order to reduce social media dependency, bring them together with society and socialize them with national spiritual values, to contribute to their active involvement in sports, to support their stars, and to the development of future athletes, to the bottom of the sport, to the extent and to the extent that each person has access to sports, to tomorrow's champions, to the extent of sports, to support their stars. We wish you the best of your budgets. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0555par0564	Dear Oluç...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0557par0565	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I wish you'd learned not to talk about things you don't know. Now, look, I'm going to say the first one: you said: "It was chosen because of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. You don't know, why don't you know? The year 2011 was set up in parliament to build the Constitution, and our Group Vice President, Meral Danış Beştaş, works on that commission. His Witnesses are Mehmet Ali Şahin, who works with you at the High Consultory Council, and are now our Parliament Speaker Mustafa Sentop. Now, we asked for the right to be elected at 18, and the Justice and Development Party rejected it, then refused it. Then we brought in proposals for the law, and he refused.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0558par0568	We need a constitutional amendment, not with a proposal of the law.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0559par0569	What did you give the amendment?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0560par0570	Here you go, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0561par0571	The fact that Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Justice and Development Party have come late to propose that the People's Democratic Party be granted the right to be elected to 18-year-olds is, of course, a significant issue, but we told you, you came after us, not because of you, it's not because of you, it's one. [[Applause from HDP rows]] The second was chosen by the people's votes, by the people's will, not by Recep Tayyip Erdogan's will. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, I'll tell you something else, Mr. Secretary, you haven't learned anything yet, you speak for young people, but you haven't had the slightest bit of democratic political culture. How dare you speak to the opposition? The opposition that slanders, the opposition that casts mud, something like that. What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0562par0577	Mr. Oluç, this is the last time I'll open it. Complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0561par0578	I'm picking it up, sir. Is that how you set an example for young people? So you don't know politics, you're a beginner in politics, of course you do your internship as Minister, it's important, but it's because you don't have a shred of democratic political culture to speak to the opposition in such a way that you really do exceed the limits of discipline. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Yes, you have performed the greatest performance since the role of Ziya, the salesman of Sener Sen. I swear to God, bravo! [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] Now, look, Mr. President, the last thing I'm going to say is we're going to ask the bench for the right to answer without taunting because of the name of Mountain. My last sentence, Mr. President, was that the Deputy Speaker gave us four plus one yesterday, so you cut us off a minute today. Is that okay?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0563par0583	Thank you, Mr. Oluç.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0561par0584	Come on, it was four plus one.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0563par0585	I had all my friends use three minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0561par0586	But don't do it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0563par0587	Look, there's no such thing here, we're doing it for today, and tomorrow, they can't be given, because there's no such thing. But believe me, I'll tell you something about Derim Mountain, Mr. Minister Tusim said about Mt.: thanks to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan... you have explained it. You've answered my lecture on the mountain. Thank you. Now, yes, you...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0590	Mr. President, I didn't answer about my class, Mountain.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0565par0591	He didn't.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0592	I've shed light on a wrong, unknown matter.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0566par0593	You fixed it, yes. There's no teasing my class, Mountain.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0595	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0566par0596	No, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0597	Is it because of Recep Tayyip Erdogan that he was chosen?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0566par0598	I'm the one who appreciates it. Dear Oluç, there's no teasing, I'm the credit.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0599	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0567par0600	No, no, nothing like that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0566par0601	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0602	So you guys are interrupting us all the time today.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0566par0603	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0604	No, why are you thanking me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0568par0605	Mr. President, we don't accept this.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0606	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0568par0607	My lesson is Mountain is ready and waiting.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0608	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0569par0609	What kind of style?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0564par0610	I mean, all the time, look, you keep interrupting us, you keep doing the same thing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0569par0611	Congressman friend, this is the Deputy Director of the Group. I need you to shut up so I can understand him. If you don't shut up, I won't promise the Deputy Director of the Group, and I won't give it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0570par0612	Oh, yeah? You're out there doing whatever you want.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0569par0613	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0571par0614	Mr. President, look, what I said yesterday, you're underestimating what I said yesterday. Even the Speaker gave us four plus one here yesterday. What makes you three today? Look...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0569par0615	Mr. Oluç, the Speaker can give you ten minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0571par0616	If you'll just let me finish one word.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0569par0617	That doesn't mean I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0571par0618	Let me finish.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0569par0619	I interrupted Master Erhan today, limited him by three minutes, said three minutes, and all my friends followed three minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0571par0620	But let me finish one thing.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0569par0621	All my friends fit in three minutes. Look, all the friends are in sync. There's more people who want to talk about teasing. If I knew and understood that there was a taunt about Dersim Mountain, other than your answer, believe me, I'd give it to Mountain before you do.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0572par0622	Give it to me, what are you waiting for?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0571par0623	He was chosen because of Erdoğan. He said, "What more can he say?"
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0573par0624	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0571par0625	What more can he say?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0574par0626	Because of Erdoğan... he said.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0575par0627	But you fixed it. You told me it wasn't like that.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0574par0628	No.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0576par0629	What's that got to do with it? Don't tease him.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0575par0630	Well, now I don't understand, Mr. Oluç. As Mr. Mustafa Adıl was taunting Adıl, I also received notes here, saying that you did not go to Omer Fethi Gürer to your district. Look, I got my notes, I got notes of who he was picking on, but you've already corrected what he said about Dersim Mountain, and you said it was wrong.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0577par0633	Yeah, he's here. Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0578par0634	He's here. What kind of a thing is that? The minister will say what he wants... no, the appointed officer will say what he wants...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0579par0635	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0580par0636	Here you go, Altay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0579par0637	The biggest insult to a congressman was chosen because of Erdoğan.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0581par0639	Mr. President, Mr. Saruhan told me...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0580par0640	Let's do this: Derim Mountain is one of Parliament's youngest MPs, and since she's our female friend, I'm making a positive distinction, not without teasing, but from your position...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0581par0641	That right is not positive discrimination.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0580par0642	I'm so sorry. Please, don't interfere. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0582par0644	First of all, Mr. Secretary, he may have been appointed by the President, but I came here with the votes of my people, a elected MP, not appointed. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP and CHP) And Mr. Secretary has drawn such a bright picture that if he's sincere, let him go to the stand and publicly explain to the public that all young people who owe loans will be expunged, and let's all find out that this budget really is the youth budget. When dozens of students were lying on the street, with the budget given to such foundations, no one could draw a daily rose painting with the budget that should be reserved for young people, young people laid on the street and young people slept on December 12th...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0580par0645	Yes, thank you, Mr. Dersim Mountain. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Gürer, you have made a request, why? Why don't you tell me what you want to say?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0583par0648	Give it to the young, to the young, to the young.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0580par0649	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to hear from Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0584par0650	I came to see you, but you weren't there. I want to answer your statement.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0580par0651	Yes, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0584par0652	Mr. Secretary, you're very good at twisting facts. I didn't get an invitation from you to let me know that you were going to Niğde. If you wanted to be next to the farmer, the shopkeeper, the pensioner, you'd find me. But I'll tell you one thing: I've written Niğde Sports History, and if you read Nüğde Sports History, you'll see where Niğde was dropped from in sports. You don't support amateur sports clubs in Niğde. The disabled went to Hatay, and the mayor of Hatay made them stay. We also bought the supplies for our deaf, dumb sports club. If you don't support athletes, don't get up here and twist the facts. There are no sports clubs left in the workplace, in the schools, except in sports clubs, in schools without gyms. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When we look at the whole thing, you can't justify yourself with a lot of words.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0585par0657	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0586par0658	When I spoke on the stand, he used the term "lier" three times in his place.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0585par0659	I'll give you two minutes on the stand according to 69. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0586par0662	Mr. President, thank you. I told the foundations and congregations that the vast budget of the sports Toto was being transferred today, as well as to the institutions associated with it in previous times. Mr. Secretary used a statement that I didn't want to take three times because he couldn't stand it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0587par0664	Sue him, sue him.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0586par0665	And here's another statement on the stand, and I'm returning all of these sentences to him with the same amount. [[Applause from CHP rows]] First of all, now, as he says, "No." See, in the Court report, it was quoted under the title of 103 million, 221,000 liras and associations. So I asked him that in the question motion, and I'm talking to the paper. His answer is nothing, my friends, so there's no detail. Which foundation, what was transferred to the community... what are you afraid of, Mr. Secretary? What are you afraid of? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, is it a lie that sports Toto Board of Directors doesn't make decisions? Is sports a lie about who the Toto Governing Body is made up of? Look, in the Commission, he said: "We have explained who it is.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0588par0670	5,000 facilities were built. How was it done?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0586par0671	Go online right now. Enter the Sports Toto website.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0588par0672	5,000 facilities have been built...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0586par0673	Look, it looks like this: it's a black page, look, it's like the back of Toto, it doesn't look black, it doesn't know who it's made of. You're lying about 6 million ads? Is it a lie that you gave 3 million to the Archers Foundation of Erdogan's son?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0589par0674	He's talking about something unstoppable again.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0586par0675	And again, has there ever been an investigation into the Sports Toto Agency? In the state institutions, in 2009, 2010, 2011, all state officials entering KPSS were investigated, were the people entering Sports Toto been investigated? I ask you, again, why are you hiding the Sports Toto Board of Directors, is that a lie you're hiding? Are you hiding reports of being chairman of the Governing Body in Toto, or are you hiding a lie? It's not just me, it's the Court. Open the papers, let's blow your cover. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0590par0725	Against him and the last speaker is İstanbul MP Mustafa Yeneroğlu. Here you are, Mr. Yeneroglu.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0591par0728	My dear President, my dear lawmakers, my dear nation, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Deva Party to propose the budget law of 2022. I salute you all with respect and conversation. In fact, there's not much need to discuss the budget itself anymore, because the budget has become the custodian before negotiations in the General Assembly, due to the lack of law and inequity of power. Unfortunately, today we have to address the Parliament of a country where the law has become completely ordinary. We're a country where even the claim to be a constitutional state, let alone a constitutional state, is dying today. The ruling forces are rejecting the separation, the President has gathered all power against the Constitution, and I am the state. In his understanding, it is the administration and the law and the judiciary. In a constitutional state, the power of the state is limited to law, and we have the power to see the Constitution as a liability, without authority and without unlimited force. The most fundamental device that forces the state to fulfill its commitments is independent judgment. It is in our power that the judgment is his own. We're going through a period where people are oppressed by criminal sanctions, where institutions are discredited, judicial decisions aren't implemented. The further we get away from the democratic law state, the poorer we become as a nation every day.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0592par0731	Whose votes are you there with, whose votes?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0591par0732	Isn't it rude to have friends? Please, it's a shame.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0593par0733	You were saying something else last year, and now you're saying something else.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0591par0734	That's all I was saying last year, precious brother. I was saying the same thing a year ago.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0594par0736	Mr. Yeneroglu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0595par0737	Whose votes are you there with, whose votes?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0591par0738	Mr. President, I mean...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0596par0739	There's noise, there's noise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0597par0740	Let's start over.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0598par0741	You can't hear it from the outside. You can address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0599par0742	Guys, I'm fucking dying for you, too, and I mean it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0598par0744	Mr. Yeneroglu, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0600par0745	Speak for yourself, don't speak for us, speak for yourself.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0598par0746	Mr. Bak, Mr. Bak, I beg you. Mr. Yeneroglu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0601par0748	I'm speaking out of your brother Osman, over.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0602par0749	No, speak for yourself.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0601par0750	That's not how it works, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0602par0751	On behalf of the person, speak for the person.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0601par0752	If you'll excuse me, I'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0603par0753	Mr. Yeneroglu...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0602par0754	Mustafa, you can't speak for us!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0603par0755	Look, you're not gonna teach me how to talk to the speaker on the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0602par0756	On behalf of the person, speak for yourself, you can't speak for us, okay?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0604par0757	And I don't speak for you, I speak for myself, why should I speak for you?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0603par0758	Mr. Yeneroglu, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0604par0759	Mr. President, but how am I supposed to talk?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0605par0760	You can't speak for us, speak for yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0606par0761	He's ashamed for you. He won't talk.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0607par0762	Mr. Bak, Mr. Bak!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0608par0763	Let me go, let me go, let me go, let me go! Please, brother, be afraid of God.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0607par0764	Mr. Yeneroglu, Mr. Yeneroglu, will you please look at me? I'll give you your time, your friends' conversations were not heard outside, sir, so please address the General Assembly, and I'll tell you what to do, and I'll make you take as long as you want. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0609par0768	Dear friends, what we're in today is a situation where the power doesn't hear, sees, hears, and the consciences are blinded, and we're already looking at it as numbers.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0610par0769	Don't look at us, look there, look there.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0609par0770	In the World Law Superior Index, we were ranked 117, among 128 countries. We're at the bottom of the international democracy index, we're in the same category as third world countries like Benin, Gambiya, Haiti. According to the Constitutional Court's statistics, the violation of 94.8 per cent of individual applications, which were originally examined from 2012-2021, has been decided. That's enough for us, for all of us, including me.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0611par0773	Shame on you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0609par0774	Turkey is ranked second in rights violations among 47 countries in the European Court of Human Rights statistics in 2020. Last week, the European Council of Ministers' Committee of the Council of Europe has added another disgrace to our report card, as the European Court of Human Rights initiated a violation procedure against the implementation of its decisions, which is the basis of our Constitution. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] The Supreme Court, the custodian of rights and freedoms, is constantly harassed by the ruling and his partner. The threat of closing the court or restricting the powers that have been denied has now become common.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0612par0778	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0609par0779	His ruling partner is so cut off from the understanding of the state of law that he describes the closure of the Constitutional Court as a need for counterterrorism. A Minister of the Interior who can accuse and threaten the President and members of the Constitutional Court and say, break the legs of the suspects and criminals, blame it on me. When the European Court of Human Rights is announced, we will make our move. He says, "We will make our move." He is a President who has condemned his own citizen to be absent for more than four years; he is a real tyrant.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0613par0781	You can't speak on the President's behalf. Speech!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0614par0782	Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0615par0783	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0616par0784	It's really overwhelming. He shouldn't have been so cut off from his feelings of mercy, let alone his feelings of justice. Dear lawmakers, it is our duty to get our country out of this deep well where it has fallen from every angle. As John Efendi wrote to Sultan Süleyman of the Law, he wrote: "If there is persecution in one place, if there is persecution in another, if there is injustice in another, if the sheep eat not wolves, but shepherds, or those who know, and they are thirsty."
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0617par0787	Come on!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0616par0788	If the cry of the poor, the poor, the needy, and the homeless ascends to the heavens. If no one hears this except the stones. Everyone just says, "I, I, I"/ and everyone who sees and hears all this.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0617par0789	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0618par0790	What the hell were you thinking when you went on the congressional list?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0616par0791	What we're fighting right now is a struggle for dignity.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0619par0793	You lost him, you lost him. You lost that fight.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0620par0794	Get out of here! Sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0616par0795	Though power has darkened the land, we will work with all our might in the hope of the bright days. Our sole purpose is to allow all our citizens to lead a life worthy of human honor. We're fighting for the end of injustices, and we must continue this struggle until we can establish a liberal state that accepts the protection of human honor and honor as a cause of existence.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0621par0797	You're on that stand with the votes of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0616par0798	My dear people, the real power drunk is at an end, the power drunk is now at an end. There's no point in saying anything to this power anymore. Our next agenda and all we care about is building happy tomorrows for our nation. I salute you all with respect and conversation on behalf of the DEVA Party. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0621par0801	With the votes of the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0622par0802	Shame on you!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0623par0803	Mr. Yeneroglu, please sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0624par0804	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0625par0805	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0623par0806	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0625par0807	Thank you, Mr. President. We read some very sad news today, and I got a promise from him. We learned that Merwan Betel had been attacked by a SIHA and had lost his life. You're going to say: "What's the big deal?" There are Yezidi Kurds sitting in the Shengal, and they've been threatened by genocide for the 73rd time, and they've been attacked. Today, the SIHA were bombed with two children in Merwan Betel's car, and he died, and his children were spared fire by the intervention of those who passed by. First of all, we condemn this attack. This attack on civilians is actually a war crime. He brought us criticism because we called him the Vice President yesterday. We wish he were here. It's a war crime.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0623par0810	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0625par0811	Because we're asking the ruling group what attack of Ezidi Kurds against Turkey in the Shengal. We're asking what's wrong with it. ISIS turned it into a land of slaughter, thousands of people died. Now, does Turkey want to complete the work that ISIS left unfinished? We invite him to explain it, and I asked the Foreign Minister about it, and I condemn the attack of ISIS, and he said, "I know genocide." I ask you publicly how you feel about today's war crimes and assassination, and I condemn you again.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit04spe0623par0812	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0623par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management for 2020 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account MEDEN AND PETROL PRODUCTION [[Continue]] 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account I) NAIR TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION INTERVIEW [[Continue]] 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 We continue with the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. We'll take 20 minutes, ten minutes as a question, and ten minutes of relevant questions that will be answered by the Ministers and the Deputy President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. First question, Mr. Sedative...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0626par0053	Mr. Energy Minister, 46% of global greenhouse gas emissions causing climate change are from coal use. As a country that has signed the Paris Agreement, we should be accelerating climate change reduction policies, but your practices are continuing to promote coal energy production. Isn't that a contradiction to climate targets? Do you have a comprehensive and realistic strategic plan that has been updated with the approval of the climate presidency to implement the intended targets? Or are you still working as an individual minister? Isn't your idea of opening new coal plants conflicted when carbon capture has failed all over the world? Are you going to create a calendar that will completely exit coal energy? On the principle of not leaving anyone behind, do you have any work to do in the renewable energy sector for employees in this line of work?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0623par0054	Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0627par0055	Mr. President, energy is man's indispensable need, and the need for energy is increasing, but fossil fuels in particular are seriously polluting the environment. As the National Movement Party, we favour environmentally-friendly, human-friendly energy, we favor renewable energy sources, we support the establishment of all protective measures, filters while using fossil fuels, we're in favor of reducing external dependence in energy. In this context, what is the distribution based on energy sources produced in our country right now? What's your prediction of the future? My city, Kahramanmarash, has the most important lignite coal deposits in our country. Avshin-Elbia lignite, what's your plan for the coal field? B unit, what's your take on running the coal field? How do you feel about the C and D coal field? What is the status of rehabilitation of current thermal plants? Are there gas filters made? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0628par0058	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0629par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Youth and Sports. He just called on the opposition to be online. Now let's ask him if he's got the guts to go on an online program with Twitch with young people, like Jahrain, Hype, WtcN. Mr. President has joined, Mr. Mansur has joined slowly. Is it possible that almost all of those young people have dreamed about the future abroad, and that almost none of those young people, called the Z generation, would vote for power, even though they grew up in their age, would be able to participate in any kind of unlimited, unrestricted, uncensored program and be online? We'll follow it together.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0628par0061	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0630par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've discussed today's massacre in Antalya with the Antalya Bar Association and the local press. It's a private home, and it's a home that's opened by those who express themselves religiously, but who use religion. There are some very serious irregularities here, and there's an outrageous massacre, and you need to give us more information about that. Mr. Minister of Energy, Diyarbakır, Urbana, Mardin, Batman, Şırnak districts, the farmers must pay their debts, we will not give electricity to the farmer who has not paid his debt next year. Do you realize that the Chairman of the Governing Body, who made a statement, has actually violated the farmers' rights? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0631par0066	Mr. Aydoğan... Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to call you Sener, but I'm going to ask the Minister who's trying to show us off, who thinks people's money is father money, and I'm going to ask him: We have young people who owe money to the Credit Homes Association, are they unemployed, poor and in need of the wrong policies of your government, and don't you blush at sending foreclosures to their door as power? Our drug-driving children are nearly 10 years old. Isn't that any of your business? How do you plan to handle this? I ask the court: The speculative news of municipalities run by trustees is flying through the air, is there an inspection of these municipalities, if not done? It says that no evidence was found under the supervision of some institutions. No evidence of 27 institutions, including the presidency, has been found. Did you really check it out? Thank you. Mr. Karahocagil...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0632par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for our two ministers. My dear Ministers, your services for our nation are far too valuable and significant to show in a second country in the world. First of all, on behalf of my people and fellow Americans, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. May God continue your service. The opposition, unfortunately, is not constructive. On the contrary, we will destroy, distribute, stop, we will not pay the tender money. It is the worst misfortune of this country that they have ever again opposed the world as unprecedented. Do you have a negative feeling about carrying out projects around the country because of their negative attitude? Or do you say, "Don't stop, don't stop, just keep going"? Separatist, yesterday I'm returning a party president's ugly act to himself and his party.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0631par0075	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0633par0076	I have two questions, first to the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources; you cut down seven hundred years of trees in Mersin Erdemli for the biomass plant you built in Karaman. Are you planning to produce energy by destroying trees? How many trees have you cut down now? Secondly, look at the Minister of Youth and Sports; now, Mr. Minister, you have raped the youth you forced into a cult home in Ensarda, burned them in Aladağs, and now you're indifferent to being beheaded. Don't you think you have any responsibility and no shame?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0631par0078	Mr. Kaya...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0634par0079	Mr. President, years of security policies, persistent resolution, unwanted social and political problems, along with the growing economic crisis, lead young people to suicide. In the district of Silvan, Diyarbakır, 29 people have committed suicide in the last year and most suicides are made up by young people. What are the reasons why suicides happen so often in a small town with 87 thousand populations, have you done any research? 2021-2022, what number of students apply for KYK dorms during training and teaching? How many of the students who applied have not moved to the dorms? Drug dealers on every street in Diyarbakir state that they are now openly doing so because of the security forces' lack of reaction. What is the number of young people in Diyarbakir who have been dragged into the drug swamp for years?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0635par0082	Mr. Coshkun...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0636par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Is it in your knowledge of the transformers that DEDAS builds on schoolyards in regional cities? We have launched an examination of the question proposal in ▪ Why are the transformers still being installed in the schoolyards despite your response? The meter of electricity used by the farmer to water the field in Urbana, Mardin, Diyarbakır, Batman, Şırnak and Siirt is placed at the top of the transformer poles by DEDAŞ. In addition, for reasons of Van, Hakkari, Ağrı and the missing fugitives in many cities, the citizens' counters are being moved to the tops of the poles. The right to track and monitor the energy paid for by all citizens who have been subjected to this exercise is also being blocked. What's the purpose of raising the power counters to the top of the poles? What's the cost of transport? How much is reflected on the citizen's bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0637par0087	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0638par0088	My first question to the Minister of Energy: Adıyaman Central Yaylakonak district of Karaçalı neighborhood, Little Bulls Group Houses, is that electricity cannot be provided to five households. Children are in the dark, citizens are victims. We're waiting for power to get here. Second question to the Minister of Sports: Mr. Secretary, you said you didn't discriminate in your speech. I'm proving it, you're discrimination; you're discrimination against Adıyaman. Adıyaman Kahta Sports and Adıyamanspor stats are inadequate, you haven't made the stats. Besides, we don't have carpet fields in our towns like the Yaylakonak, the Fountain, Kesmetepe, the Sambayat. When are you going to build carpeting grounds here? Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0639par0092	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0640par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. There is still no natural gas in the six districts of Kayseri, my constituency district. The ruling representatives, Sarıoglan, Akkışla, Felahiye and Özvatan, said they were being planned, but they didn't give us a date; when will natural gas arrive in our districts? The districts of Pınarbaşı and Sarız were not even included in planning. When will the natural gas, Pýnarbaşı and Saraz, which have been promised in every election for many years and have been made political material, come to plan? The citizen expects a clear date from you. My second question is to the Minister of Sports: There are four universities and about 75,000 students in Kayseri. The bed capacity of these students is around 8,500, which is insufficient for our city. Is there a study in Kayseri to resolve the housing problem? There are still no grass fields in the districts of Pınarbaşı, Sarıoz and Sarıoglan. Every year we ask, you promise to do it all the time. Is there a study or an investment plan?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0641par0096	Yes, Mr. Commission...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0642par0097	Mr. President, he came to us, he was cut off. Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0641par0098	Mr. Energy Minister, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0643par0099	Mr. President, thank you. A few moments ago, one of our group presidents, Mr. Ustah, had a question, which was actually on the agenda of the Plan and Budget Commission, but... that's how many investments are being made, but do you monitor it in terms of quality? We answered that question in writing, but you probably didn't get it, so at least I read it to you from there. In fact, it does not provide the government with any payment or financing for these investments made by electricity distribution companies, only the EPDK approves the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0644par0101	It's taken from the bills.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0643par0102	I'll tell you. It's reflected in tariffs because the investment has to be covered by law. What is the impact of investments on quality? I'll share with you the figures from the last 2018 to this side, which are measured per subscriber, the time of interruptions per minute, Mr. President: a thousand three hundred and seventy-nine minutes per minute in 2018, a thousand two hundred and forty-six minutes in 2019, five and fifteen minutes in the first six months, so there's a growing improvement.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0645par0105	It's growing in my painting, and it's growing seriously.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0643par0106	Yeah, I mean, I'll share those numbers with you again. As for other questions, the issue of climate change... as you know, the Paris Climate Agreement passed through our Parliament with a unanimous vote, a binding situation. Not just the Ministry of Energy, but all of our public institutions are preparing an action plan for the fight against the climate. As you know, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has also changed its name; it has become the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change. A presidency was established within that Ministry, a coordination centre was created. In this context, each ministry prepares action plans to face this goal, towards its carbon neutral target. In 2053, our president set the goal of fucking carbon neutral, or rather the goal of carbon zero, in which case, we need to neutralize carbon dioxide emissions, not zero, so we need to neutralize it. When we consider 2020 data, Turkey has 506 million tons of carbon dioxide released; we can swallow about 84-85 million tons of this in our swallowing areas, which is heavily forested. So we've got some serious distance ahead of us. Of course, energy facilities, especially fossil-fueled coal plants, are one of the major factors in carbon dioxide emissions. About 30 per cent of the production of coal electricity in Turkey is 36 per cent of the world average. In Europe, you know, some exit strategies have been set. There will be an exit, especially coal, in the direction of the carbon neutral target, by 2053. What difference does it make, the game, the plan? Carbon capture can change technologies, or the healing technologies in fuel can change that outcome. We've been keeping a close eye on these, too. The situation of farmers who don't pay or pay the farmers' debts in relation to the practices of DEDAŞ, of course, according to the regulations, before an electrical user pays the electricity debt, he's on the way to be cut off, but in the summer months, especially during the irrigation season, we have efforts to see the company to push them back to the right place, to pay off the farmer's debt. On the other hand, there are opportunities to benefit from the Agricultural Ministry's support mechanism in this region. We live this process together. Still, some questions came about his being planted on the poles. A variety of technological applications are being followed in terms of fighting the missing fugitive. Unfortunately, some of these areas have lost illegal practices above the Turkish average. This was 75 percent in the region five years ago, and is now below 50 percent in the region. In particular, we see that there is a serious impact on the assembly of these counters by moving to places where they can't be interfered. One of our deputies said that in a village in Adıyaman, there were no electricity in the house. Of course, Mr. Deputy, if I take the matter from you personally, I'll follow it, but there's usually similar demands: there's zoning outside the village settlement, and since it's unregistered, there may be some restrictions on electrocuting these buildings, probably from that. I'll leave it to the Minister here. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0646par0114	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, first of all, I condemn the testimony of Mr. Engin Altay, the Deputy Chairman of the CHP Group, when he tried to teach me a lesson in courtesy.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0647par0115	I condemn you, too.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0646par0116	It's all in the transcripts, so I'm returning them.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0647par0117	I'll put in a VAT and return it to you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0646par0118	We've been here since morning hours.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0648par0119	Where will you be?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0646par0120	Of course, we have an answer to every word.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0649par0121	So do we, so do we. What does that mean?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0646par0122	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0649par0123	I won't.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0650par0124	You shouldn't have come!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0646par0125	We have an answer to every word, but in the attempt to teach you a lesson of kindness, frankly, I leave your statements to the public's discretion.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0651par0126	What has this country become? Ataturk says: "I love the intelligent, agile, and moral person of the athlete. " Be fit for him, act according to him, and so is the minister.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0646par0127	You've got the song, you're leaving, but let's race in the service.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0652par0128	Talk decently! You're still spoiled, you're still cocky! What does it mean to hold the Turkish!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0653par0129	Don't you remember the statements you used, Engin?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0652par0130	I remember. Do you remember him using it?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0653par0131	Yeah, he didn't say anything! Mr. Altay, I listened to you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0654par0133	Mr. Secretary, we'd like to address the General Assembly, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0134	The Minister of this Cabinet...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0656par0135	Despite you, I'd like to thank you for your help.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0136	The Minister of this Cabinet...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0656par0137	Answer the questions, answer the questions.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0138	You have no right to introduce the ministers of this cabinet differently.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0656par0139	Answer the questions.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0657par0140	Under the provisions of the Civil Code, Mr. President, he must answer the questions.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0141	Come, let's talk about service and action.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0656par0142	Don't be a smart-ass, don't be a preacher.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0657par0143	He has to answer the questions under the Civil Code.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0144	Yeah, about the loans and scholarships...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0656par0145	If you are a minister, know your ministry.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0146	In regard to loans and scholarships, we have increased the number of students who have benefited nine times since 2002 and 14 times the amount of payment.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0658par0147	The number of students is increasing, the number of students.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0148	We give loans to every student who apply, and nearly 500,000 students get scholarships from us.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0658par0149	You've opened colleges to every neighborhood, every neighborhood.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0150	And we don't demand repayment from our student loans until the insurance entry is made.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0658par0151	Don't play with the numbers. You've opened schools to every neighborhood.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0152	We don't demand anything for two years, and after two years, the e-government enters the system, and if it has a statement that it hasn't started, the payment process is postponed until it starts.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0659par0153	Was the execution sent to the students or not?
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0154	I've just made demands regarding Adıyaman. I've written them all down. As in all Turkey, we have enormous work in Adıyaman, and in their districts, but we also complete what is missing. Kayseri Sarıoglulan district and dressing rooms have started contracting for the construction of the bleachers. In Kayseri, again, the construction of our 4,000-bed-access home is under way, and our 2.667-bed-access home is about to be completed, and we continue to work in both the university campus and other areas. We care deeply about each of our young people's benefits from both loans and scholarships and especially our domestic infrastructure.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0660par0156	Yeah, talk concrete, concrete! Talk to me straight!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0157	Our capacity for dorm bed, as you can see, is increasing day by day, there is no static situation; there is a study going on in all the provinces and counties. When we came to power, we raised the bed capacity of 190, 000 to 750, and we destroyed about 160,000 of them due to the conditions of earthquakes and so on.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0661par0158	Look what you've done in 20 years, students are lying in parks.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0159	In particular, however, in the final process, we have accelerated our policy of housing on campuses.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0662par0160	Mr. President, he's out of time, he's out of time. So we're not given time, the Minister's time continues. So you're saying no. You're continuing his time. You're making the Turk sing, the song! You don't talk to the Chosen One, you make the appointed one talk here! That can't happen!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0655par0161	We also speed up the process of building dorms on campuses in co-operation with the SEC, especially in major cities, taking into account the transportation of students and both time and expense in this sense. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0663par0163	Mr. President, not a single question has been answered! I haven't answered a single question!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0664par0164	The question-answer process is complete.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0665par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0664par0166	Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0665par0167	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0666par0168	Not one question answered, just one question!
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0664par0169	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to hear from Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0665par0170	I was going to ask the Minister two questions, asked one, and the other was half, so without misinformation, my question hasn't been answered. Let me ask you that question, if I may. Later, just for the record...
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0664par0171	Well, just ask because we've done the QA.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0665par0172	It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0664par0173	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0665par0174	Now, first of all, this is the cut time, Mr. Secretary, and I can give you the graph. By the time of the interruption from 2018 to 2019, the cuts are increasing radically. I didn't say investments are given from the budget. What's worse, Mr. President, is that the money from the citizen's direct bill is not invested, and the power cuts are increasing, but there's something worse, if you don't mind... Now, the other thing is, in exchange for this service, the distribution companies pay a fee, where do they get it? Again, it's on everyone's bill. Mr. President, in 2020, the price approved by the EPDK (EPDK) is collected from seven billion lira citizens and given to distribution companies one by one. We know what's going on with these distribution companies, and the important part of them are subsidiary companies, but when it comes to 2021, no one knows why the EPDK is making this decision, from $7 billion to 22 billion to $260 million.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0664par0177	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0665par0178	There is a 217 per cent increase in Turkey, Mr. President, which is reflected in the citizen's bill. So there's no change in the distribution service; the number of transformers is three to five identical, the number of subscribers is the same, the amount of power is three to five percent similar, but there's an increase of 217 per cent, that's a serious robbery, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be on top of that, so from $7 billion to $22 billion, put into the pockets of companies. We know why; all of the mid-level executives of the EPDK, who decided these tariffs, went to distribution companies with high money the day after they made the tariff. It's against the law, it's against the law, it's against the law here, and I've also claimed that the president of the EPDK is running this traffic himself. That's how much I claim it; I've claimed it in the Plan and Budget Commission, and there's nothing we've been told in return. I think it would be helpful for them to go on the record and be presented to public knowledge. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-07sit05spe0667par0181	Thank you. He's in the report, so if the Minister wants to answer, he can answer in writing. Members of lawmakers, I will now hand over the budgets of public administrations in the first round, respectively, to your votes, and to read their budgets and final accounts separately. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 2.198,221.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Grand National Assembly was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's central management account in 2020 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 1,747,955,495,91 Budget Expenses 1.547.492.840.06 Cancelled Fund 200.462.655.85 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 293,820.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Grand National Assembly were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Central Government budget for 2022 of the Public Control Agency will be adopted: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 46,828,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 46.828,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 of the Public Control Agency has been adopted. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Public Control Agency for 2020 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 Total allowance 35.547.900.00 Budget Expenses 32.021.426.99 Canceled Fund 3.526.473.01 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: 2) The National Administration Final Account for 2020 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 35.508,000.00 Collection 35.616.292.05 Refuge 61.41 Net Collection 35.616.230,64 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the Public Control Agency. I submit to your votes that the Constitutional Court be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 107,633,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Constitutional Court's central management budget of 2022 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Constitutional Court's final account of central administration in 2020 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management for 2020 Total allowance 72,762.150,70 Budget Expenses 64,898,409,72 Canceled Fund 7,863,740,98 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Constitutional Court's central management account in 2020 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Court's presidency be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Chairman of the Court 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 514.385,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Court's presidency was adopted in 2022. In 2020, I submit to your votes that the central administrative account of the Court's presidency be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Account for 2020 Total Payment 412,068,880.00 Budget Expenses 328.445.451.93 Canceled Fund 83,623,428,07 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Court's presidency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. ENERGY AND TABI EVIDENCE 1) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 5.325.227,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources for 2020 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Energy and Natural Resources Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total allowance 3.637.751.930.00 Budget Expenses 3.539.139.016.64 Canceled Fund 98.612.913.36 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. I submit to your votes that the Energy Market Editing Corporation be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Energy Market Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 394.052,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 394.052,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 was adopted by the Energy Market Organization. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account for 2020 of the Energy Market Editing Agency will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Energy Market Editing Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 390.332,000.00 Budget Expenses 316,984.626,76 Canceled Fund 73,347,373,24 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 329.337,000.00 Collection 449.553.929.03 Ret and Returns 6,163,859,34 Net Collection 443,390,069,69 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the Energy Market Organization. I submit to your votes that the nuclear organization be transferred to the central management budget of 2022, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Nuclear Editing Institution 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 219.025,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 219.025,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 of the Nuclear Organization was adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2020 of the Nuclear Organization will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Nuclear Organising Institution 2020 Central Management Terminate Account Total allowance 147.139.000.00 Budget Expenses 46,428,978,60 Cancelled Fund 100,710,021,40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 147.139.000.00 Collection 237,500,171,32 Ret and Returns 1,471,334,72 Net Collection 236,028,836,60 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2020 were adopted by the Nuclear Organization. I submit to your votes that the Department of Mine Review and Search will be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. MADEN DETECTIVE AND EARCH GOVERNMENT 1) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 941,744,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 941,744,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 of the Mining Study and Search Directorate has been adopted. In 2020, I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Department of Mining Study and Search will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Mining Study and Search General Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance is 1,088,220,000.00 Budget Expenses 1,009,321,373,86 Canceled Fund 79.198.626,14 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 21,084.673.04 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 640.901.000.00 Collection 957,582.105,92 Ret and Returns 1,486.942.39 Net Collection 956.095.163,53 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the Department of Mining Study and Search. I submit to your votes that the Department of Mines and Oil shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. MEDEN AND PETROL WORKS GENIORITY 1) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 499.372,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 479.372,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2022 was adopted by the General Directorate of Mines and Oil. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Department of Mines and Petroleum Affairs shall be transferred into the chapters of the Central Management account in 2020: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Mining and Petroleum General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total Payment 379.076,000.00 Budget Expenses 363.038.058.29 Canceled Fund 16,037,941,71 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 243.142,000.00 Collection 396.456.596.92 Ret and Returns 1,204,300,13 Net Collection 395.252.296.79 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the General Directorate of Mines and Oil. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. ENGLISH ENERGY, NUCLEER AND MANEN DEVELOPMENT 1) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mine Research Agency Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 328.422,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 327.422,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account for Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency will be transferred to its chapters in 2020: those who accept... those who don't. 2) Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 59,026,724,00 Budget Expenses 22.906.209.72 Canceled Grant 36,120,514,28 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 14,009,300,39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Collection 38,376,041,62 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of Turkey's Energy, Nuclear and Mining Research Agency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the National Bor Research Institute's central management account for 2020 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) The National Institute for Borbor Research 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 23.739.657.00 Budget Expenses 23.581.957.28 Cancelled Fund 157,699,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 13.066,000.00 Collection 22.289.950,76 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the National Bor Research Institute's central management account in 2020 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the rare Earth Elements Research Institute will be transferred to the section of its central management account for 2020: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. NORMAL TOPRACICAL ELECTIVES INSTITUTION 1) Rare Earth Elements Research Institute 2020 Central Management Predictable Account Total Payment 1,186,000.00 Budget Expenses 811,561.99 Canceled Grant 374.438,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 5.637,000.00 Collection 1.149.000.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 of the rare Earth Elements Research Institute have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Atomic Energy Agency for 2020 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkey's Atomic Energy Institution Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total allowance 170,527,770,75 Budget Expenses 169,426,295,50 Canceled Fund 1,101,475,25 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 212,031000,00 Collection 168,523,748,70 Ret and Returns 285.548.09 Net Collection 168,238,200,61 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Atomic Energy Agency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Youth and Sports will be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Ministry of Youth and Sports 2022 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 27.782.948,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Department of Youth and Sports's Central Management account of 2020 will be transferred into the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total allowance 22.505.599.767.35 Budget Expenses 21.91.142.423.06 Canceled Fund 18,090,722,92 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 566,366,621,37 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Youth and Sports were adopted in 2020. The budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the first round were thus accepted. I wish them well. Congressmans, the first round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 8th 2021) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
