tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2020 Central Management Computation Act Proposal. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the fifth round today. In the fifth round, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, Turkey's Ministry of Borders and Coastal Health, the Ministry of Medicine and Medicine, the Ministry of Health Institutes of Turkey, the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, the Ministry of Meteorology, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, the Ministry of Climate Change, Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, the Ministry of Family and Social Services, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Services, the budget and final accounts. OTHER WORKS FROM COMMISSIONS WITH THE COMISSIONS OF BLOOD 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account CIRKEY MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Centre Management Final Account for 2020 THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITUTIONS 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2022 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change 2022 Central Management Budget 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2022 Central Management Budget 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 1) Chairman of Climate Change 2022 Central Management Budget THE EVIDENCE OF THE CROSS AND THE GOVERNMENT 1) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Ministry of Family and Social Services 2022 Central Management Budget 1) Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2022 Central Management Budget 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2020 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, it is agreed that the talks on the tour will be committed to the political party groups and to express their opinion on the 62nd amendment of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes as a question, ten minutes as an answer, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the fifth round, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: Abdul Ahat Andican, İstanbul MP; Aylin Gütü, Isparta MP; Metin Ergun, Mügla MP; Zeki Hakan Sıdalı, Mersin MP; Arslan Kakukcuoğlu, Eskişehir MP; Fahrettin Yoshüz, Konya MP. Sefer Aycan, Kahramanmarash MP for the National Movement Party Group; Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, Gaziantep MP; Hayati Arkaz, İstanbul MP; Sadir Durmaz, Ankara MP; Sefer Aycan, Kahramanmarash MP; Arzu Erdem, İstanbul MP; Nevin Taşlıçay, Ankara MP; Ayşe Sibel Ersoy, Adana MP. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Habip Azak, İğdır MP; Semralı, Diyarbakır MP; Gülış Kılıç Koçyiğit, Muş MP; Sait Dede, Hakkari MP; Imam Taşçıer, Diyarbakır MP; Oya Ersoy, İstanbul MP; Murat Çepni, İzmir MP; Kemal Peköz, Adana MP; Ayşe Acar Başaran, Batman MP; Filip Kerestecioğlu Demir, Ankara MP; Diryet Dilan Taşdemir, Ağrı MP. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mehmet Bekkinoğlu, İstanbul MP; Burhanettin Bulut, Adana MP; Murat Emir, Ankara MP; Fikret Şahin, Balıkesir MP; Bayram Yılmazkaya, Gaziantep MP; Ali Şeker, İstanbul MP; Gökan Zeybek, İstanbul MP; Murat Minister, İzmir MP; Hasan Baltacı, Kastamon MP; Vecdi Gündoğdu, Kırlareli MP; Polat Şaroğlu, Tunceli MP; Metin İlhan, Kırşehir MP; Ali Fazilıl Kütahya MP; Candan Yütın, Kütahya MP; İstanbul MP; İstanbul MP; Murat Süçüçüçük, İzmir MP; Vecdi Şeklareli MP. Justice and Development Party Group Arife Polat Sıpı, Ankara MP; İsmail Günaş, Uça MP; Mustafa Esgin, Bursa MP; Selim Gültekin, Nığde MP; Öznur Çukık, Malatya MP; Şenel Yeyıldı, MP of the Army; Lütfiye Selva Çam, Ankara MP; Mufit Aydın, Bursa MP; Çimdem Koncagül, Tekirdağ MP; Ilya Şeli MP; Selahattin Minsolmaz, Kıreli MP; Osman Nuri Gülaç, Van Çifedem, MP; Samyın, MP; Ankara MP; Ankara MP. On behalf of the individuals, Bayram Özçelik, Burdur MP. Fahrettin Husband, Minister of Health; Murat Kurum, Minister of Environment Urbanism and Climate Change; Derya Yanık, Minister of Family and Social Services; Vedat Bilgin, Minister of Labor and Social Security. On behalf of individuals, Gamze Taşcıer, Ankara MP. Members of parliament, the first word now goes to Mr. Abdul Ahat Andican, on behalf of the Party Group. Mr. Andican, please. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Your time has been 15 minutes, Mr. Andican.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0002par0057	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have brought up the concept of medical populism, two scientists who evaluate the policies of governments towards the pandemic. This concept defined governments who initially ignored the epidemic, who later hid the truth from the public, who were trying to create the perception that they were fighting the most successful shows, and failed when it became clear that they had failed. All these governments had in common were non-transparency, authoritarian governments. Let's go back and look at the lines of the AKP's struggle with the pandemic. We've come to understand that the Science Board, founded with a great deal of excitement, is a panel of scapegoats who, when needed, have been charged with the role of scapegoat. In response to a question, Mr. President declared that he was protected from drinking berries every morning, and a AKP commissioner claimed that it would be all right if we drank the syrup from the parliamentary stand. He claimed that the virus would be gone by March 15th. Mr. Health Minister, in June, we suppressed the first wave, and I don't expect the second wave. He made a baseless statement saying, "I don't expect the second wave." And it was great advice to say that our most important weapon against the plague was not to be infected. In June, we will announce the local Coronavirus drug of Minister of Industry Varank. Let's remember the Legalep AKP congress held when Mr. Erdoğon gave people the speech of, distance, cleaning. In the days when the Pandem peaked, let's remember the citizens who fought in the bottom-down to take on 200 grams of tea bags that Mr. Erdoğan threw over the bus. When we remember all this, we see how far beyond serious power's approach to the epidemic is. At the beginning of the outbreak, tens of thousands of refugees moved to Greece's borders and exported the pandemic into Greece's hands during the outbreak to use the immigration card for the return of almost 20,000 of our citizens to the country without control. Let's remember a curfew in the middle of the night and chaos before they're given preliminary information. Let's remember the mask first through the mail, and then the e-government citizenship number, and then we'll finally distribute it through the drugstores, and after a month of chaos, the sale of the three-cent mask is undistended, and the reselling of the sale will be released. Let's remember that the VAT of Turkish Airways tickets has to be reduced from 18 per cent to 1.00 per cent, the decision to withdraw the down payment rate for mortgages to 10 per cent is presented between anti-infective measures. While citizens are waiting for direct government support, let's remember the start of a charity campaign with IBAN numbers in front of us. Let's remember that despite the fact that the fight against pandemic can only be achieved by handing over all the elements of the state and the nation, the government will block the aid campaigns of opposition municipalities and the banks will be seized. When we remember all this, we see that power is far from a coordinated management strategy against the epidemic. While the whole world is stockpiling diagnostic kits and masks, we export kits to America, masks to China. We boast and produce local and national diagnostic kits. Let's remember the importing of antiquities from China later on, while the nation is put to sleep with their bullshit. Let's remember that the malaria drug, which is described as causing serious health damage in the world of science, has been used to patients for high doses, until recently. Let's remember that the Ministry of Health, which takes advantage of detailed patient data from Western countries, does not open the data available to our country's scientists to allow scientific research into pandemics. I didn't feel comfortable with the health ministry proposal and the weekend curfew declared by the Ministry of Interior. Let's remember the fact that it was cancelled by the President. Although it is not based on any scientific grounds, let us remember that our citizens over 65 are sentenced to months of house arrest and that the people who died in the first month of our Minister of Health are elderly. A month before the release of the first patient in Turkey, Mr. Coral Akşener, it is necessary to build a Pandem hospital. Let's remember that by not taking the warning to the fort three months later, the Ataturk Airport was built on a side contractor's $2.5 billion-cost track as if there was nowhere else. Let's remember that our health minister, who applauds health workers who have been fighting life-threatening throughout his pandem at the TBMM, has not been able to honor offers like double wages for health workers, additional payments, until almost yesterday. Let's remember that the proposals for Covid-19 were ignored, such as the acceptance of covid-19 as an occupational disease, and the acceptance of health workers who lost their lives in the line of duty as martyrs. Let's remember a non-human study environment, like being examined five minutes apart, keeping watch for thirty-six hours, turning every complaint made through CIMER into an execution, leaving doctors vulnerable in cases of Malprax for no reason. It's pretty clear what this is all about. The government, meanwhile, was flying ambulances from Sweden, sending masks and disinfectants to various countries of the world, showing off. At the same time, the Oxford Internet Institute announced that together with China, Russia, Iran, Turkey has turned its pandemic campaign into an internal propaganda tool that would harm the world's Covid-19 struggle. From the beginning of Covid, there were doubts that the Ministry was hiding the number of patients and deaths. In opposition, we were attacked by AKP trolls when we said these things, but in October the Health Minister had to admit that they did not include positive test positive patients who did not give any indications on the warnings of the World Health Organization. So all of a sudden, we were confronted with the fact that we were in the first part of Europe, the fifth part of the world, in terms of the number of patients, and the Minister of Health tried to defend it in order to protect our national interests. So in the fight against power's pandemic, the perception bubble exploded that we were the most successful country in the world. Today, we face something similar about vaccines. At the time of the agreement with Sinovac in November last year, why was there no agreement made with BioNTech, or not asked? Mr. Health Minister said on various grounds that these vaccines preferred the safety of the people, the security of young people, to ensure security for the future, but at the same time, many countries had signed the agreement from the United States to Israel, from Peru to Malaysia. And then Mr. Health Minister came out and said, "I need it by April 2021, and then my vaccine will kick in." Even though he knew the local vaccine couldn't be produced in three or four months, if that's what he was saying, he was cheating on the public. However, if he really believes it's going to be produced in three or four months, he shouldn't be sitting in the Ministry of Health seat, and as a matter of fact, the Turkovac vaccine has just arrived on the emergency use agenda today. In February, he boasted of supplying a total of 100 million vaccines from China, but later, when it arrived in April, he said, "There are days ahead without vaccines." And at that time, Mr. AKP President said, "I do not accept that we will have trouble supplying the lover, we have enough vaccines right now." Fortunately, the mRNA inventor, Uður Şahin, stepped in and was able to restart the immunization process of our people after a four-month blackout at this point. Of course, there's no way we can calculate the cost of these four months in terms of health. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health is continuing the process of not being transparent. He's trying to create the perception that he informs society by simply giving the number of tests, cases and deaths done, regardless of the details of age, vaccinated or vaccinated, whether there's an additional disease or not. Friends, without transparency, without informing the citizen, there's no way to fight the plague. So we can't get the rate required to inoculate it. There's a lot to say about these things, but we're short on time. So, I'd like to make some suggestions to Mr. Health Minister: First, we need to turn the Refik Saydam Institute, which has been shut down without delay, into a center for the fight against epidemics, like Robert Koch in Germany, the Pasteur Institute in France, beyond the production of vaccines. In the future, modern vaccines such as mRNA are understood to be more intensive in terms of the consequences and international constraints needed against viral outbreaks. The production technique of these vaccines appears to be used in cancers and chronic diseases. Thus, Turkey must invest in modern vaccine techniques along with traditional vaccine production systems such as Turkovac. The founders of BioNTech, the Hawk and Türeci couple, may lead Turkey to such infrastructure because they are of Turkish origin. In terms of health, the city hospitals, which are run by the private sector, have become a black hole in Turkey, as well as economically. 13 hospitals have been built and worked so far; there are 17800 bed capacity, friends, and almost 20 per cent of the Ministry of Health has been assigned to this 17800 beds, and the Ministry of Health has about 145 thousand beds in total; I don't think there's any need to do a detailed analysis. So with that understanding, of course, that city hospitals have become such a black hole, both the Ministry of Health and the administration have noticed, and last year -- you will remember -- it was decided that the new hospitals would be built entirely by public resources, and I think nine hospitals have been auctioned off in this way. Of course, the government here doesn't want to accept it in a shy manner to understand that these city hospitals are a system in which we can pay off our debt to our grandchildren in terms of the country, but its practices show that they've given up. It is a great danger to our healthcare system, especially when health workers begin to migrate to the outside world and migrate to high numbers. There's no way to prevent it by making small improvements to employees. They are obliged to adjust their working conditions, economic conditions and environments to the standards of the world, so you must do so. And what you have to do in a sentence for city hospitals, I'm going to suggest that from the very first possible opportunity, you're going to have to start working on the nationalization of these hospitals. (Applause from parties) The SUT payment system, which your ruling has been holding constant since 2016, is now in debt to medical schools, for reasons such as the fact that students' medical fees do not contribute to rotating capital or preventing it. The administration of the University of Marmara Hospital is now in the hands of the Ministry of Health because of these debts, and the power, like Surgery Pasha, is likely to allow those debts to increase in order to take over medical schools, such as Chapa, in order to manage them. Friends, as long as you can't keep up with the quality of medical schools, universities, you can't improve the quality of doctors who have graduated in this country. (APPLAUSE) That means the country's healthcare system will collapse in its future across the country.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0003par0074	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0002par0075	So stop being stubborn and make these arrangements. There are other things to say, I don't have time, but at the point of considering our proposals, I'm making a wish to the Minister of Health. Otherwise, Mr. Minister of Health, we will implement these proposals as soon as power comes to power as the FDA, and we will take measures to turn our society's health system into one of the best health systems in the world. That's what I want to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0004par0079	Mr. Aylin Brave... Here you go, Mr. Brave.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0005par0082	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, esteemed MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We're interviewing the Health Department budget. The 21st century brought in the modern social state, and the social state, in addition to justice, security and education, is the state's greatest responsibility, its health. There are four universal standards for the government to carry out this task: one is that health is affordable by everyone; two is that all citizens have access to health care; three is the introduction of adequate attention to all citizens; four is the ability of health workers to work on humanitarian conditions. In addition, it is necessary to build a state capacity that will keep these standards running. This requires a long-term state plan; two, a social health strategy; three, being prepared for crises and being able to provide responses to crises. As a doctor's MP for a candidate and prepared party to take over the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey in the next term, I say that the current government has failed in these seven areas of health.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0006par0086	You're going to have to put the presidential candidate...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0005par0087	What am I saying? Is the Minister in charge? No. From the six 2010s of our healthcare system, the performance system and the uncontrollably privatised privatisation of health and health began to be dynamited. The goal and the rhetoric was to get health care from everywhere, and the result and the conclusion began to evolve into a system where the person with the system's money can reach health. No one got an appointment, no health care, no shipping system, our college hospitals were neglected. With the closure of the Refik Saydam Institute for Hfzishah, our capacity to develop vaccines has also been a victim of the era. Patients went to private hospitals, private hospitals, doctors looking abroad for better conditions. More health workers were raised in health schools than we needed, but they couldn't be appointed. The city hospitals we've met since 2017 have become unreachable to hospitals, with the runt program. The Health Department budget, for short, has been crippled. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Now, to this day, he's been violent in health, and he's gone, and we're dealing with a failed control of the corona virus. No offense, we have to say it one by one because I'm here as a doctor. I'll tell you how to manage the health of Turkey, what needs to be done, because we're going to fix the wreckage you're going to leave. You've been in power for 20 years, and when you arrived, we had a health care system in almost every village with a health clinic, a hospital in every county, a doctor. In 20 years, the world has changed, and so has technology. In 20 years, any government would open new hospitals, take advantage of technology in the healthcare system, bring them to those hospitals; what's normal, what's not? You're responsible for what you did, Mr. Secretary, and you're responsible for what you did. Our argument is clear; it could have been done better, and we warned you, our medics warned you, civil society warned you, the public warned you, and complained. I'm afraid you've handled your health as well as any field, and I'm very sorry to say so. It was human life, but you couldn't get the ranta on your palms, but unfortunately you didn't care. This is a $116 million budget, 6.6 percent of the entire budget should have been definitely higher during the pandemic period. I don't know how much you fought during the budget plan, Mr. Secretary, but it's not enough or the government is aware of the health crisis we're in. We're the last of 37 OECD countries in our GDP compared to our GDP, and we're down to two doctors per thousand, OECD average 3.6; we're down to 2.4 nurses per thousand, OECD average 8.8. We brag about it, you brag about it, but look, that's the way it is. There are 38 billion grants in foster care, which means that half of those assigned to treatment services and each of our citizens will receive $37 per month of protective care. 50 masks cost $25, flu vaccine costs $117, a dose of BioNtech vaccine costs $200, but only $37 per person. The cost of treatment services is far greater than the budget, so there's no accounting books, but your budget is focused on treating the disease rather than preventing it. Your 2020 budget was 10 billion dollars, today's 7 billion, 30 percent smaller. Yeah, the difference this year was more dramatic, 17 percent of the year before because the drugs, vaccines, equipment, energy, city hospitals guarantees all depend on exchange indexes and exchange. Look, the budget for personnel costs has increased by 30% last year, but it hasn't increased when you look at the fact that inflation is 30%. I mean, it means that both our doctors and our paramedics don't have enough funding and raises, and the new recruits don't have much to do except for those who have resigned, all of them who can't be appointed. Now, let's just say that we have an objection to what the city hospitals have, and let's just say: the rent to 13 hospitals is $14 billion, the service purchases are 7.5 billion, which is one fifth of the budget; 13 hospitals go to 13 hospitals, and when you think 81 hospitals and all the hospitals in the districts don't get this much, you see how big a picture we're dealing with. As our President-in-Chief, Mr. Coral Akşener said, we're not against hospitals, we're against Ranta, we're against Ranta. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] And in a nutshell, city hospitals have taken over the Health Department budget. We don't have a sufficient health budget during the pandemic period; we don't have a budget to provide good conditions for our health workers; we don't have a budget to protect public health; we don't have a budget to strengthen universities and public hospitals, to increase RD. So, what is it? There's a bad pandemic administration. Every day, 200 of our citizens die of coronavirus; they're official data, but it doesn't reflect the truth, and I don't believe it. I've asked you, Mr. Secretary Plan and Budget because we have 0.9% of the world's case-death rate. In response to the commission, you said: "We don't count the PCR positives." So there are so many more deaths, why don't you process them, Mr. Secretary, we expect an answer from you here. Because imagine that he died of blood loss to the person who died from a knife wound. It's basically the same thing as hiding the knife. When you hide the danger and the quantity of it, when you hide it because you're anxious to show it, then the public doesn't adapt to it, and the inoculation rate is lower, and people become less paying attention to it, and that's the case of the pandemic. Now, 20 percent of over 18 years of age have not been vaccinated; the vaccine has slowed down too much, and we are 68 percent to complete inoculations in the world. The countries have started to make various sanctions, and we still don't have them; we ask when and when. You explained in September: 83 percent of hospital residents, 90 percent of deaths have not been completed. Why don't we take more serious sanctions on this issue? Why is the inoculation still low in our eastern provinces? The overlap of Turkey's map of poverty and the map of immunization is a human drama and also a lack of health management; I stress that. See if we have a new pandemic strategy, and share them with us. And we're asking for an emergency strategy worthy of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey. Right now, the only ban on fighting pandemics is on live music after twelve o'clock. I want to know how useful this is, how much you're struggling with it. Now, we don't know the distribution of cases and deaths by gender for over 20 months. We didn't model any epidemics; they were arbitrary and politically closed. The bans were not politically followed, the citizens were taken home, and the conventions were held, and we did not forget them. Hydroxychloricin was not used in other countries, but it was given to our citizens for months. Now, it's our right to ask that, of course, when the vaccines are brought in and other issues are tied to the Ranta, and the mask management, and the Minister of Disinfectant and all that sort of thing. Look, as a doctor, if you try to accept people who are not citizens of the Republic of Turkey when you're accepting patients from outside, and you confront us with the possibility of moving all of Covid's variants to Turkey, there will be one more incident, and we need to tell you that. On the other hand, public health scans, filaration, isolation have loosened up. Still no sign of 75 million doses of vaccines ordered from China. There are reports that the BioNtech event has been reduced since the 6th month. The world is vaccinating the third dose, and we want to know what the third dose is going to be. If you're waiting for Turkovac, you're making a big mistake. Why? And I'll tell you right away, it's been a year since the vaccines in the world came out, and we lost our savings because you shut down Refik Saydam in 2011. Each month, you give us the news of the vaccine, which is good news and good news, but the vaccine is long gone, but the inactive vaccines have little effect on the new variants that had been developed for old variants. This has now been proven, so let's supply our vaccine. Finally, we'll make a decision to turn back from your mistake and open an RD production center. You said. Mr. Secretary, this is a big mistake made ten years ago, not your fault, but please call it Refik Saydam. The supplemental payments to the paramedics were a joke. You couldn't protect our colleagues' rights. There are 800,000 health workers waiting in 39 majors. We're asking why you didn't make these appointments when the health worker needed them the most. With the money paid to city hospitals this year, we could have employed 136 thousand health workers on a salary of $10,000. I'm going to talk about this in my speech on December 16th, and I'm not going to be able to make it today, and I'm not going to be able to make it today. You're responsible for the disregard of our first army, the family physicians, all of them, and as I said, what you've given me about medicines and medicines and what you've done, and what you've said has not been done as well as what you've decided to put dynamite in the health system. I hope this will be your last budget. Don't let our people worry, after this, we're trying to figure out what kind of health strategy we should have. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I need a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0007par0105	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0005par0106	We know that doctors and teachers are the engine of our health care system. They're going to be strong so they can take care of all the health workers, and that's actually a manifestation of the crisis of the economic crisis, of the management, of the people that you're already projecting as if they're getting a raise. If we're going to do it, it's going to take care of a million and a half health workers. Not Rantta, but we're going to have a budget for health satisfaction, with vision, goals, and seven targets that I've just counted. The Ministry of Health in the Fine Party administration will be the Ministry of 1.5 million health workers, which we promise from here. (Applause from party lines) And we, Mr. Crimean Aziz, are a professional group who have learned community health from Nusret Fishece, who have built the Republic of Turkey with the Refiq Saydams, who have built the Republic of Turkey, who have done the revolutions, who have achieved life-threatening work on the front lines, and I vow from here that we will not crush this profession under the rule of international capital. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] I salute all of you, and wish you the best of our health department budget.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0007par0109	Dear Metin Ergun.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0008par0111	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Urbanism and Climate Change in 2022 on behalf of the Good Party Group, and I hereby salute your grand delegation. The ministry's budget, which was $378 million in 2021, was estimated at $4 billion,873m for 2022. Although there seems to be a significant increase in proportion to last year, it is clear that the ministry's areas of duty and responsibility will not be sufficient, given the width and the loss of great value in Turkish lira. In addition, about $2.5 billion of the budget of $4 billion,873 million, will go to the expense of personnel. Turkey already has very serious infrastructure and exponential problems, and also the need for the restoration of the urban infrastructure and upper structure of all Turkey against the extraordinary conditions of climate change. There is also a need for urban transformation against the risk of earthquakes. Thus, we believe that the budget for central management, which we call the absence, poverty, and poverty budget, as well as the budget for this ministry, which has areas of activity that affect every area of our lives, has the same qualities in terms of environmental and urbanism. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Honourable lawmakers, as you know, there are a large number of parks that we call the "Earth, Urbanism and Climate Change Ministry" -- uncoupled, independent of top-scale plans, and unsustainable. The construction of these was not started until local governments, without the opinion of locals or scientists, were received, without participation. Clearly, these days, when poverty and poverty are deepened, the resources of the nation are buried in the ground for the runt, without being asked. If we're still doing these runts and taran projects to increase urban green areas and protect nature in Erzincan Province, then how you allowed the mining activities of a Canadian mining company in the Kaz Mountains to be cut down 200,000 trees, which you acted with in order to cut down 5,000 trees for Fatsa's goldmine, and why you again set up the forest area in Fatsa Çerces Hill, why you would build the forest area in Erzincan Ilic, why you would not be able to take the nature and nature of a Canadian mining operation in the Kaz Mountains, why you would be able to remove the land in Marmariss, why you would be able to remove the land, and why you would be able to increase the area of the land of the area of the field, and why you would be able to increase the area of the area of the area of the area of the region of the field of the region of the field of the region of the region of the region of the region, and why there would be a field of the area of the area of the area of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region, and why you would be a thousand, and why you would be an area of the area of the area of the region of the region of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the province, and why you would be an area of the area of the area of the area of the region of the area of the region of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the region, for the area of the area of the area of the area of the province, and why you would be compromised, and why you would be compromised of the area of the area of the province, for the province, for the province, for the area of the area of the province, and why you would be compromised of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the province, fore, fore, and why you would be compromised of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area of the area Reverend lawmakers, another area in which the Ministry remains in class is a matter of urbanism based on Ranta and Talan, as there is no serious progress on urban transformation to prepare for earthquakes. As it is known, Turkey is a country at risk of earthquakes most of its facial measurement. Despite all the warnings of scientists, it is not possible to talk about a significant urban transformation or preparation for earthquakes across the country, particularly Istanbul. Millions of structures are vulnerable to the earthquake. Another thing that should be emphasised on ruling urbanism policies is the destruction of the historical and natural heritage of our cities, which reflects the code of our culture and our vision of civilization, with the sense of destructive urbanism that power has established. Our cities, which are the mirrors of our history and culture, have been dealt with with with with inimitable damage in a hostile way. A significant part of the damage was given by the understanding of vertical and warped urbanization, which came from the tolerance and encouragement of so-called horizontal architecture. But cities are far beyond any approach where the understanding of civilization and historical cultures of the nations are exhibited. Cities bear traces of the souls of civilization that they belong to, but sadly, the insatiable appetite of power has made all our cities unidentified and unsubstantiated, almost a pile of concrete. It's been made unclear which culture and which civilization our cities carry. But civilization and the city are both elements that cause each other's existence and feed each other. I regret to inform you that the light of civilization does not rise from a geography whose cities are so unidentified. The year 2021 has been recorded as a year of major environmental catastrophes for our country and the world. For example, because of years of pollution, the oxygen levels in the Sea of Marmara have dropped, and the marine ecosystem has eventually collapsed, unable to compensate for biodiversity. As a result of all this, there has been a major Islamic disaster that we can view as the final scream of the Sea of Marmara. The power, unfortunately, has taken no precautions to the disaster that has been saying, "I've been coming for years!" Industrial and urban waste, which was discharged directly to the Sea of Marmara, or through streams such as Ergene, have not been prevented and pollution has been publicly encouraged. Thus, in the disaster that occurred in the Marmara Sea, the power has a responsibility that goes far beyond negligence and imperfection, because for many years the ruling environments have been affected by warnings about the contamination of industrial waste of rivers in the region, especially the Ergene River, and the spill of this pollution into the Sea of Marmara. As a result, the Ergene River was killed, and then, unfortunately, the Sea of Marmara was killed. Today, the ruling party describes the cleanness of the musilation reflected on the sea surface as a success story. However, the situation that is happening today is nothing more than the medical equipment of a brain-dead patient. Members of lawmakers, not only is it Marmara, but our other seas and streams are also under heavy pollution. In terms of the future of both our seas and our rivers, an effective collaboration with local governments on all sides of Turkey must begin the investment of several chemical and biological treatment facilities immediately. As with all environmental policies, this issue is a matter above politics, and as Turkey, we cannot afford to waste any more time. Otherwise, as a generation or a power that has watched Turkey destroy its natural beauty, history will condemn both you and us in the eyes of future generations. The risks we face about seas and streams are also about lakes. Because Turkey's lakes dry out one by one every passing year. More lakes than we can count here are either completely dry or almost dry. When the lakes dry, only the water reserves of the lakes are drying up, and the ecological balance in their locations is also devastating. In recent years, the lakes of climate change and global warming have been left to its destiny in Anatolian geography, which has been scorched by extraordinary droughts, and it is not possible to say that power has taken any serious measures; rather, as we have seen in other environmental disasters, power continues to promote this picture. The Agricultural and Forestry Ministry and State Waterworks have brought to life the environmental impact assessments of the HES (HES) and the wild irrigation in agriculture, and then the lakes are slaughtered. Therefore, Turkey is rapidly becoming a water-poor country. At this point, the ministry, with a clear responsibility, has a dirty record, and it's very dark. Instead of supporting and collaborating local governments, as our country needs major transformations in all areas under the ministry's responsibility, the government has scurryed the authority of local governments in many areas and has made their work inextricable. Turkey's ecological future is at risk, this partisan attitude that the government puts in such political superior areas. Congressmans, another major environmental disaster in our country in 2021 is forest fires, as you know. In the forest fires that engulfed the Aegean and Mediterranean region, the area of my constituency, the area of 70 thousand hectares, and about 30 million trees, as described by our president, Mr. Meral Akşener, I repeat, have been burned to ashes by intelligent fires. In these fires, the production of pine honey and olivery, leading to the most important livelihoods of our villagers in the region, has been severely damaged because the largest, most important elements of pine honey production, the Persian pines, and tens of thousands of olive trees have been reduced to ash, and the number of olive trees have been destroyed beyond our expectations. In the growth of fires and the deepening of disaster, the impregnation and incompetence of power are known to all. Fires, however, have caused irreparable damage to the forest ecosystem, causing serious floods and landslide risks for settlements as well. Our mugular citizens have called on authorities to take precautions by expressing the risk of floods and landslides after the fires, but in the course of time, the necessary measures have not, unfortunately, been taken. As a result, last week and just yesterday, burnt wood and plant remains carried by rainwater blocked the creek beds, causing floods in Marmaris and different parts of Bodrum. Thus, the risks and threats of burning forest areas must be eliminated immediately. With the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change in handling the risks caused by forest fires and reforestation...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0009par0123	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0008par0124	...between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forest and the local authorities, there is a need for strict cooperation and co-ordination. It has to be known that multidimensional environmental risks and threats continue to increase and await solutions. It is imperative that the government act on these matters as soon as possible and recognize the duties and responsibilities of environmental policy. Before I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I wish for the immediate return of the wrongs I've mentioned so far in terms of environmental and urbanism, and I wish that the budget of the year 2022 would be blessed and auspicious.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0009par0127	Mr. Zeki Hakan Sedali... Mr. Sedal, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0010par0130	Mr. President, we are in the process of a new industrial revolution that will transform humanity and the world. The industrial 4.0 transform is rising on the pillars of innovation, flexibility and efficiency. The disruption of the global supply process during the period of Covid, which you regularly complained about, will create important opportunities for our country, with its strategic position at the far east, the far west of the east, the far west of the east. So, what do you do when you're taking advantage of these advantages and making a development move with modern instruments? You're putting together a freaky Chinese model. It's not a Chinese model, it's Chinese torture. What is this Chinese model? The success of the cheap labor force, the slavery of the modern age, where the employee is no one, no one gets what he deserves, no one gets what he deserves, no sweat, no success, no standard. What says Akif, our literary poet: I have lived free forever, and I will live free. Who is crazy enough to chain me? I wonder! Your model of captivity does not suit us; it does not take away the province of Turkey and its customs from China. In your so - called fight for economic salvation, neither friends nor allies from China. Look, you know what I mean to the Uygur Turks. China succeeded, and so do we. The system you call autocratic regimes is a system that enriches its elite and makes the rest of society poor. Don't tire yourself, you've already made your elite rich and completed your mission. I say again: This may suit you, but as Akif Nah said, the free living does not suit us. We've been poor for the last ten years, now we're poor, and tomorrow you're looking to make subjects of the rich. Do you intend to express your personal interests in the political interests of the muslims, while the people are devastated and exhausted in debacle? Ataturk a hundred years ago, son of the Turkish future! It is your duty to save the Turkish will and republic. It is found in the noble blood in the veins of power, which you are in need of. He expressed our duty. And our advice to you is not to go outside looking for the cure, but the searchers have not found it. Now for the President of Climate Change. We're not just entering climate and environmental policies, we're entering the climate age, the new climate regime, where we need to radically change economics, industry, education, employment markets, tax, foreign trade, social protection policies. This doesn't work with the president. There's a lot of relevant ministries. You started with a cool perception like revolution, but the Ministers of Energy, Treasure, Agriculture passed through your great revolution with a vague sentence, the Minister of Technology mentioned a little bit, but he was extremely inadequate. The phrases, the recipes fly away, the facts roll downhill, like the economy. The bureaucrats know exactly what needs to be done, but the decision makers do. While you're sleeping, climate change problems are also our nightmare. I've said it for months, and I'm telling you again, we need a leadership agency, a ministry of ecological transition, more effective than a ministry of the ministry. Because the world is on the verge of a twin transformation today. Digital transformation and green transformation are simultaneous and moving arm to arm. The digital and green transformation that divides all sectors horizontally represents not only an environmentalist but also an economic transformation, so it's not romantic, it's realistic. In short, a new world is being built. The sides are polarizing in this frame and preparing for tomorrow's world. And you dream of growing up in old-fashioned ways, pawning your sweat. You're on the wrong path, very, very wrong. The economic model our country needs to follow must be built on the principle of sustainable development, period. The countries that do not participate in green and digital transformation will be excluded from world trade, technology transfer and global financing. Therefore, short, long-term investments must be opened up from termal advantages. Studies for sustainable financial strategies, natural capital accounting and green bonds that the world is working on must be started immediately. Because it's time to join or toss. So, where are we in this mentality? The performances of 60 countries and European Unions with the highest emissions, including Turkey, were evaluated in the Climate Change Performance Index 2022. With this index, we ranked 42nd in the Paris Climate Agreement approval and net zero emissions for 2053, from very low performance level to very low performance level. Elevating in the performance index depends on the proportion of promises made. A man's ritual is a matter of speech, and they're not talking, they're looking at work. First, a statement of intent consistent with their 2053 targets must be announced immediately. It's not just a statement of intent. In 2053, we have to cut emissions in half by 2030, in order to achieve zero emissions and contribute to keeping global warming below 1.5 degrees. We know that the climate crisis is a matter of national security that triggers disasters, migrations, social and economic crises that have become the age of multiple crises. So, what do you guys do? On the one hand, you call this budget the budget of the green development revolution, and on the other hand, you encourage the production of energy out of coal, giving carbon capture systems hope and signals to open new coal plants while there are dozens of failed examples around the world. When you don't listen to your bureaucrats, when you're out of line, I'm afraid it's back and forth. Three months ago, coal was $50 a ton, and now it's up to $300. When you produce one kilowatt of electricity from the coal for $3, you produce one kilowatt of electricity from the sun to the wind, one kilo of electricity from the wind. Says who? Deputy Minister. At least listen to what he says. You see, electricity from renewable energy is now cheaper than coal, so let me just say. So it's not just about the environment, it's about the economy. Because of your confusion and your day-to-day decisions, the citizen pays more billed. Once again, the lucky minority wins, the smoke in the citizens' lungs stays in the wood of burning coal. In order to reduce energy costs and increase sharing and participation, we need to encourage co-operativeization in renewable energy production and micro initiatives. Take, for example, the example of fair income sharing. Grant solar panels to our narrow-income citizens so they can at least get rid of some of their bulging electricity bills. And deliver the burden of prosperity to the low-income, and do not charge it to the wages. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've said over and over again that education is the beginning of everything. Unfortunately, the national education curriculum does not include a lesson in climate change. We asked the ministry, and they said the current curriculum was enough. Such an important subject cannot be moved by just a few lines in the courses of social information, science. We thought there was going to be a recommendation from the Education Service, which was collected last week, and he didn't come out. We're already calling for the Climate Fair in January: Please make this decision in Şura, which is the defining platform for climate change. According to the survey, politicians' approach to climate is a feeling of disappointment, anger, and pessimism for young people; they are right. Of course, the only thing they're depressed about in our country is not the climate crisis, but the young are desperate from the future; they're right. Youth trapped between unemployment and a minimum waged modern slave coil is hopeless by your twenty-year policies; they're right. Young people want to work for people, to be valued, to get a fair salary, and they're right.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0011par0143	Complete.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0010par0144	I'm completing it, Mr. President. It is possible to include in our production ecosystem the new fields of digital and green transformation, to educate young people in these areas, to compensate for the skills of current employees and to support the process through lifetime learning programmes, to pave the way for micro initiatives. It's a pity you don't even know it. I believe our country will flourish, prosper, and become democratic. I know that won't happen with you. At first, the young, the whole nation, don't worry, it's been four years since the seeds of our salvation began to grow with us. His hope is in the deceptive silk fabric of the Far East. We will not look for it in the sandy winds of the Arabian deserts. We have potential, we know what needs to be done. As Mr. Coral Akşener said over and over, we'll come, we'll figure it out. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0012par0148	Mr. Arslan Shellcucuoğlu...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0013par0150	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, the esteemed MPs, the precious Turkish nation watching us on TV, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my Good Party Group on the budget of 2022 of the Ministry of Family and Social Services. According to the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, which was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly of November 20, 1989 and has been a part of our country since then, individuals under the age of 18 are described as children. This contract has mandated entity governments to protect the child against any exploitation. With the change made in 2002, people in our country are able to marry their own initiatives at the age of 16, by the decision of their family at the age of 17 and by the age of 18. In my speech, I'm going to talk about children's-age marriages that are a fundamental human rights violation, especially threatening the future of our daughters. When you say marriage at the age of a child, you understand all marriages under the age of 18. Children's marriages began to draw attention and attention at a time when fertility was stable after the 2000s in Turkey, mothers and infant deaths were reduced, average life spans grew, and three-quarters of the population began living in cities. All over the world, the proportion of marriages under the age of 18 is 48 per cent, which is 42 per cent in Africa, 50 per cent in Yemen, Palestine. In our country, early marriage between 2006 and 2011 is 7.6% for women. In a study on 15-year-old and under-married marriages, early marriage was 4.2 per cent in 1998; at 1.1 per cent in 2013, it rose again in 2018, and reached 2 per cent. Marriage at a child's age is not a common phenomenon; it is a deep and important social injury to the past and future social problems, a major obstacle to the development of countries. The rate of marriage to the underage continues to decline in the world, but it continues in our country. Early marriage can go from depression to suicide. Early marriage is a process of thirst and sunlessness or suffering. Men are a little more fortunate than women; their marriage is delayed because of situations like military service. The prevalence of early marriages in our country is closely related to the socioeconomic family structure. I don't want to go into regional analysis, but in Turkey, the city where early marriages are at least built is Tucson, bravo to the Tunisians. Early marriage is produced and maintained as a culture. In the traditional family, the idea that girls are given as a trust in the family is carried out by their husband. Thus, it is believed that the marriage of young girls will be better in obedience to the husband and in harmony with the new home. The male's family prefers young brides to fit in with him. Early marriage feeds on early marriages, believing that the woman's economic burden will be passed on to someone else, that she will gain prestige with marriage. Besides, early marriages encourage children around. Children's marriages are often more common in a relative's marriage. The price of the title is a cause of boasting among the children, such as the 100,000 lira headgear, and I am a person of 100,000 liras. Money for the title is 14 per cent in the city and 24 per cent in the rural area; the smaller the age, the less likely it is to marry with the price of the title. In a child's marriage, girls are used as slaves. Childhood marriages are another form of human rights violation, and sexual abuse, especially in girls, is the most common example. The biggest age difference between men and women is in girls who were married at an early age. Girls who get married at this age have no duty outside the house. She has no identity other than the role of assistant mother-in-law. Since he was expelled from school, he was also unable to communicate with his friends. Domestic violence, family abuse, loss of parents, dissension in the family, lack of love, lack of love in the child's needs, and the hope of getting out of this system of things is even more encouraging. You'll stay at home with the children. If you get older, no one will take you. Such concepts, such as the public's point of view, cause early marriages. As our chairman-in-chief, Mr. Coral Akşener said, the future is possible with the rise of a happy, rich, powerful Turkish woman. It has been revealed that women at the highest level of prosperity in the 2006 Family Construction Research have been married three years later than women at the lowest welfare level. As of 2013, 22 percent of girls whose income is less than $400 are getting married under 18 years of age. Marriage is more of an economic adjustment than a personal choice, it's about getting money into the family. Early marriages stand before us as a major obstacle to the development of health and society in reducing poverty in society's development, in promoting education, in ensuring gender equality. The rest is women's violence, women's murder. The problem is that once we've come this far, the measures taken by the state are only palliative. We can't solve health problems by building too many hospitals, we can't solve justice problems by building too many courthouses, we can't prevent early marriages by building too many women's shelters. Education is vital in preventing a child's marriage. Father send me to school, and girls are very appropriate projects. With these projects, both children and girls have reached mental and physical maturity. The 4+4+4 system disrupts the children's education. With this level of training, our children are out of the range of education. The system must be re-examined in this way. We can sum up some of the consequences of child-to-child marriage: More marital problems and divorces are caused by the fact that early pregnancies are too much, because they do not have enough knowledge to protect themselves from pregnancy. Childhood marriage is a violation of human rights, a violation of child's rights, a violation of women's rights. Childhood, puberty, and personal freedoms are ignored. A child's marriage causes social problems; education and dropping out of school prevent the child's economic freedom. Unemployment, dependency and poverty are greater, exposed to domestic and external violence, increasing the frequency of separation and divorce. Exposures of physical, sexual, spiritual, social and economic violence are increasing. There is a lack of social and emotional support, stays closed in the family, unable to seek child care for the responsible. Single parents and children are growing, social organisations are unable to extend their help, and the fate of the children of these families is similar to their mothers. They lack role models, they have no role models in their lives. Mothers and children who are unable to exercise their rights and opportunities become more numerous. Gender inequality, the woman's violence, develops mental problems leading to suicide. According to a 2008 study by the Turkish Institute for Population and Health Studies, nine per cent of motherhood has been identified in the rural area and 5% in the urban area. Education is more common in low-level women. Adölesan pregnancy is only 2% at the lowest level of prosperity with 8% and 11% at the highest level of prosperity. Adölesan pregnancy, frequent gestation, and children's dreams increase and increase sexually transmitted diseases. The biggest cause of death in girls between the ages of 15 and 19 is pregnancy-related deaths. Pregnancies under the age of 15, the risk of death is five times higher than in their 20s. It's a high probability of a low and dead birth. Death in the womb, anemia, low birth, preeclampsia, C-sections are more frequent in these, birth canal injuries are greater, mother mortality is greater. When you're under 18 and the baby dies in the first year, it's 60% more, so we kill the mother and then we kill the baby with an early marriage. Their economic contribution to society and family is lower, so they can't cope with poverty. Those who have early children have more babies. In those who are married between 10 and 17 years of age, suicidal thoughts are far greater than those of their peers who are not married and those who are already married. 29 percent of them are developing feelings of suicide in marriage, and 20 percent of them are committing suicide. Many of these problems arise short, medium, and long-term. So many years go by, and some problems come from early marriage, but it's forgotten, and it can't be realized. Childhood marriage requires many social and technical solutions, but the future budget for corruption and poverty is far from answering them. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] The elders of society must be exemplary. While the facts of medicine are clear, it is unfortunate that a person with the title of professor has not punished the television company while giving birth to a 12-17-year-old in a television interview. The RTÜK should be involved and carrying out its responsibility in the way that society's interests require instead of following the literature with political prejudices. When it comes to marriage at a child's age, the elders of society should not set a bad example, and they should never have such a marriage. It's not what the mayor should do, it's not what the mayor should do, it's not what the governor or the governor should do... no one should go to such a marriage and not have to have this marriage, especially the executives should be very careful. Again, it's unfortunate that a man with professor titri at the beginning of his name would associate a child's marriage with a zealot. Using religion is one of the most common arguments in the last 20 years. I'm sure they're going somewhere else, not to the medical examiner. A political party leader's view of the age of 14, 15 and 16 as sexual maturity is a separate freak. What do they call their relatives' marriages when they're about the same age as I said up there? We need to empathize from time to time and identify ourselves with them, think about our relatives, think about our children. This has got to get in the way of the government, the community has to get in the way. These campaigns that directly affect social life are turning into an important social tool in blocking children's marriages. On 6 October 2021, Mr. Coral Akşener proposed Project Windgun, which would allow every 10 children who failed to attend a group meeting to sign up for school, and this project will be implemented when the HRP is in power. With this, our children and all adults will reach the level of health, education, equality, and employment that the country needs and desires. [[A round of applause from the good party lines]] Children are not an economic burden to society, they are an important structure of society and are the future of its society. Society must do everything in its power to take care of these children. All of our political parties should think about it, develop solution-making projects. In 2020, the marriage took place at the age of 13,000 children. If the government gave these kids $100 a month and paid these kids three years, the money they'd pay is only $46 million, $46 million. These children's lives will be drained, the lives of the children who will come after these children will be saved, and the future of the country will be saved. Mr. Secretary, I think this is a situation that should not be neglected. I'm hoping that the Ministry of Family and Social Services will make the point. The compassionate hand of the state must reach out to this kind of family. I wish our country the best of the 2022 budget. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0014par0172	Mr. Fahrettin Assess, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0015par0174	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, our deputies, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Labor budget, and I salute you all. As it is known, our workers in our country received union law in 1947 and our officers in 2001. It's been seventy-four years since the labor union law and twenty years since the officer's law. Our workers have the right to a collective contract, the right to a strike, and if they cannot compromise, they have the right to go to an independent arbitration board. Again, our workers have the right to do politics, but our officers have no right to do politics, no right to strike, and most importantly, if they don't agree on a collective contract, they don't have independent arbitration rights, because they apply to an independent arbitration board of addicts; after all, there's no healthy outcome, rights, justice from the side referee's game. How did this arrangement come about? In the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, our government changed the negotiating board, the regulatory board that officers went to, to the public officials' arbitration board, and handed over officers to the people he appointed, the people he had appointed. In the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, they saw the right to strike the officer. They've had a lot of political rights, but since they were founded, they've said.3Y....... since the day they were founded. What was one of the 3Y? The bans were lifted, but the bans on officers continue. Madam Secretary, this year you've made a collective agreement with officers and officers, you've received a lot of requests, but you've rejected most of it; no strike, no collective contract; no, no, no, no. The increase, the increases you've made... you said that if there's an inflation difference, we'll give it to you. And you said something very important, and you said: "We don't crush officers with inflation." I've said it over and over again from this stand: Don't tell this lie, you're crushing officers with inflation every year. Why are you crushing me? Let's face it, let's face it, not the inflation figures of the TÜİK, but... our officers, all of our officers, with no exception, 4 million officers pay taxes every year because of tax slices, and each year their losses are at least 2-3 per cent. And you're already giving 3 plus 3, plus, sir, you're giving the difference in inflation. No way, Mr. Minister, fix this, fix this, and we're not getting the officers crushed by inflation. When you say that, they're lying. Let's not say that anymore. We don't want to say that to the people who run our state, because we don't want to say that, we're not very enthusiastic. Madam Secretary, you know, the public officials are having trouble with the ILO. Why is he alive? We, Turkey, are constantly blacklisted in the ILO. Why are we being blacklisted? I mean, it's the arrangements for working life, but we're getting into the Application Commission. Why are we offended? When we look at it, for two reasons, the most important reason in working life is because of different problems, but the most important thing is political discrimination, union discrimination. Yes, public political discrimination is union discrimination. Mr. Secretary, you know the public very well, you know the working life; please, touch your hand here; please, get ahead of this public indecency, discrimination, especially union discrimination; we'll follow. Dear MPs, our Minister made a mistake, and in August, he made a mistake as soon as he arrived; he said: "Sir, the unions, which are under 1 percent members, are unions under the stairs." Well, Mr. Secretary, you're in charge of these unions, you publish their statistics; how do you teach the unions under the stairs? But you said that. Not enough, you said in the collective agreement that 200,000 members of these unions would not receive a $400 union bonus starting in January. I mean, you told them: "Resign from the Syndicates, or we won't give you the right. " Would a Minister of Labor take back a right? I mean, is that something that's been seen in the world? Can a Labour Minister call the unions that his own organization oversees, the unions that he publishes his stats, six unions? No, this needs to be fixed. Mr. Secretary, officers lose every year, lost in the last collective contract. However, you made a statement, saying that the increase in wages would be reconsidered. Here, the EC PARTY spokesman, Mr. Vice President, told the officers about a 30-35 percent cumulative raise. Apparently, you don't know each other. Then, the unions tried to fix it, sir, it's cumulative, it's two years old. We say, on behalf of all public employees: since you will receive taxes you call reevaluation in 2022 -- 36,2 -- from officers, workers, pensioners, all citizens -- you will have to give officers a 36.2% increase in 2022, and you have to give workers a 36.2% increase in public contracts; review collective contracts. The minimum wage must be well above that, the minimum pension in pensioners should be raised to minimum wage plus a raise in pensions less than 36 per cent. That's justice, that's justice, that's right, so you're going to be taxed, you're going to give it to the pensioner, officer, minimum wage, subcontractor, spoon, and then you're going to say justice.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0016par0181	With a teaspoon.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0015par0182	That's not fair. The esteemed MPs say 3600 additional indicators to the officer. And my brother, they're counting those, those, those groups....... why those groups? You have to arrange additional indicators for 4 million officers, and if you don't, it's not fair. We made an offer here. Justicefully, we offered the law here, from his servant to the branch manager, but without knowing the public, without knowing the structure of the public, you can't handle it if you give everyone a sense of 3600 additional indicators. Your arrangement tomorrow will disrupt the study peace; I warn you from here. There was one thing you had to do right, but the officers' additional payments are considered retirement. If you could do that, there would be no need for 3,600, no one would pursue 3600. We've done our homework, and I'll give you this, Mr. Secretary, although the unions have given it to you, but please consider this. Again, 4/B... ya, a freak like that, look at 4/B of 657. What kind of a 4/B teacher is a 4/B courthouse employee, a 4/B officer? No, but you insisted. Then, you put them on the staff in 2011, you took them out again, but you kept them under contract, you broke public peace. A penknifed contract, seven kinds of medical contract... what in God's name is this? You corrupted the public order so much that you made it impossible to get out of it, and then you tried to fix it. So we removed the 4/C. You said, you did it right. From here, Mr. Secretary, as you said, norm and standard unity in SGK. Wow, that's a nice thing to say. Sir, the Link-Kurk, the SEC, the Retirement Board will have a working, retired norm and standard union. When? The law has been passed since 2005. Where's norm and standard unity? So there's a norm and standard union between pensioners? Is there a norm and standard union between the officers and the workers? Are there any of the people who work for them? Where's norm and standard unity? It's all stories. Then why are we breaking these laws if we're not going to enforce them, and why are we taking them out? But if his pensioner's miserable today, his officer's miserable, if we still have subcontractors, if these aren't fixed, we need to fix them. Mr. Secretary, you're making an officer rise in office, you're making a supervisor of three times, four times, five times, you're making an expert, you're making a branch manager. You say to four of them: "You have failed, you have failed, you have written, you have spoken, you have failed, you have failed, you have failed, you have tested, you have written, you have spoken, What kind of job is this? When you're promoting, okay, do it in writing, but I'll understand, but why verbally? Why don't you do it in writing when you're throwing out the head of the department, when you're throwing out the vice president, when you're throwing out the general manager, when the district manager is throwing out the governor, why don't you do it in writing? You'll need your followers there, but the poor officer will be a civil servant, the chief of staff; the test, the verbal, I'll choose my own man from among them. So keep your duty to Allah, and set things right. We'll get a public official, as if we're getting a reporter for TRT, a saint, a verbal, a verbal, and a verbal. Why? Brother, do it twice in writing, measure, measure, measure, but no, we'll do it verbally. Why? We'll take our man, we'll take our ally. You haven't had enough, you've had enough in 19 years, you've had enough of the government, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, you've had enough of it, (APPLAUSE) Work Minister, I have hope for you, so I'm telling you this, I promise you, I hope you do, and you won't do it again. (Applause from the Party and CHP rows) Remove the Supporting Services Class now, brother, make the General Administration Service Class, pass it on, it's all over anyway, fix it. Let's bring peace to work in public. But most importantly, 900,000 subcontractors. Yeah, well, if you got the contractor into this country, there wasn't enough subcontractors before 2002.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0017par0185	Keep your voice down.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0015par0186	You're right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0018par0187	Modern slavery!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0015par0188	Mr. President, you've made the subcontractor so hard that you've exploited, raised 900,000, then you've put in the cast, you've had three years, there's still 90 thousand people left, Mr. Secretary, so let's give them a round of applause. (Applause from party lines) Look, we're applauding. Yes, my former Chief of Police says, lower your voice. He's right, I'm a little short, let me talk to him a little bit. I've told you all the additional payments. What haven't I told you? Now, sir, Minister...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0019par0191	Tell me about the things we've done. Tell me about the hospitals.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0015par0192	Now, one day I'll tell you what you've done, and one day I'll tell you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0019par0193	What our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has done...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0020par0194	It's so cruel.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0021par0195	Mr. Yasar Kharpınar, you can't be heard from the television you're talking about, so you're passing the ball to Mr. Yosh.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0022par0196	Yes, thank you very much. Now, our pensioners have a situation where they retire before 2000, after 2000. Gee, we made his pension for 1,500 lira. You played here, one, we didn't play. Yeah, back home... I've said that in the Commission, Mr. Minister, come on, if you have the heart, I've been a civil servant, I have no economic business, except for the officer's salary. Let's all take 1,500 lira, let's make a living for a month. Come on, guys. You'll get it up to minimum wage for him. You're gonna fix the pensioner's condition, bro, what do we do to our old people? We respect them, we honor them better, we put them on the edge of our house, it's tradition, it's faith, it's faith. (PEOPLE CHEERING) But where is it? Where? Where's my brother? Where's Nas? Where? How am I looking? Where is she?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0023par0200	Calm down!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0022par0201	If you mess with me, we'll keep looking for how, you calm down, I'm calm, you'll look for how.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0023par0202	Are you interested in interest? You want interest?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0022par0203	Your life is interest, you are the system of interest lobbying. Don't ask me, people know. [[A round of applause from the Good Party and CHP]] Mr. Secretary, why don't you give us the rights to those who are old enough to retire? We suggested it, we gave it to you in the budget, you didn't see it, we say it, we say it, we don't. But those of you who grow old in this retirement will be on your feet, so don't worry, keep it up, it'll get on your feet. The minimum wage, yes, should be at least $4,000, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0024par0206	It wouldn't save 4 grand, not even 6.500.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0022par0207	4,000 lira TÜRK-İSK demand, right demand, must be 4,000 liras, but you have to sit back every six months because it's impossible to keep up with this economic speed, this inflation rate, this increase, you have to increase it by 20 percent a month in the 6th month, so... If you reduce the burden of the employer in our country today's off-the-book employment is 40 per cent, will the apocalypse arise? Is it going to be a disaster if you remove the off-the-books? If you haven't been able to study in this, Mr. Secretary, let's prepare a lesson in economics, working life, and how to run it with Mr. Master. Rest assured, let Turkey rest in peace, and let us sleep in peace. Let's stop politics, I swear.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0025par0209	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0022par0210	But follow the measure, for the measure that we bring is conscience, morality, decency, faith, right, law, justice. (PARTI and CHP rows) Who count 84 million as equal, who don't discriminate, who embrace everyone, who sees everyone as a trust of God. So that discrimination you've been making in 19 years, the other way around, we're gonna scratch all of this. We'll embrace every servant of God, and he who doesn't embraces it doesn't exist. But all your life you've thought about discrimination, you've always separated, you've always differentiated.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0026par0211	That's not true.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0022par0212	Enough is enough, Turkey has suffered too much, we've suffered too much from you; so we say for our unity, for our resurrection, for our future: there is no other Turkey, there is no other Turkish nation; let's walk together. Yours truly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0027par0215	Congressmans, we will now begin the talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. First word, Mr. Sefer Aycan. Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0028par0219	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. We're talking about the Health Department budget. Of course, Covid-19, unfortunately continues with new attacks, new mutations, and it seems to continue. Of course, it's important that the virus is very effective, that the virus can cause disease by sitting directly in the lungs and causing death, but we also have personal errors here, especially a problem with vaccine rejecters and responses to vaccines, and, depending on that, the problems with social immunity are a major negative factor. Other than that, looseness and insensitivity in mask use are also effective, causing the virus to travel and travel, causing new diseases and new deaths. We can't see ahead of ourselves, we don't know how long we're going to live with the virus, but it's been two years, so we have to get used to living together or do the other services that we need to do. Here, of course, the virus still exists, but there are other health issues. Now, the virus itself is a direct cause of disease and death, while on the other hand, it affects disease and disrupts the functioning of health care. I don't want to be affected, especially by cancers. Cancers are the 2nd most lethal group in our society. In Turkey, 20 per cent of the deaths are caused by cancer, causing the deaths of around 90% a year. For that, we need to continue the cancer scans intensively. I'm inviting all our citizens to do cancer scans, and we're not supposed to miss it -- and our cancer citizens have to continue tracking and monitoring -- and if it doesn't work out, we're dealing with cancer spreads and terminal periods, and we've had to lose a lot of people that way. The other thing is heart disease. Heart and vascular disease is the most important health issue in our country, responsible for 35 percent of all deaths, and so we're losing 150,000 people from heart disease and vascular disease. For him, preventing them is very, very important, we need to be very concerned about primary protection, and other than that, we need to continue the hypertension control program, especially the diabetes control program, very strongly. In addition, we need to keep up with the work on fat control and the work on tobacco control, and we need to keep up with it rapidly and intensively. We care deeply about the established Chronic Disease Tracking System, a very important matter indeed. The success of the Chronic Disease Tracking System is vital. So, of course, we need to make the family medicine system stronger. Of course, it's not only the police department, it's the lab services. In particular, we need to strengthen chronic disease monitoring and imaging infrastructure. Another suggestion regarding family medicine should not be applied to family physicians because they are indifferent to patients, because they do not follow them. On the contrary, one must be sensitive and must have his followers followed. Another suggestion regarding family medicine is that the number of registered individuals be reduced from 4,000 to 3,000 to more effective family medicine services. In this way, we also recommend reducing the family physician's population to 3,000, without disrupting its economic status, without disrupting its funding, to make sure that family physicians follow patients more effectively and improve the quality of their services. Of course, there are other new dangers in our lives. Maybe the problem with air pollution is more important than viruses. Air pollution, global warming, and climate change can perhaps paint a picture of disaster that will bring about the end of mankind. That's why we need to keep up the good work. In air pollution areas, air pollution is the cause of 25 percent of the disease itself. If there is pollution and global warming and climate change depending on it, it will lead to both direct diseases and indirectly increased diseases. So together, we need to fight air pollution, at least control air pollution, and keep it from increasing. There's a new approach to health care, an approach called the Health Effect Evaluation, that we need to put into our lives now. So, the Health Effect Evaluation is to calculate what the impact of every job we do on health is, if necessary, to take precautions to control it. The Health Effect Evaluation must be placed in the life of all individuals and all institutions, organizations. We call it health first. I think that if we really believe in health first, we need to observe, question, and take precautions on the effects of what we do on human health, but then we really care about health, and then we will be able to overcome and control health problems. Our patient dating system is running through the Central Doctor's Appointment System. We care about the Central Doctor's Appointment System, but there are people here, especially those who can't get into the Central Doctor's Appointment System, people who can't get in from the countryside or who can't get in and make an appointment, so we need to make an arrangement. It's absolutely necessary to make sure that every person applying gets the clinic service that day. If that's necessary, we need to make sure that those who came in that day, those who came to the hospital, will be examined by increased polyclinic times or increased number of clinics. Especially if people from the countryside don't come to the hospital and get a physical. Of course, the Central Doctor's Appointment System is dental health in another area where the appointment system is applied; oral, dental health. Mouth, dental, of course, is a different trait. In public hospitals, you have to attempt with dental care, but the initiative isn't enough, the time isn't enough; the process is getting longer and needs to come back again and again. In particular, dentistry can be arranged. The dental family medicine system can be applied; this is a suggestion for mouth, dental care. The other one, I think, is that we can make it easier for a citizen to get oral, dental care, especially by making a deal with the Social Security Agency, the practice, the dentists, or private dental clinics, by making a public fee. Of course, I need to talk to you about the medical staff. Health care is indeed a difficult service; education is difficult, occupational practice is very, very difficult, and, contrary to what is thought, health workers' salaries are not that high. When it's added to the additional payment here, it looks like the numbers are going up, but not everyone's getting the additional payment. The additional payment is not always paid regularly, everywhere and every month. Therefore, medical staff's salaries do not go as requested or there are differences. We, the National Movement Party, expect a monthly improvement of all health personnel. Without discrimination among the health staff, without contracting, staffing, if possible, by putting all of their contractors on staff or equating them with their rights, we want all health personnel to be improved; we want additional payment to be reflected in the salary and this to be reflected in retirement, and we recommend that this arrangement be covered by all health personnel. Of course, there is a lot of activity in health care staff; resignations and breakups are too much, which increases the current burden of health care. Covid has already increased his load, with the increased burden, as well as the lack of staff in health care are causing serious problems. For him, we believe that additional purchases must be made, new appointment of health care personnel; we have enough staff waiting to be appointed, and we expect this appointment to be made. Mr. President and Mr. Health Minister had given good news, and now everyone is waiting for the announcement and the date, and everyone is waiting for it, and we expect it to be announced as soon as possible. Of course, we believe it is necessary for medical personnel to make arrangements that include dentists, pharmacists, nurses, and health officials. An important issue for medical personnel is assistant training, expertise. Medical education consists of two components. One: medical education lasts six years, and he has four or five years of expertise. Expert training is a very difficult, very difficult job -- but doctors or doctors who have children -- it's a situation that doesn't fit with life, it's not human. Sometimes 48 hours of overtime takes 36 hours of hospital time. That's why it's got to be encouraged, to support it. And of course, it's part of the training, maybe it's necessary, but somehow I think it's necessary to support them, motivate them, encourage them. I want to end up here with a problem in front of Turkey. Now, preferences have changed in expertise training, Turkey's preferences for expertise have changed. Young people don't choose majors, such as general surgery, obstetrics, neurosurgery, vascular surgery, which we think is much more important because of market conditions, and I think that's actually the most important problem for our country in the future.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0029par0235	Complete your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0028par0236	I'm finishing. It has to be encouraged, encouraged in some way. Yes, the terms are too heavy, the seizures are too heavy, the malpracts are too far away from them, but I think it's necessary to encourage, encourage, and with these thoughts, I wish that the Health Ministry budget would be good for our nation, for our state. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0030par0240	Dear Ali Muhittin Stoneborn. Mr. Stoneborn, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0031par0243	Mr. President, the great Turkish nation following us at the beginning of their screens, asking God's mercy to all of our health workers who have died in service to our nation, especially in the period of the plague before I begin, and to their devoted families, my nation, my party, and my own. Dear lawmakers, cancer is an important public health problem both in the world and in our country, but it is the second most fatal disease. One of the six people in the world and one of the five in our country have lost their lives because of cancer. Turkey's Cancer Statistics 2020 Report reported that the number of new diagnostic cancers increased year-on-year in 2020 was 233,000 in our country and the loss of life due to cancer was 126,000. Frequentness, survival, mortality, and emerging cancer types differ between countries, and socioeconomic development is an important determinant. These differences also show themselves among different educational and income groups in the same country. As the population of our country continues to grow, so does the number of cancer patients who receive new annual diagnosis. In 2018, 18 million people were estimated to have cancer, while by 2040, this figure was estimated to reach about 30 million. It is also remarkable that in our country, one of the four pre-75 people is diagnosed with cancer. As the National Movement Party, what we have stated in our election statement is that the Turkish Cancer Institute within the TUSEB must now increase its efficiency, increase its service capacity, be immediately activated by drafting strategic action plan for 2022. We are closely monitoring our ministry's work on this issue. Congressmans, it is the right of every cancer patient to get the right treatment in today's conditions and to have this treatment done by experts on the subject. In this context, the primary goal of approaching a cancer patient is to get the right treatment, but it is important to set aside time for patients and relatives during treatment, to be given close attention, to provide psychological support and trust. Therefore, the most effective physicians from cancer treatment are medical oncologists. Medical oncology specializes in four years of internal illness and is a three-year upper secondary residency major in cancer, where only internal disease specialists can take a test in our country; the diagnosis of cancer, the treatment of cancer with specific drugs, and the care of cancer patients. For this reason, we care and recommend that medical oncologists be allowed to work and be appointed as co-authors in public hospitals of the Ministry of Health, under the Law 4924. If this happens in public hospitals in our Ministry of Health, medical oncologists can work in the same hospital for many years, transitions to university hospitals and private hospitals decrease, search for work abroad and prevent brain migration, while medical oncologists serve in the same hospital for many years, the quality of treatment for cancer increases. Dear lawmakers, the nationalisation moves in many sectors and industries over the past five years have attracted public attention. We've been keeping a close eye on all these developments. When we review Turkey's health sector with a review, the demand for drugs and medical equipment is under pressure in social security spending and current deficits due to the increasing and aging population's average life expectancy, health care and access to medicine, increasing prosperity and awareness factors. With the global pandemic we're living in, the importance of the local pharmaceutical industry has become even more important. Turkey has a powerful pharmaceutical industry with over a century of history. Despite all obstacles brought to our attention, Turkey's Localisation Project for Turkey, which is part of its 11th Development Plan, will be vital for the future of the Turkish nation. As part of co-authorized import transfers from nationalization move, the Drug's Localisation Project will have to be accelerated, with high accessibility and public finances being monitored, territorialization of drugs with high priority and market value should be the key priority of Turkey's Medicine and Medicine Agency in 2022. Talks with companies who have announced that they will be localized in 2022, with new products and production sales in the list of drugs that will be paid the additional 4/A, which may include 10 per cent and more in the second phase of localisation group. Moving to a production structure that can produce high-density products, produce products and services to global markets, which can cover a larger portion of the need for domestic medicine and medical medicines, the use of domestic breakthrough production capacity, the infrastructure of legislation aimed at licensing and strengthening the staff of the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medicine should first take place in the Health Ministry's 2022th and budget. Precious lawmakers should be based on effective review, monitoring, monitoring, contributing to sustainable state budget management of medicines and treatments provided in our country as part of non-adjusted non-intrigue medicine. Of the 396 pencils provided from abroad under Article 1 of Law 7151, published in the Official Journal of December 5, 2018, the largest part of the drug is the treatment for orphan medicines and enzyme replacements. According to Article 1, the license for these drugs is required within three years of applying for a permit by the company with the license or the distributor in Turkey, starting with the list of foreign drugs, and from the date of the application, at the latest, within two years. It is allowed to be provided abroad for five years with a current exchange rate from the day the drugs entered the list of foreign drugs. Under Article 7151, we are closely monitoring the intensive work of the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices for unlicensed drug supply with the current exchange rate, which poses a risk due to the rise in foreign currency rates under the 1st Amendment, and we also support the immediate removal of necessary measures. Members of parliament, the value of biotech drugs in Turkey in the prescription drug market is about 25 per cent in 2020. In 2022, it is estimated that biological products will receive a large portion of the top 100 medicines. The sector's expectation of acquisition guaranteed agreements for biotechnological and bio-similar drugs for localized companies should be drawn up by monitoring public finances and drawing up the necessary roadmaps. Positive discrimination of local raw materials and pharmaceutical producers is important for the achievement of 2023 strategic biotechnology goals and continuity of private sector investments. The localisation project, which requires capital investment, can be successfully carried out as a result of reducing the financial burden on pharmaceutical companies. If biotechnology is produced at competitive costs in Turkey, it will be easier for patients to access biotechnology if local and national production is increased. We believe the public drug budget will contribute to positive developments, such as more efficient use and a reduction in foreign trade deficit related to drug imports. Members of parliament, I remember with respect, gratitude and mercy in the year of the death of the Turkish nation's father, poet, writer, and fallen Hüseyin Nihal Horseless. Hussain Nihal Nihal Nihal is a representative of the teacher, and a great believer in the Turkish union, as the late Victor Erdem. With these thoughts and feelings, I'd like to remember our late horseless ancestor by his own lines. Let him know that I am in what part of this jihaha / I am at the height of the moon of a country / I am in every wanter / I am in my race's legend of honor / Everyone lives in a longing... So I'm just around the /Altais and the Mountain of God (Applause from MHP rows). (Applause from another verse)
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0032par0253	Mr. Vitaly Ark. Here you go, Mr. Arkad.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0033par0256	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish the budget of 2022 to the best of our country, our nation, and our state. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. I salute the Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who ran from the front to the front, saw that infectious diseases are more dangerous than swords and bullets. He witnessed diseases such as typhoid, typhoid, typhoid, cholera, plague, smallpox, malaria, tuberculosis, and leprosy killing Mehmetçik on the frontline. So, right after the republic was founded, it was important to fight epidemics, and we've been fighting epidemics for about a hundred years. Many scientists, such as Professor Tefik Sahın, Refik Saydam, Sadi River, Türkan Saylan, have been the basis for the fight against infectious diseases in Turkey and have been the basis of our health infrastructure. I cherish them from here. Dear lawmakers, we are the children of a nation that has fought the Liberation War and have mobilized. In World War I, the descendants of the medical school, who killed all of their students in the first war, today are martyred in the battle of coronavirus, without seeing their families, without sleep, without sleeping. There is a feature in this nation's genetics that when it comes to country, nation, and state, we fight with death at the end. The struggle of our doctors and health workers is an example. Moreover, we are one of the first countries in the world to take measures against Covid-19, with the zeal of our Minister of Health, Mr. Fahrettin Big Bey. The science board was formed before the plague came to our country. Our physicians and our medical army have been working selflessly for two years. The World Health Organization admires our struggle. On this occasion, I'd like to thank our Minister of Health, our doctors, our health workers, and everyone who's worked hard, and I'd like to thank you. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Dear MPs, the antidote of Covid-19, and the only solution is the indisputable vaccine. Our country is working with great sacrifice in the inoculation process. We're definitely the best countries in immunization. Unfortunately, despite all the effort and dedication, 265 million people in the world have fallen ill and lost 5.5 million people. In our home, we have nine million people sick, 78,000 people dead. I wish God's mercy to all our citizens who have lost their lives, my condolences to their families. I want our citizens to believe in science. Anti-occessing is standing in the way of human health. Come, let us be together today as we were yesterday in this struggle. In addition, we cannot neglect balanced diet and exercise to be healthy. Everyone has to be a family doctor, and so do sports and dietists. Dear MPs, the local vaccine in our country, Turkovac, is now ready. Hopefully, we'll be inoculating our citizens very soon. I want to give you an important example here. In an interview with Jonas Salk, who found the polio vaccine, in 1955, when he was told, "Who is the patent for this vaccine?" he replied: "He belongs to humanity, there is no patent." Can you patent the sun? The purpose of these vaccines is to help people, to eliminate death. I would like to say here that Dr. Salk's opinion, Dr. Salk's opinion, should be an example to the world today. So we'll open our own vaccine to the use of all the countries of the world, help every country in need with our vaccine, and give the vaccine to the countries in need, hopefully. Dear lawmakers, every citizen of ours has taken responsibility for the coronavirus, and everyone has been involved in the fight in some way. In this process, we built a pandemic hospital in two separate neighborhoods in Istanbul, two months -- this is a miracle -- that's an example of the world. In 15 days, we've made the ventilator, the ventilator we've been importing for years, by our own means. There's also a device called High Flower, which is absolutely essential in Covid-19, which we need, which we've done in 15 days of our own means, and we're using it ourselves to give it to countries that need it. On behalf of the Turkish nation, I want to thank everyone who's been through this. Turkey has come a long way in health care. We make 88 percent of the drugs we use with local means. We're exporting medical supplies, medicines, medical equipment, and pure materials to about 159 countries around the world, and we're donating them to countries that need them. In medicine, success is not only with medical services. You have to keep up with innovations, science, science and technology. Today, surgery in the medical sector is now done through robotic surgery. Turkish medicine follows these developments and continues to progress. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk a little bit about production, employment. Local production and development continue in every area in our homeland. Our industrialists and business people continue to produce in organised industrial areas for seven days and 24 hours, despite all the difficulties, despite the harsh conditions of two years, because Turkey has to produce. Either we exist by producing, or we perish by consuming. Let Turkey not produce, we produce and sell cheap to Turks. There is no understanding anymore. Turkey is not the market for Europe or for the United States, we produce and export ourselves. Dear MPs, Europe has been static and aged, but Turkey is dynamic, strong and determined. Turkish goods receive great interest in Europe and in many parts of the world. By the end of this year, our exports will hopefully be worth about 250 billion dollars. 51% of these figures are for Europe, 49 percent for other continents. In addition to the fact that our country, which has the most beautiful geography in the world, has risen to first places in the tourism sector, we are certainly one of the best in the world in health tourism. It turns out that during the Coronavirus epidemic, we can live in a suit, but we can't live without food. Food is a national issue. The countries that don't produce their own food can never be independent. If we're agriculturally dependent on the outside, we can't get rid of poverty, famine, and imports. We are one of the rarest plants in the world. Our land is the most agrarian land on earth. We export $18 billion a year in agricultural products. Despite hardship and adversity, we are ranked seventh in the world and third in Europe. The entrepreneurs, the businessmen, the investors, the farmers, the producers, and everyone who wants our country to grow are patriots, heroes. We're going to work our way up to the hole, working our way up to the sweat. The wrong done to my hometown of Turkish aviation industry will no longer repeat its origins. We will not stop investors following in the footsteps of Nuri Killigil, the father of the local and national arms industry. I want to thank them all on behalf of the great Turkish nation. We will support the investments of the defense industry. Today, 80 per cent of the equipment and weapons used by the heroic Mehmet Çikik, and security forces, are domestic and national production. These weapons exploded on the heads of terrorist organizations in Syria and Iraq, Armenian gangs in Karabağ, and imperialism in Libya. Dear MPs, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a powerful and great state that has made its own decision, with the hope of the 400 million Turkish world and the hope of 2 billion Islamic worlds, the heart of Seljuclu, the conscience of the Ottoman Empire and the mind of the republic. From the Balkans, from the Adriatic Sea to the Great Wall of China, from the north of Cameroon to the north of the Black Sea, our second homeland is Turkey. Turkey is now the superpower of the region. Turkey no longer needs Europe, Europe needs us. Turkish businessmen are producing jobs all over the world, creating jobs. We will never give up domestic production, labor-smelling territory of Anatolian, technology, industry and investments because production is the mother of all things; production is abundance, wealth; creation is the independence of existence; production is the pride of this nation, its sovereignty. The heritage of his past, the land we have borrowed from his future, is our trust, and the National Movement Party is the custodian of this trust. We're in the Turkish nation's dough, yeast, and everything else. As the leader of the Turkish nationalists, Dr. State Gardenian Bey, says, whatever we want is for the Turkish nation. I say, I wish the budget to be good again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0034par0273	Mr. Sadir Durmaz. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0035par0276	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change. On this occasion, I respectfully salute the Veteran Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have basically prepared their own end when man began to position himself as an all-powerful and in need of nothing under the influence of various modern currents. The process, which began with the Industrial Revolution, led to the incredible speed and diversity of technology, the Western-based idea that drove the holy out of life, leading to the environment. This has begun to cause great damage to the environment as it facilitates the life of mankind. As a result of the changing and limitless consumption, greenhouse gases have disrupted the order of nature, upset the balance. Sadly, the future of mankind has again been threatened by a climate crisis triggered by human hands. This threat made it impossible to survive in some areas of life, while related migrations also revealed climate refugees. Condensations on certain areas have negatively affected the transport capacity of those areas, and cities are unable to meet the basic needs of the population. Our country is in the climate belt that will suffer the most from the global climate crisis, and the natural effects of this situation have been clearly seen in the past two or three years. On the one hand, our country's lungs, our oxygen tanks, our forests are burning, and on the other side, floods from rainstorms have caused our nation to suffer deeply. By the way, I especially congratulate our Ministry staff in person for the great efforts and struggle of our ministry, especially in the face of recent natural disasters. In the same way, he congratulates our health workers for their selfless efforts to save the lives of our citizens, their efforts to save the lives of our citizens, who appeared in Wuhan, China, in December 2019, under the influence of the world. May my Lord not cause our country any more misfortunes for our nation. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, according to the United Nations report, the world's population was estimated to exceed 10 billion in 2050. The growing population will produce new demands, and the supply presentation to meet demands will naturally increase the release of harmful gases. In the last century, carbon emissions in the atmosphere have increased by 42 percent. Scientists have highlighted that in the past 150 years the temperature has risen by 1.5 degrees, that the rise of 2 degrees will lead to more disasters, that if it reaches 4 degrees -- God forbid -- mankind could be in danger of existence. With climate change, the natural and historical fabric of the world rapidly deteriorated, while water and food shortages even began to appear. According to U.N. data, 3 billion people will suffer from water shortages starting in 2025. Apparently, water and food-based crises will become one of the biggest challenges of diplomacy. About a third of the world's total energy consumption is consumed in buildings, causing 24 per cent of the total CO2 released to the Earth's atmosphere. The energy consumed for heating, cooling, air conditioning and lighting also increases economic costs as it triggers environmental problems. In this sense, applications from the Zero Energy Building System, which has become increasingly accessible, based on energy savings in all areas of life, should be among our goals, as well as among the short and middle-term goals of many countries. At this point, where energy efficiency is centered, the Paris Climate Agreement is an emergency act. Turkey is on the side of the Paris Climate Agreement, and it is under the discretion of the Grand Assembly. Although we have double standardized access to the Green Climate Fund, we are fully supportive of the target of zero carbon emissions in 2053, not for today, but for tomorrow. While fighting climate change is a difficult corner, renewable energy sources are the only option, rather than the alternative. While the world's production styles and technologies are changing, Turkey may be our last chance to be on a new threshold, to take advantage of the wind and the sun, to ensure zero carbon emissions while doing so, to save our future, perhaps our country and humanity. Turkey is rich in these areas, as our president-in-chief, Mr. State Bahçeli, stated at the group meeting of our party on November 2, 2011. With the right planning, the right strategy, and the right investments, our energy dependency will weaken, and our national income will rise significantly later on. Planning a friendly and peaceful future with the environment is now a vital obligation not only for Turkey, but for all countries, for all communities and nations. In terms of future future generations, Turkish industry's production styles and techniques need to experience a full change and transformation, based on the environment's precision, zero emissions, and a full-fledged benefit from God's natural provisions. Our country is our home. We must love our country and our world as well as our lives. We, the National Movement Party, support and value each step to protect our future. When Turkey reaches zero carbon emissions in 2053, it will play a leading role in the fight against climate change, and it will also strengthen the Turkish economy by covering the gap in energy, which is the biggest burden in financial balance. This is a necessity for the stability of both the environment and the financial structure. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Republic of Turkey, founded under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, are moving from national defence to industry, health, agriculture, and education from environmental and urbanism to the goal of its complex civilizations. The Cumhur Alliance, which is fundamentally and methodically bound to this great goal, is working very hard to sign projects that will move our country forward in time. In this context, the Zero Waste Project, launched in 2017, has received great appreciation and appreciation. In a sense, a transformational and cyclical economy is being operated to prevent waste by zero waste, creating a new contribution pen to national income. This contributes directly to employment by providing for the creation and expansion of new business branches. According to our ministry's data, a total of 7.2 million tons of waste has been recovered from any available waste in 2020 as part of the Zero Waste Project so far. In this way, the return rate of 13 per cent has been increased to 22.4 per cent. In addition to this, after all the pay-per-viewed bag apps we've all contributed to, the development of 354,000 tons of plastic waste has been blocked, saving $2.44 billion. Again, 14.640 tonnes of greenhouse gas were also blocked. At first, I congratulate the world's appreciation for the Zero Waste Project, which received a prize from the United Nations, and the ideas and executives of other Ministry projects based on environmental sensitivity. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers must also deal with the threats of fault lines while our country deals with many problems in and out of existence. 66 per cent of our country's land is located in the first and second-degree earthquake belt. The number of earthquakes we've been exposed to in the last century is 56. So we're dealing with earthquakes every two years at a rate of six. At this point, urban transformation studies are of great importance. It is known to all scientists that there will be a major earthquake in Marmara by 2030, and that's how our ministry and municipalities must assess urban transformations and be mobilised. About 6.7 million dwellings in Turkey are in unhealthy condition, and this stock must immediately be renovated by urban transformation and be able to withstand earthquakes. The earthquake is no joke, the ministry, municipalities and citizens have separate jobs in the work started with the urban transformation slogan all over Turkey. It's only possible to overcome this threat with great coordination. Otherwise, God forbid, it's not an earthquake, it's a disaster of recklessness. The future of Turkish cities must be saved, as well as the future of the Turkish nation's lives, in its place, in voluntary and rapid transformation, which monitors regional architecture. Mr. President, the precious lawmakers we just talked about, the faster and more effective solution to problems caused by intensive migrations from rural cities has brought up smart city practices today. Smart city applications create efficiency-based technology, as well as its ability to detect problems in the city, to define them correctly, and to provide immediate intervention. Therefore, for the environment to be at peace with the environment, for the healthier urban life, our local governments must surely take advantage of technology's resources, to think about smart city practices. In this regard, our Ministry must coordinate awareness with our local governments and spread intelligent city practices to a wider extent. Mr. President, we, the esteemed MPs, as the National Movement Party, shall keep the people alive so that the state may live. We take it upon ourselves in the context of nation and state relations. We say environmentalism is nationalism, and we act on the perception that taking care of the environment is taking care of the future of the people. Again, we love the creation because of the Creator. We look at the human, nature, and the other creature from this front. While sticking to the ancient hopes, by implementing the possibilities, conditions, and procedures of time, he declares that we are with him in the spirit of the Cumhur Alliance, with every sustainable plan and work to protect, protect, protect, and protect man, nature, and the creature, and I wish the budget to be blessed and fortunate. I salute the Founder and Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0036par0291	Mr. Sefer Aycan... Here you go, Mr. Aycan.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0037par0294	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group on behalf of the Ministry of Family and Social Services. I salute you. As the National Movement Party, we put a lot of emphasis on the family, and we will continue to support any support for the family. We need to strengthen our family structure and support our family structure, so as the National Movement Party, we care deeply about pre-wedding education. Everyone must be educated together, if possible, or even married, but there is a fact that divorces are increasing in our society. Unfortunately, divorces are a serious problem. It's not just the divorce, it's the problems of the divorce that affect our lives. Of course, we certainly recommend family counseling before the divorce, and we think we should try to save marriages, family. But if the decision has been made and both parties intend to divorce, we also think that cases should end quickly, as well, between individuals and families, because it's becoming a social problem. Of course, divorce is a problem on its own, but it's causing new problems. One of these causes much different problems, especially in families with children. Here, as the National Movement Party, our proposal is that custody be given to parents as partners. Custody is the right of parents; the law should actually be regulated according to this. Such a change in civil law should be made into joint custody. That's what the Bill of Rights says about it, and we actually agreed to that. And I think we need to change that in our civil law because every divorced person has rights and obligations. A person may be divorced, but motherhood is a law that goes on for children, and we believe in it, and we think it should be supported. The other thing is, it's a matter of poverty support. This is a bleeding wound in society. In particular, poor people suffer from alimony and are also victims of child support. Especially as the National Movement Party, we don't want any of our women to be victims. For economic reasons, a woman shouldn't be a victim. We can never agree to the victimization of a married, divorced woman, and we feel that our government should take care of it and support it in order not to allow this woman to resort to unwanted behavior or actions. Our children are very important, they must be protected. Of course, the best place for each child is with his mother's father, his family, and in this family, we need to increase the support for the child's care. We need to increase counseling and financial support, but if it's broken or child abuse or neglect, the government owns it. We must not allow any of our children to be abused or neglected. There shouldn't be any children on the street, we have to let any of our children work. The children on the street must be saved. The other thing about children is children's marriages. Children should never be allowed to marry. When forced, we also feel that these girls should be taken especially to state security and protection. The disabled are part of our lives. We, the National Movement Party, are in favor of removing obstacles to all disabled persons and allowing all disabled persons to live as equal citizens without being dependent on anyone, and I think the best thing to do for the disabled is to provide education and employment for them. For that, yes, our government has made quotas, but especially the private sector doesn't meet those quotas. We think it's necessary to put pressure on this private sector, or it's causing them to quit their job by using mobbing the people they're buying. It also needs to be audited, evaluated, and to warn and direct the private sector on disability employment. In public, quotas can also be increased, and we are in favor of the disabled living without being dependent on anyone as a business owner. We support services for home care for the disabled. We find all the benefits of social government to be justified, and we're willing to increase them further. Of course, however, there are disabled people at home who are 100% disabled, physically disabled, or psychologically disabled, and disabled care centres are also a very important issue. We feel it is necessary to support the disabled care centers, to encourage these areas, and to support them in a way that is not psychologically disabled or physically disabled in any way on the street. Of course, old-age care is a big deal. In particular, we prefer that he lives at home with his own family, with his social circles, but if this can't be done, if it can't be taken care of, we can create structures like day-old nursing homes, day-old nursing homes, night-old nursing homes, because the facts of life are a separate problem. In other words, we also feel that the elderly and the elderly, who are very advanced, must be admitted to the disabled care centre. Of course, it concerns the whole community. It's part of our life for him-- disability, old age. The social services centers of our Ministry of Family Services are in charge of this. We're all in favor of providing these services with one hand, by directing them, effectively. The number of social services centres can be increased. For example, a social service centre can be established for every 100,000 populations, and people in that area, families, and families can be monitored and supported.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0038par0305	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0037par0306	The status of staff at social services can be increased and the staff quality can be increased further. Social worker, psychologist, sociologist, home care technicians, we need to bring in more intensive services by increasing the number of staff here. The state needs to be with the Turkish family at all times. I'd like to say a few words about the rights of the staff at the Ministry of the Family. We're not supposed to hire employees, we're concerned about putting them on the staff. There's also a department staff working for a tuition fee, and we're recommending that they be put on staff and the differences between staff be removed. With all his staff, I wish him well in his budget to serve the family ministry and the Turkish family. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0039par0310	Dear Desire Virtue... Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0040par0313	Thank you, Mr. President, dear lawmakers. I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services. I salute the General Assembly. If you wish, take over everything in the world, don't forget your race, your yesterday! Dear lawmakers, our national spiritual values that give societies the ability to become a nation are our sources of existence. As a Turkish nation, we find our national values in our nationals, our national anthem, our national anthem, our sovereignty, our religious faith, our tradition and customs, our recent struggles in our recent history, in our state and nation elders. Our national values represent the national consciousness of the great Turkish nation. National consciousness means people. The nation must form a state. Therefore, national values are essential to a nation. Spiritual values are another of the most important elements that hold one nation together, that make the state strong. Every society has its own identity, as each of us has its own. The identities of the nations are their spiritual values. These values connect individuals of the community, creating a common language among them. The Turkish nation has maintained its nationality throughout history, and has been able to continue to be a unique nation as a result of its loyalty to spiritual values. We too bear the right pride of this success from our ancestors. Sadly, though, the crowded urban life has weakened the culture of co-existence, and the results of hundreds of years have sadly reduced the existence of such values. In urban culture, society has increasingly turned to individual life, forgetting the culture of sharing with other people. The developing technology has given us a lot, but unfortunately, it has taken a lot from us, and it has caused our values to wear out. In particular, it is important for our children to train and train under such values because it is important for them to distance themselves from religious and moral values, embrace behaviors that do not conform to our customs and customs, and fall into the trap of harmful currents and habits. Therefore, it is our duty as parents, educators and communities to raise our young people who are the guarantee of our future in accordance with national, spiritual, and cultural values. Let us not forget that centuries of Turkish nation's survival in the face of countless threats and challenges, never under yokes, never under yokes, each of them building 16 major states, ruling the millions, is the result of our human sensitivity and sensitivity to the national unity. The Turkish people's determination in this matter has held our nation in the leadership and pioneer position for centuries in the history scene. Dear lawmakers, as the Muslim nation of Turkey, we are a free nation who have never left their homes to their enemies, who have considered it an honor to die for it, who has not brought down its flag from the heavens, who have declared its culture to the world, whose life is based on the most solid foundations, and who have not abandoned its religious savings. As our ancestors did, we must maintain our national and spiritual values, embrace the beauty we bring from history, adapt it to our lives, and then pass it on to our children. Let us not forget that the future will be shaped in the hands of our children. In this regard, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of National Education must co-ordinate an action plan and create an educational programme for strengthening social peace, national, spiritual values. Our municipalities, our trustees and our governors must build up curriculas to strengthen our national and spiritual values, strengthen our Turkish family structure, and be put into a basic lesson program. The first four articles of our constitution should be given to our children in the form of a road map. The name of our state is the Republic of Turkey. Turkey is an indivisible whole with its state, country and nation. His language is Turkish. The flag is the star of the moon. The national anthem is the Istliklal March. All of these sentences should be given to our children in schools as a first education. Dear lawmakers, physical and psychological violence has become an increasingly important social problem today. In a world order where even our animals, men, women, children, are targeted by violence, we see particularly fatal consequences in our country, unfortunately. There is no forgiveness for treason against the country and the nation; there is no forgiveness for the abuse of children and women; there is no forgiveness for the torture of animals; there is no forgiveness for the brutal killings. The legal regulations must be completed, the shortcomings in the application must be reviewed, and perhaps increased in criminal action in order to increase the deterrent of punishments. Among other things, regular education should be the most important in these matters. We must not only expect the fight from the government, but we must all do our part in the social and individual sense. We must take precautions so that our boys are not violent in the future, and our daughters are not victims of violence. To explain the importance of family organization, we need to train our young ones before marriage. We must certainly teach parents how to raise their children. In short, we must have one hand on our conscience, one hand on the stone to keep society at peace. As our leader, Mr. State Gardener, stresses, we see that our citizens are having spiritual problems as well as their material and spiritual difficulties, and we are aware of the problems that are being received. We believe that there is a need for a social contract, a law on mental health, where rights, boundaries, and powers are clearly and clearly determined; a study must be carried out. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we work for the peace of our beloved Turkish nation, and we will continue to work. Since our Labour Minister is here, I especially know that our work has been done on the 3600 additional indicators of our heroic Turkish police, I wish to inform you that I wish to see what progress is being taken in this matter... and that it will be done shortly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0041par0325	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0040par0326	The Ministry of Family and Social Services also has sociologists, teachers, psychologists, social workers, nurses, physical therapists, office clerks and health workers with the approval of the Ministry to provide for staff needs, professional employees who work 12 months and 39 hours a week with full-time credentials. These vocational employees are not entitled to their rights or status in addition to their studies. Although they do the same work as the staff, it would be helpful to make an arrangement for our brothers who receive almost minimum wage wages and have no social security. I, above all, wish that all of our ministries, our Ministry of Health, our Ministry of Labor, our Ministry of Family and Social Services, and our Ministry of Environmental Urbanism, have a good budget. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0042par0330	Mr. Nevin Stonedchay... Here you go, Mr. Rocky.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0043par0333	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Occupational Competence Agency. I hereby salute the Holy Assembly and the holy Turkish nation who follow us at the beginning of its screens. Millions have experienced health problems, loss of life, unemployment, social and economic difficulties in an epidemic that has been on the agenda of the world for a long time. Economic activity has also been severely reduced, so unemployment has increased. In order to mitigate these negative effects, short work grants, financial benefits, tax cuts and delays have partially relieved our citizens. One of the main elements of fighting unemployment today is the ability to grow and enter an employment centre. In order to develop this ability, the entrepreneur's every effort based on production must be supported. Investments should be regarded not only as economical but also as value for human labor. It should be intended to create a working life where the focus is human, the quality of labor, the quality of wage efficiency, the right to be established, where the conditions for job safety are kept at the highest level. The necessary provisions must be carried out in order to increase trade union or collective contract of employment. As the National Movement Party, we are concerned about the immediate implementation of regulations such as improving the welfare of our citizens in minimum wage policy, providing public transportation support for minimum-payers, allowing the minimum wage to be exempted from taxes. Members of lawmakers, we are prioritizing the merits of all businesses, and we believe it would be correct to revisit the contractual, paid and temporary employee policy in public institutions and institutions. Some provisions are essential, not only for our employees but also for our pensioners to improve their quality of life. In addition to the inequality of pensions, their contribution to health care is making life difficult for our pensioners. Therefore, we would like for pensioners to be relieved of their wage imbalance and their contribution to health. It is necessary to manage a process where the participation of disabled citizens in working life is facilitated, the public quota of disabled people is increased, and work and vocational counselling for disabled persons is increased. It would also be meaningful and of course useful to support the public integration programme with grant programmes in the private sector. Registered employment needs to be encouraged, and facilitating work should be done for sectors where registered employment is difficult. Occupational schools should be more functional, and the need for inter-persons on the agenda in many sectors must be met immediately. The Employment and Social Security Ministry has a new perspective on human resources management and working life, which has made it a mission to operate and develop Turkey's Qualification System for a qualified labour force. I'd like to stress that the Employment Agency has carried out an important task for employees to gain valid knowledge, skills, and competencies in their working life. In this sense, implementing vocational qualifications in many professions will also improve quality in business. In the fight against the epidemic, the members of parliament have been from countries around the world that have come forward with a predictive, planned, science-based approach and effective mobility. Turkey is also one of the number of countries in social security, but its sustainability is important. In the fight against the Coronavirus epidemic, all businesses have experienced economic difficulties without a division of sectors. In health-care sectors, the quality of quality is needed to improve and regulate these areas so that it does not fail to serve a citizen. From day one, the 27,884 pharmacy pharmacists in our country were introduced as step one healthcare servers, has shown all kinds of sacrifices during the transformation of health. In the period of the epidemic, the public has also made a superhuman effort, such as all health workers, but today the pharmacists expect an immediate adjustment to the price bill in order to ensure that the services they offer are sustainable due to increased business costs. It is also our wish that healing for doctors and dentists on the agenda of our great House includes all health workers, such as pharmacists, nurses, health technicians and veterinarians. In particular, work on domesticization should be given in order to reduce external dependence on medicine and medical equipment, incentives to reduce the number of drugs provided abroad should be increased in Turkey. It has also been a proud development that our local Covid-19 inactive vaccine, Turkovac, will be widely used. Dear lawmakers, some people take place in memory as an example of a belief. They're like the North Star, guiding. Ethics is the foundation of the nation's structure, nothing happens without it. The idea pole of Turkish nationalism is the light horizon of historical consciousness, the Hussain Nihal Horseless reminiscing with mercy and gratitude in the 46th year of his death; with this feeling and thought, I salute the great Turkish nation and the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0044par0343	Mr. Ayþe Sibel Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0045par0346	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss the budgets of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and Occupational Supplies in the meeting of the Grand Assembly of the Turkish Assembly of Turkey in 2020 with the Central Management Budget Act of 2022. On this occasion, I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, watching us on their screens. In addition to a balanced protection of employee and employer's rights, working life is also required to be discussed within the framework of policies taking into account the protection of the work. Education and employment planning should be done, central education should be strengthened, a social welfare system that protects and develops employment, and union rights should be made in accordance with modern norms. As it is known around the world, budget deficits, debt, unemployment, inflation have increased dramatically due to the epidemic. Today, the world is discussing whether inflation will be temporary or permanent. In the world, especially energy and raw materials prices have increased abnormally, and food prices have risen to the highest levels in recent years. Because of the cost of life, our small and fixed-income citizens, especially pensioners and employees, are also affected. Of course, the situation must be considered while employees and pensioners receive an increase in salary and minimum wage. In addition, improvements should be made in pensions, some participation in health services should not be taken from pensioners. The number of days and years of service should not be paid general health insurance premiums from those who are unemployed, who are waiting for the age requirement. The study of the 3600 additional indicators, which were announced in 2022, must be addressed with all the dimensions of the additional indicator system, as well as with disparities. The need remains to implement a staff regime that will ensure public pay justice, solve status and employment chaos, take the lead in progress and increase in employment. Starting with the process of hiring public employees, it is important to address the legal and financial status and pension arrangements as a whole, system integrity and activity as they work. We find it positive that our disabled, ex-con citizens are supported by our Ministry to start their business by making a profession, and we believe it will continue to increase. As the National Movement Party, I would like to point out that we consider the net minimum wage over the hunger line, no taxes on minimum wage, and the minimum wage should be given transportation support in major cities. It supports your efforts to ensure that the minimum wage will not be crushed by inflation, protect the workers' rights, and I believe this process will end in a way that pleases our citizens. Precious lawmakers are an important institution for improving the quality of the services and the quality of the work that we receive at every stage of our daily life, which defines and recognizes the qualifications with the principle of learning and its partners, internationally guaranteed quality, is established to establish and operate the national competency system. Modern-day globalisation, innovations in information and communication technology, technical and vocational education are an important part of the education process in all countries. Occupational education and education are of great importance because it prepares the individual for life and provides the necessary skills in a democratic society. It also develops vocational education, artistry, practical experience, and practical problem solving. In some cases, improving quality and improving standards will also increase efficiency, as will adding value to the country's economy. Education provided by the institution for various sectors is expected to lead to the creation of qualified human resources by securing integration with employment. The importance of professional competence in our country, unfortunately, has been understood too late. Education and standards are not only required to become a procedure, details or a precondition for completion. The institution is expected to achieve its goal with the necessary political support. The vocational competence institution works intensively in charge of all transactions, such as public staff training, staffing, hiring, financial and social rights and transfers. The institution, which is critical at the point of the quality of the service of public employees and the public employment of our citizens, must resolve the problems of the performance system in which the appointment, transport and promotions are established, not working with the employee, who knows and who doesn't know, will be distinguished. He says it is the responsibility of the Grand Assembly to make legal arrangements for the healthy establishment of the merit and performance system; I wish that the budget for the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Employment Agency be good for our country and our nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit01spe0046par0355	Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0046par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. Yes, on behalf of the groups, we continue the talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Mr. Habip is missing, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0047par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, I respectfully salute all health workers who struggle with their lives to protect human health, I bow before their struggle. I also bless all our colleagues who have lost their lives and who have lost their lives serving health care. I also honor those who lost their lives in prisons once again. Dear MPs, we're discussing the budget of health, but it's better to point out that the ministers don't do the budgets, the ministers don't do the budgets; they make the budgets one man, they build the palace, AKP President Erdogan does. Look, look, an offer of law came in, and there was a seven-point violation of the physician's additional payments to retirement, and since it was positive, we voted positive as all parties, and it was accepted. Two days later, Mr. Minister and AKP President Erdogan gave an image in front of the cameras. Mr. Minister said to the reporters there: "There is an arrangement concerning the rights of the physicians to pay and pensions. " But AKP President Erdoğan did not believe his Minister, didn't trust his own Minister; he insisted on saying to the press there: "What did he say, what did he say? What did he say? What did he say? What did he say? He said? What did he say? Because he said? Because he doesn't trust his ministers because I am the only man; I am the one who determines everything." For him, and for him, this health budget was made by one man, AKP President Erdogan. Look, the AKP President's insistence on wrong policies in health, his insistence on the Change in Health Programme today has caused the patient to be perceived as a customer, and health is perceived as a commercial meta, and money is being transferred to medicine and medical supplies lobbys every day and tenders are being passed on to major construction companies. Look, the result is that health is getting worse every day. Today more than 200,000 people get cancer each year in Turkey. The 2nd place of death is 25 percent cancer, and the 3rd place is KOAH. You're looking at this budget, there's no measure of any of this, there's no budget. Just what? AKP President Erdogan insists on wrong policies, he still insists on increasing health violence, because there is still anger in his lower self towards physicians and medics, the precious MPs. When you looked at the health budget, there was a 6.7 per cent rate. AKP President Erdogan said: "Europe can't find food, America can't find food." But you're looking at the same countries, the United States, 17.1 per cent divided health; Germany 11.7 per cent; France 11.1 -2019 data; 2021 data higher -- and let me make it clear, Mr. Minister, this budget will not be enough for you to offer health care. There won't be any surgeries in the middle of the year, and there won't be any drugs at the same time, because this budget melts as the ice melts next to the stove. More than that, when the health budget came to the Plan and Budget Commission, we calculated that the currency was worth $22 billion in guaranteed costs; it was worth 22 billion in foreign currency guarantees and service purchases given to city hospitals who served as tornadoes; we just calculated that it exceeded 30 billion euros. Frankly, let's be clear: the health budget melts like ice next to the stove, and you will be unable to offer health care in the middle of the year, Mr. Secretary, so let's make it clear. We're in a pandemic process, but we've all seen with our eyes that the AKP government has officially transformed this pandemic into a blessing, an opportunity. See, in the provinces, there are territorial councils, which are officially anti-opposition boards, and you have to turn your name into an anti-exposure board. Again, a Science Council was established, and the spokesman for this Science Council, AKP President Erdoğan, says that no one knows science better than I do, because he makes all the statements. All decisions made by the Science Board are first shared with the court, then the press. And let me tell you, unfortunately, the only place the Science Board has the power to do so is the prisons, and they can't afford anywhere else. Look, people lose their lives in prison, they lose their health, they don't have access to health, but the Science Board still says: "You will be subject to 14 days of health detention on your return." Again, you're looking, the same Science Board has been preventing people from having an open view for two years; it does, but it does not know that health, body and spiritual goodness; health is not to serve the wrong policies of the prisons that have been converted into killing centers. See, today, what kind of headline did the rag newspaper, the trumpet of power: another terrorist who was fed in prison die! This is where AKP power and AKP President Erdogan tried to transform the prisons, where he tried to kill people; in that respect, we specifically state that the Turkish prisons have officially turned into death houses. Both the Science Council and the ATK have a share in this, as did AKP President Erdogan. On the Day when We will question him, of course, about his account. Look, we said, this is how people bury their dead, while the AKP's president has arranged funerals for every person he sees close to him with something appropriate. He's running a pandemic process of his own.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0048par0021	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0047par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the People's Democratic Party, of course, will have to answer for them when the day comes, but we specifically want to point out that the budget for health care should be low, at least 10%, and an additional budget for pandemics should be raised. Again, let's say in particular: The Change in Health Programme should have been abandoned, protective health care should have been given priority, we should have brought therapeutic health care to the background a little bit more because we needed to save people from the psychology of disease, increase customers. Again, it is important to state in particular that health should be democratized and socialized. One man should not have sat in the palace and said, "I have put so much money into health." In that sense, when we come as HDPs, we will democratize health, socialize health, and offer health as a right in the native language, as a service. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0049par0028	Mr. Semra Nice, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0050par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to begin with a tribute to all the workers who died in the pandemic process. I've been promised a budget for the Health Department of Borders and Coasts. As it is known, as a result of the shared wars of global forces, one of the biggest rights violations of displaced immigrants, asylum seekers, refugees have been exposed to is health rights violations. Since the necessary state support is not offered, immigrants are among the most vulnerable in health due to poverty, poor housing and feeding conditions. There are about 5.5 million refugees and immigrants in Turkey, but only those registered under temporary protection and those living in areas envisioned by the Finnish Immigration Administration can benefit from general health insurance. Unregistered immigrants only receive partial benefits from emergency and protective care services, and they are experiencing serious problems. Some hospitals inform law enforcement if undocumented immigrants apply for an emergency. Hence, many immigrants and asylum seekers avoid going to health centers in fear of deportation. Many academic surveys and research have also said that immigrants cannot examine the doctor they want, that they cannot provide free access to treatment, that they cannot obtain enough information from hospitals for this, that they have been exposed to exclusive behavior and treatment in treatments, and that their sensitivity is not considered at a cultural and religious point of faith. In particular, they stated that they were unable to convey their complaints in hospitals because their translation services were inadequate and that they were often misdiagnosed and led to the wrong parts. I'll tell you what a refugee patient said in a study. Sometimes we can't tell the doctors about our problems, we have a problem with translation. Last time a doctor was supposed to give me flu medicine, he gave me birth control pills because of the wrong translation. This is exactly why we are expressing that health care in the native language is a human right and multilingual health care must be implemented. In order to address the problems that immigrants have experienced in their health rights, they need to be removed from the law enforcement of undocumented and unregistered persons in hospitals; access to treatment and drugs should be granted free of charge; immigrants under temporary protection should be simplified in terms of social, cultural properties in their countries; especially in treatment processes, faith and cultural properties should be drawn to them; very complex and bureaucratic practices should be simplified in terms of health care and if it is necessary for immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers to take advantage of health care. Yes, valuable lawmakers, women with asylum seekers have much more health problems; lack of access to hygiene products actually affects women's health, and it's hard to get access to pads. Again, they say they are unable to provide adequate services in fertility health, prenatal and postpartum care, sexually transmitted diseases, and again, low, unwanted and unplanned pregnancy, birth complications. Since neither information has been given on which hospital the pregnant immigrants are going to go to for birth, birth rates are increasing, and this poses serious risks in the life of mothers and babies. However, crimes, such as violence and harassment at the borders, destroy both body integrity and psychological health. We still remember the state officials who were caught at the border this year and raped an Iranian refugee woman who was sent to the Van Repatriation Center. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, no one expects this power to be blessed. From the fund created under the Financial Aid Programme for Refugees to Turkey so far, where have 4.3 billion euros been spent and where will you spend the 3m euros that will come next year? Is there a share of this fund that's reserved for immigration health? Under the law, everyone has the right to use protective health care and medical care under the conditions specified in national and legal practices. Governments must be defined by the activities that guarantee this right, and they must implement it. • This is a clause in the European Union's Charter of Basic Rights, because health is a universal right. Health can only happen if people can get by, feed, shelter, dress, and live on a hygienic condition.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0051par0038	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0050par0039	The sad state of Alexander's Rice Training and Quarantine Facility, where you spend millions of liras and leave them to rot during a time when immigrants lie on the streets without space, actually shows the point of health. Yeah, this center was built 36 years ago to be used in the epidemic process, but now it's like this. It is unacceptable for immigrants to be deprived of their health rights and not to improve policies in this regard, for people to be left to die and disease. And we don't accept these applications, and I want to say that we don't accept that budget. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0051par0042	Mr. Gülıştan Sword Coachyiğit, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0052par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, have made a pledge to the Ministry of Health of Medicine and Medicine of Turkey, and I hereby salute and cherish all our peoples who are watching us on the screen. Now, we've been talking a lot here, on these screens, on these platforms, and on this Health Transformation Program, which began in the years of the AKP, and we've spoken a lot about the destruction of this Change Programme in Health, and in this health, we know very well how transformation corrupts health parameters, but unfortunately, by not explaining data to us for a very long time, we also need to express that this Health Transformation Program is either ignoring the destruction that it has caused in health, or in some way, hiding it from the eyes. Now, one of the most fundamental topics of transformation in health is that we can sum up health as a public basic right, to leave the market at the mercy of the market, to make the patient a customer, a hospital a trading facility, and to actually gain health rights. What does this basic perspective preclude? In fact, it prioritizes not protective health care, but therapeutic health care, which means that it actually separates all its resources and priorities. In this sense, we have increased our resources to protective health care by 103 percent in the Central Management Budget of 2022, which the Ministry of Health has expressed in its budget presentation, to 38 billion, 729m euros, compared to the previous year. The confession or expression, in some way, shows that protective health care has not been prioritized so far, dear friends. Now, what did the transformation in this health also bring? Health care has once become subject to a fee, health care in the native language has never been on AKP's agenda, and we have also started to have serious problems not only in access to health but also in access to other drugs. Now, for years, the AKP has been propagandad like, "Now you want it, you can buy medicine at the pharmacy." We've finished the queues at the hospitals. Right, you've finished the lines at the hospital, but now the tails have been moved through the MHRS system, and people are trying to make an appointment at home through the MHRS system. Not only that, but in pharmacies, everyone can go to any pharmacy they want. (It's true, but on one condition, if he has money in his pocket, if he can pay from his pocket, and another condition, if there's medicine in the pharmacy. Because there's a serious drug problem in the pharmacies in the current situation, and the patients can't find drugs in the pharmacy, and the pharmacy can't find drugs in the pharmacy. Why? Because the drug is actually fixed at 4.75 TL, but the value of the euro is around 14-15. So it's normal that there's no real difference because we're an outside-addicted country in medicine, and we can also say that the increasing price of courtship has to affect the supply of drugs, or it has to affect the supply of drugs. Now, another issue, dear friends, is that access to medicine is not only a problem, but a serious problem with access to local medicine. Why? Because we're also addicted to imported intermediaries or raw materials in domestic pharmaceutical production, and in that sense, there's actually a major drug crisis. According to the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals, there is a problem with access to 657 drugs, and if this is not resolved, we must express that we are facing a major drug crisis. Normally, the supply shortage in the drug begins in November of each year -- such as November-December -- has moved to September this year, even late August, and unfortunately, no measures have been taken. Instead, we see the Ministry, unfortunately -- the general mind of the AKP government -- resorting to a method that one can actually call a mental eclipse, such as raiding warehouses and controlling pharmacies. Yes, there are over 28,000 pharmacies in this country, but the Health Department has noticed that there are problems with the stockpile of 261 pharmacies or there are incompatibility. So in front of 28,000 pharmacies, there's a supply of 261 pharmacies that are stockpileds. To present and manipulate is to throw the ball at the top, not to deal with the problem, but to ignore the problem, dear friends. Another issue is that health care, which is already being paid for by contributions, participation, faces another problem. Again, on September 8th, the Ministry issued a notice on the amendment to the Social Security Institution's Health Implementation Declaration in the Official Gazette, which ruled that 52 drugs be removed from the scope of the SGK. So now 52 drugs have been removed from payment. In the last two years, 1,308 drugs have either been removed or disabled. So, Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, and unfortunately, there's a serious problem with the health-access problem that you're saying so much about, and it's health-deprived, and unfortunately, it's been left to market conditions. Well, what's in the drugs that you take out of range is muscle relaxant creams, painkillers, anti-inflammatory sprays, and, most importantly, mouth and throat sprays that were used during the pandemic period, and painkiller gels that babies use during teething. So now, when the baby's tooth comes out, the mothers have to go and pay for those gels, because your Ministry doesn't approve of them being bought for free. Another thing is, now, at the end of the day, we see that this matter of access to medicine in health is also happening in the spending material. One of our constituents called the other day and said: "Valim, I went to the hospital, they examined my child, and they said to me, "There was no serum in the hospital, so I took my child, and I came home. Think about it. There's not even the most common waste material in hospitals in this country, there's no serum, but there's a health ministry that's blocking all this. Dear friends, another matter is with SMA and ALS patients. In 2018, me and a lot of our fellow lawmakers offered the SMA, and we said, "Let's do a pre-marital SMA scan and let the SGK pay for all types of SMA.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0053par0056	Complete your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0052par0057	And after all this time, there's been no adjustment. The last time, Mr. Secretary, they said they were going to arrange this in the budget talks, but over the past four years, thousands of SMA's children were born, thousands of SMA's children had trouble accessing the drug. Again, we offered the law for the HPV vaccine, and we said: "Give girls HPV vaccines in their childhood, put it on the national vaccine calendar, so that you can protect our children from cervix cancer. Mr. Ministry has the answer here, it says, "Here's what we have, if that board sees fit. I mean, your board isn't democratic once; secondly, it's not participant; thirdly, we don't know what kind of people he's acting with. You said, "We're doing a scan, and we're detecting and treating cervix cancer early. " We say, "Infect the children so they don't get cervix cancer, so they don't get cervix cancer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0054par0061	Mr. Sait Dede, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0055par0063	Congressmans, I have made a promise on the Ministry of Health budget, which has been in place for 60 years. The Covid-19 pandemia continues worldwide. We thought the health share in the general budget of 2022 would amount to at least 10 percent, but unfortunately, it remained at 6.6 per cent. And a large portion of this health-determinated budget has been relocated to city hospitals, as usual. Look, we see that $22.5 billion has been earmarked for this budget to city hospitals, and that 14 billion 91,904,000 dollars has been determined as rent prices, and the remaining $7 billion 473 million has been earmarked for services provided by hospitals. Now Germany is jealous of us. Instead, you can say that the United States is jealous of us. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Because the share paid for the rent is much higher than the share of the US's Covid-19 vaccine studies. The result of the Health Transformation Programme, which turns patients into customers and health workers into slaves, is much higher than the share of protective health care for subsidiaries. Health, labour and occupational organisations have often spoken, but no title in protective health care has been created concerning Covid-19. Members of the Parliaments, the Health Transformation Programme in Turkey, has been launched and closed down with the health clinics inoperable and the geographical information system has been systematically weakened, and has been destroyed by the accessibility, containment, co-authorisation and continuity system, the basic features of first-level health care services. The Ministry of Health has forgotten that the health care presentation is a basic service involving 83 million. Health institutions are institutions that are trying to keep people alive, making efforts to improve the quality of life. These institutions are worth living directly, the people's own institutions. The people of Turkey do not deserve such a Ranta-based healthcare system. There is an urgent need for a health care system to protect citizens, protect health workers, not a health care system to make citizens sick or get sick and have a side income. Look, just the other day, the health workers committed the act of quitting jobs in many provinces. Again, they performed a white walk for a qualified health care service. Why do you keep stuffing your ears into these sounds? Why don't you take precautions when you don't take their suggestions, their warnings, the Turkish Medical Association, the Health Workers' Unions, the politicians, the doctors, the people who are targeting them on television screens? Does your ministry view these institutions as enemies? In the year 2020 alone, there was violence in the health of nearly 12,000 Code Whites. Don't you see that this is the result of all these approaches? Doctors, nurses, all other health workers are in a difficult position because of heavy working conditions, long shifts, short employment, violence in health, corrosion of their rights, low monthly income under the poverty limit. Because every job that health workers do is critical, we say health is a team's job. However, with the final salary arrangement, it has come to light that you did not view it as a team effort with its application. The AKP President insists on asking in front of all the press: "Did you discuss the money stamps?" In fact, even when you're making two sentences about your own Ministry, we feel sorry for you because you have to answer. The AKP's only concern is the money, and that's why he put you in charge of this Ministry. You run it like a company, you end up looking at profit and loss. But on behalf of all health workers, we say as a preeminent party that, in order to ensure that the peace of work is not broken, this law must be organized to include all health workers. Recently, political custody pressure has imposed segregation policies by executives. Even if management members of a union that doesn't think like themselves, has different political views, dislikes their ethnic origins, or even appoints them, and is a member of an opposition to power, the employees have different practices. Only those who belong to a government close to the government can make it possible for a qualified health care service, which is the result of collective labour, even if they are to be appointed to positions such as administrators, service managers, head nurse, chefs, and even for a very simple appointment.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0056par0069	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0055par0070	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, finally, I'd like to talk about the importance of health care in the native language. We also discussed this in the Commission phase, and you, of course, know very well as a physician, how important it is to receive health care in a primary language as essential as health care, how important it is to have health personnel explain in their own language the problems that exist. So, are you going to have an initiative, do you have a study for it? What obstacle lies in preventing health care from being provided in Kurdish? What is this, not Kurdish, Kurdish hostility? You're a physician, and I come to you as a citizen, and I say to you, what do you do, what do you do, what do you do? If this is not Kurdish hostility, give us an explanation here. If you make an arrangement about it, if you take a step forward, we think other institutions, particularly the Parliament, will take a step towards it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0057par0074	Mr. Imam stoner, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0058par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, dear people who have been watching the General Assembly, I salute you all. I made a commitment to the Health Department budget. I'm already telling you that the budget for 2022 is not the budget of this people, especially because it's a budget that the Kurds ignore, which the Kurdish people reject. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Mr. Minister, we all know there are 25 million Kurds in Turkey, but since Kurds can't get their education in their native language, they can't get their medical education in their native language.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0059par0080	Before 2002, you couldn't speak Kurdish; I couldn't speak Kurdish; I was Kurd, for your information.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0058par0081	How nice...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0059par0082	You can speak Kurdish anywhere else.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0060par0083	Congressman, please. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0061par0085	Listen, I'm telling you, then you'll understand the benefits of education.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0062par0086	You want everyone to forget their language like you!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0061par0087	Kurdish children did not receive medical training because they could not study their native language. We all know that the Kurds who go to the hospital for health problems face difficulties at the first step. We understand these problems better than the conversation with the doctor. I'll try to make that clear. Minister, as far as I know -- if I'm not mistaken -- your family is a Kurdish family, immigrated to Central Anatolia, so I know, if I'm wrong, you'll correct me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0063par0088	There's a racist speech that separates people from their ethnicity! You're being racist. Whose family, which ethnicity, should we be busy with?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0061par0089	I don't know if they speak Kurdish in the family. If the family is not assimilated, it must be spoken in Kurdish.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0064par0090	What do you mean assimilated? Why is it assimilated?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0061par0091	Yeah, when he can't use his native language, he's assimilated.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0065par0092	Racist, racist!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0061par0093	We all know that a patient has difficulty expressing himself in a language other than his native language.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0065par0094	How many mother languages are there in Turkey?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0066par0095	Mr. Akçay, you'd better listen!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0065par0096	I'm answering because I'm listening.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0067par0097	Especially if this patient has not had a good education in the other language, he will have trouble explaining his own problem. For example, let the Kurd MPs and doctors think about what I'm going to say, and I'll say a few words now:
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0068par0099	Congressman, please speak Turkish.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0069par0100	Mr. President, this is becoming a reality.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0070par0101	Man, do we have to listen to this shit every day?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0071par0102	Don't read it, don't read it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0072par0103	.....
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0073par0105	Congressman, look, we don't understand, we don't know the contents.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0072par0106	Mr. Secretary understands that.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0074par0107	We don't know, Mr. President, maybe the PKK is propaganda.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0072par0108	These are languages, languages.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0075par0109	It doesn't bother anyone when they talk in Arabic, it doesn't bother them when they speak in English; when they say in Kurdish, everyone says... I don't understand this job, it's human rights!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0072par0110	Believe me, if that doctor is not educated in Kurdish, even the Kurdish doctor has difficulty understanding these terms, but these are the words used by the sick Kurds -- everyone knows that -- if the doctor doesn't have training, he can't express himself that way, he can't get healthy treatment because he can't. This is the education of the government's health policy. And this government's health policy has an investment dimension. I can also say that the government's investment policies over the past 100 years and the Ministry of Health policy are identical. Here's the thing: the city hospitals he's been bragging about most in recent years -- which we don't approve of -- there are 13 hospitals that are operating now, only one in Elazığ, one in one of our least populated provinces, all 12 in the west, and we see how unhealthy that spread. Other than that, we all see that Covid-19 is very common in Kurdish geography.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0076par0114	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0072par0115	The reason is: One is not to tell them the need for it in their native language, and the second is that patients who are due to distrust of this power cannot be given this vaccine. Yes, some of the things have been implemented in Kurdish provinces, in the east: before the Şark invasion courts were implemented there; before the unsolved unsolved unsolved cases of the 1990s were implemented in Kurdish provinces; 4,000 villages have been evacuated there before; these are the kind of practices that are still going on in the 1990s -- we all know that as long as we don't solve the Kurdish issue in my time -- we've actually gotten close to the solutions in these last years -- we all know that these kinds of problems will continue.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0076par0118	Mr. Stonesman, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0072par0119	This Parliament, this government, this opposition, can discuss the Kurdish problem under the House's roof, solve it, develop solutions. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0076par0122	Mr. Oya Ersoy, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0077par0124	Mr. President, I respectfully salute all citizens of this country who say, "We want to live in the squares." Yes, when these budget talks began, the dollar was $9.26, and now it's up to 14. One third of the budget was destroyed before their meeting in Parliament was completed. So, what are we talking about right now? The AKP President is making a statement, saying: "I will never allow understanding to make the rich richer, the poor poor poor poorer. " Who makes the rich richer, the poor poor poorer? The palace itself, the AKP power. We know that every reactionary uses religion when the power is stuck, and takes refuge in religion. Yes, the AKP's President, again, quoted you yesterday in the Bacara Surah, said, "We will try to reduce you with a little fear and hunger from goods, lives and products." Yeah, I'm asking, who's the one that's freaking out? Who's starving? Who is it that diminishes wealth, lives, and fruits? It's power again. Don't make fun of the public mind. I'm asking from here who gets the dollar raise. Yes, is it good for the workers you have forced to live on minimum wage, for the pensioner who's trying to make a living on a quarter of a salary, for the YIT people who have earned their pensions so you don't pay them; the shopkeeper who can't do business because the people's buy is down; the farmer who has reached 201 billion in debt, who's foreclosed on his tractor and can't sow with the increase in mazota and fertilizer? Is it for unemployed people who have reached 7.9 million, or 30 percent for women who are unemployed? And you make the people needy knowingly and willingly. Your goal is to lower the value of Turkish lira and make the country a cheap labor paradise for foreign capital, that's your only goal. You stand by the hoarders of dollars, the profiteers, and the tough five. And you're talking about latching, and I'll tell you what it's like to sell city hospitals to Denmark and then pay a patient's guarantee.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0078par0130	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0077par0131	And mandaism is the most bargain land in the world. It's about bragging about us. You're willing to lower the value of Turkish lira and offer the country's subterranean and subterranean assets to attract foreign capital at the price of a bargain. Yes, you're the ones who built city hospitals for your followers to sell them to the Danish company. You Qatars are the ones who went to the gates of the United Arab Emirates and tried to sell the country for a bargain. What historical and cultural presence you have said over the years, you have no limits on plunder, on thalan; the forests are the ones who take the most part of it. You've made a change in regulations regarding the implementation of the Law of the Forest, and with the latest changes you've made, you've pave the way for the construction of forest areas. Yeah, it's not the first time you've done that, in 20 years, on behalf of public interest, you've taken refuge in this -- that's absolutely and definitely the benefit of the company -- and you've looted the forest area. Between 2010 and 2020 alone, you've issued 11 laws or decrees in ten years, disqualifying forest areas and opening them to use. You only allowed 50,000 businesses to be established in forest areas between 2012 and 2020. With these permits, about 340,000 hectares of forest were destroyed. Yes, you have filled the land with mines, and you have filled it with holes, and you have destroyed the forests with the hands of mining and energy companies from the Kaz Mountains to Mount Murat, and from Edirne to Kars. Your followers are going to destroy all the beauty of the minefield and leave the soil behind. What about the locals... they only have pollution, plundered land, contaminated water assets. The looting of cities has affected 70 percent of dry agriculture in Amed, Mardin and Batman, which has grown various products such as wheat, barley, lentils, cotton, in Salt Lake, as a result of the neoliberal policies established on nature's thala, and the land has become barren, and Turkey will have to import grain and groceries for the next year; industrial and domestic waste has also covered the Sea of Marmara, which is flooded by climate crisis and high temperatures; Antalya and Mughla, mainly thousands of forests in the Mediterranean region, including thousands of forests; Kasin, Kasin, Kasin, Kasin, Kasin, Kasin, Kasin, Kasin, and Art. Yes, it's not called the climate crisis, it's literally an ecological crisis created by neoliberal policies. Nature can't restore itself, it can't reach the speed of your plunder, and it's dying. You pride yourself on signing the Paris Climate Agreement, and while you boast about it, instead of ending the deforestation, you aim to open the last of the forest areas to the tharan. Look, while you're slaughtering forests, you're talking about spreading the nation's gardens in 81 provinces as an excuse to create an ecological corridor. I'll tell you what people's gardens are, people's gardens are a runt project made by the hands of TOKI. If you're talking about the ecology corridor, first of all, get your hands off the Validebag. Validebag Korsu is the largest natural green area of Istanbul's Anatolian coast and the first-degree natural site. If he's still alive today, it's because of the Motherhood's resistance. People, I'll give you the number you've set aside for their gardens: only 2021 years exceeded the budget of the 7 ministries. Speaking of TOKI, does anyone here remember the purpose of TOKI's establishment? Social housing production. Three of the top five cities in the world, the largest rent increase in 2021, are in Turkey: İstanbul, İzmir, Ankara. Rents across the country have increased by 55 per cent in the last year, and citizens face serious housing problems. What are you guys doing? It's called urban transformation. Wherever you see a transformation, you have to understand that you're going to collapse, you're going to take people out of their neighborhoods, you're going to drive them out of the city. This is what was done in Istanbul in Okattepe, Tozkoparan, Paperhouse, Czechköy and Farabi Street. Yes, it is your ministry's job, Mr. Minister of Environment, to build projects that will allow people to live in environmentally sensitive, earthquake-resistant, healthy housing, not to implement construction policies based on concrete and ranta. Yes, when you said "don't collapse," I said -- there's a collapse in all of the transformations -- and now you've looked at the work of solid waste collectors under the name of recycling, in Istanbul, you've raided the warehouses of solid waste collectors, especially in Baharlievs and Umrania, and you've confiscated the pullers of hundreds of waste collectors. The reason you're attacking solid waste workers is not to prevent pollution, but to turn it over to the Environment Agency. What you call contributing to the economy with the Zero Waste Project is to open a new door to your companies. Now, what's the Environment Agency doing? This Agency is trying to control Turkey's total waste sector of $38 billion, and its target is not all waste, but depositable waste. So the money-making waste will be the Turkish Environment Agency's, what about the waste that can't? The Power Market Act will be burned, considered biomass, and exorbitant state incentives will still be paid to the public. Yeah, you know what? As we pay for the bridges we don't cross, the highways we don't use, you're going to make the public pay for the uncycled waste. Yes, I'd like to finish my speech with a statement from the solid waste collectors, saying: "It's stuck in our garbage bins." Yes, even the garbage from this people can't save you anymore, and we really have a lot of work to do after you've gone, we have to rebuild a country that's been destroyed for 20 years, and in order to repair the damage done by the AKPEST, it's clear that someone intends to heal and move on. I'd like to say a few words to those who intend to do so, and I'd like to say to them, "You can't continue by improving and strengthening this rotten order that he has planted upon the palace. Yes, this country does not improve until it has the rights of the Kurdish people, not until women are equal and free. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0079par0137	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0077par0138	Not until the whole religious system is isolated from this community, the religion is shut down, the education system is completely transformed, but without universities being autonomous and democratic, a future plan cannot be made. Not until the environment and the landscape are completely blocked, not until this exploitation is over; not without socialism, not without the will of the socialists.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0080par0140	You don't want them to heal healthy for him, so there's nothing left but the chains of the proletariats.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0079par0141	Mr. Murat Çepni, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0081par0142	Thank you, Mayor. The General Assembly and our precious people, our world faces a great extinction. For a long time, there have been debates, especially about the climate crisis. These discussions include both capital states and corporations, but on the one hand, billions of poor people who are directly victims of the issue, who face direct consequences, who are oppressed, who are oppressed. Yes, Turkey was involved in this discussion, but when Turkey was involved in the process, it established its policy that they would take responsibility for the number of people who were polluting it, but that policy -- especially in the recent COP debates -- was updated once again -- for nothing. Because we are living in Turkey with the consequences of a lost forest anywhere in the world. Turkey, too, faces the consequences of this global climate crisis, the crisis of capitalism, the drought, the food crisis, and so on. Now, so, in Turkey, when we discuss the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, we're not just arguing about this Ministry, we can't argue about it, unfortunately, because we're dealing with a very complicated organization when it comes to the years of the AKP. So the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, all the ministries of Justice, in fact, are in an organized alliance with all of this nature-damaged, environmental plundering we're talking about. How does it work? This is how it works: there's only one man at first, and there's a capital fund that this one man is trying to create, the concrete economy, which is the tool of this capital buildup; there's companies around him that we call the 5. These companies are demanding it, and all the ministries are trying to bring it to life by giving orders. The process is similar to this: a nature allocation is being assigned to these companies, the villagers who have disappeared after this nature allocation, the law enforcement forces of the Ministry of Interior stand before those who have gone to the resistance, where people are helping us, we will find help, they go to the courts, the lawyers who have become the triggers of the court, and in the end the issue comes to the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, and the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change is trying to fabricate Janjanjangencies into all these super projects -- under these fingernails -- making Jangeneous makeup. Now, the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, in fact, has to position himself in front of all these ministries once, as a whole, on the days of such ecological destruction, both in the world and in Turkey, but on the contrary, the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change is trying to justify all these destruction policies. This is a tragic, tragic situation. The tragedy is that we're discussing the budgets of many ministries here, but it's possible that all of these ministry budgets, policies, and criticisms can be compensated in some way. So we can change health policies, we can change economic policies, we can change education policies in the short or middle term, but this ecological destruction is almost impossible to fix. So, we did it today, and if we don't, the future will be really blacked out. Now, think, what kind of Turkey are we in? Twenty years of AKP have brought us the most extensive destructions in history. The truth, the truth, needs to be revealed. Look, more than half of Turkey's facial measurement has been divided into mines, so think about it, imagine this; more than half of it is in your head; but when we asked in the Commission, the ministers said, "Yes, that's what we did this, but that doesn't mean that we're going to give mining licenses in all these mining fields. Think about it. We've been able to face such a funny, tragic explanation." Again, the seas, as in the Sea of Marmara, are disappearing; the lakes, about 70 lakes, have disappeared, dried up; the forests are already under a massive attack, but again the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change states that forests are being destroyed. For some reason, the proportions of the forests are increasing, just like the figures of TÜİKAN. But the logic is that planted saplings are considered forests. So, unfortunately, with a plant planted, the forest is a whole other thing, and unfortunately, we have to tell it here, or scientists have to go back and forth and tell it. Our streams are occupied, occupied by the HESEs. What is it? Under the name "Renewable Energy" the HESEs have become a policy in nature, in the Black Sea, in Turkey that destroys streams. Now, look, friends, the fight against the global climate crisis has been debated at COP. It's discussed in Turkey; it's one of the main problems of our Commission, our Ministry. But at the same time, look, there are nuclear power plant projects. Nuclear power plant projects are still being offered as an enormous investment by the power. There's been a new development on the Sinop nuclear power plant, I want to tell you that. The coroner's report has been released recently. The expert report states that emergency evacuation power in case of accident. The outcome of the waste is uncertain -- so it's not clear where the nuclear waste will be stored -- the choice of location is wrong. The CED report is incomplete -- so there's the Department of Environment and Urbanism here -- there's an unauthorized tree cut -- we told it back and forth here, hundreds of thousands of trees were slaughtered -- the waste-dust emissions were miscalculated. There is no report of the earthquake study of the Kandilli Observatory. There's no reports of landslide. Think about it. We're dealing with a nuclear power plant that doesn't exist. I salute our friends who resist nuclear power in Sinop. I salute the anti-nuclear platforms from here once again. Another example of friends, again, another development: Again, there are Twinvillers who protect their forests from the state. From here, again, once again, as we begin, we greet the villagers who have resisted in Twinville and all our friends who have fought in ecology there; they have put up a tremendous resistance, they have demonstrated what they must do. There's a new development there, too. The examination of the expert witness report given earlier months has been cancelled. I mean, there was an illegal expert examination there, and now it's being renovated. Again, there's a cease-and-desist decision. After the cease-and-desist decision, the company shouldn't be working on expansion right now. There are Newville and Kemerville Termic Plants. Now, 780 acres of forest here are about to be destroyed. Think about it, Mughla, this summer we're talking about the city where the forest burns the most, where most of the facial measurements are turned into mining fields, and here the villagers are protecting their forests from the ministries again, as a whole, from the ministries, etc. etc. and so on. Once again, we salute the resistance of our peasants who guard their forests and once again declare that we will be with them. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, at the same time, the issue of thermal power plants, thermal plants, you know, fossil fuels is one of the most fundamental issues of warming, but we're also putting together a hypocritical and incoherent policy on this. Turkey is one of the 10 countries in the world with the most coaled thermal power plants. Thermal plants and pollution cause the early death of between 28,000 and 58,000 people each year. In Çanakkale alone, 400,000 trees were slaughtered in the Kaz Mountains, and imagine, where trees were slaughtered, we are fighting the global climate crisis. 780 acres, the destruction of the forest again, which is very fundamentally stated by our friends. Now, the thermal power plant issue, there are 28 coal power plants in Turkey, but there are more than 30. After China, the country that plans the most coaled thermal power plants, China, is not just a sample of cheap labor, and in this sense, it's a country that's very well modeled. So, what are we gonna do? Here's what we're going to do, dear friends, dear people: we think it's a system problem. In the face of a ranta-based, capital-based understanding of governance, we aim for democratic, publicist, ecology, women's libertarian public power, we aim for politics. We call it democratic and publicist because when people and all parties don't have democratic involvement, that's what comes of it, it's at the mercy of companies like the 5° gang. Another one is going to be a publicist, and it's going to be nature's, so despite the public and nature, we don't accept any development strategies, we reject them; it's going to have to be like this all over the world now. We're going to aim at a strategy, not at the profits of companies, but at the interests of people and of natural life, a policy. In terms of energy, we'll definitely nationalize it. Despite everything, we reject the energy investment. We reject an energy investment policy that kills nature, poisons man. We reject all these projects that deepen the climate crisis, we cancel them, we deny them, we remove them. It's about people moving to big cities, so it's one of the most critical issues. If you keep people from eating where they're born, if you finish farming, animalism, you force people to emigrate.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0082par0155	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0081par0156	Under the conditions under which you are forced to migrate, you will build cities where nearly a million people, such as Canal Istanbul, will be relocated. In this sense, we, democratically, will provide conditions for our people to survive in the democratic conditions of public power where they live. Again, we're going to cancel the thermal power plant and nuclear power plant projects; we consider them a crime. Finally, I would like to say that those who sign up for all these demolition projects, those who approve, know that they commit crimes, and that crime is crimes against humanity, not simply crimes. That's why we're warning you from here one more time. No one can be a party to this crime. And what we call our people is that we're going to change this order, we're going to build a democratic publicist power. We have a solution to all problems. As long as we come together together, as long as we unite, and always keep our faith that we will win.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0083par0160	Mr. Kemal Peköz, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0084par0162	Mr. President, Deputys, Mr. Ministers, I salute you. Again, for various reasons, I salute and cherish our friends, who are held hostage from prisons in various ways, and who are watching us on their screens and watching us on social media. Dear friends, on the way over here, I wanted to talk about the budget and bring up my criticisms about them, but I thought it would be more appropriate to talk about democracy when we've met in the commissions, when we've met in different meetings in different cities before commissions, because we've expressed your approach to budgets and living standards, and that they have no effect on you at all, just as you've been talking about budgets, and that you've reduced democracy to a number of people, and that you've been spending it in the way you want, and that you haven't made any changes. And if I have time, I'd like to mean a few things about earthquakes and transformation. Dear friends, before I came here in the morning, he wrote a letter to a document that looked like everything but the newspaper, which looked like nothing but a five-bit piece of paper -- which our friend just said -- another terrorist who was fed in his prison died. And then he wrote under it, and then he was found dead in his cell. Who was this friend? Garibe Gezer was found dead in his room at the age of 28, when he was transferred from prison to prison, when he was raped and tried to commit suicide, and later because he was put in a solitary cell and wanted to go to his friends. He was called and said to have committed suicide. How do you commit suicide in a solitary cell, what kind of suicide stuff is there? It's a different matter, but it's written like this. When I read this, I thought of the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama is a man who was considered a religious leader by the Tibetans at the age of 3.5, who is now living, although he is very advanced in age. He has a promise that I love very much, and I want to say it first. Dalay Lama, your enemy or opponent, do not hold grudges and hatred against anyone, because hatred and hatred first consume you because no enemy will spare you 24 hours, but your heart is with you for 24 hours, so the hatred and hatred that you put in your heart will lead you before, and then the society that you are in, and then the people that you belong to, and then the world that you are in. Honestly, it's impossible to understand such hatred and hatred, why so much hatred and hatred? Moreover, after a person's death, no matter what happens, whether he is guilty or not, the sentence of death will be lifted. And yet it can be written, but no one turns around and does anything about it, including RTÜK. The Press Agency continues to advertise and feeds it. Again, something else from life; it's about Kurdish. When our friends speak two words in Kurdish, you start freaking out and screaming. A friend of ours spoke Arabic here the other day, and none of you reacted. It clearly shows what's what. Of course, it shouldn't be shown to him, but it can be shown to Kurdish, which is not shown to him immediately. Years ago, when I was publishing, a doctor came to my publisher to publish a book by a friend. If he's alive, and I'm guessing he's alive, he's about our age, Dr. Hikmet Bukan, he's from Konyan. When he found out that I was Kurdish during the speech, he said, "I also speak Kurdish." I said, "How do you know Kurdish?" Of course, I didn't know about Jahanbeyli at the time. Mr. Kemal, I work at Jahanbeyli. I said, "What if you work at Jahanbeyli?" I said, "The patients are coming there, and there are many Kurds in it, mostly Kurds." How can I serve them if I do not understand their language? Just now, when our Imam friend, our Habip friend here, used two words about Kurdish health care, someone immediately stood up and reacted. But that's what it was supposed to be, and it was supposed to be understanding these people. Hence, it was in their language to give the ministry.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0085par0170	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0084par0171	I couldn't get a word in edgewise, I can't. Like I said, we've done this before, and we're gonna keep doing it. Let me tell you something else, it tells a little bit about your situation. In one village, one day people are looking at something gathered. As someone passed by, they said, "What's going on?" Someone went up to the minaret and wanted to commit suicide. Here, some say, "Get off." Some say, "Atla," and some say, "You can't jump." Yeah, it's easy, I'll take him down from there, it's easy. Bring me a rope, a long rope, he says. They bring the rope, they tie it like a noose, they throw it, they hold it. He says, "Hold it." He says, "Give it to your waist." He says, "It fills, it fills, it draws, he dies on the earth." Everyone's getting together. They say, "Ya, brother, you killed the man." Yeah, well, I did a job, but something's wrong. I saved a man with a rope, but I can't remember whether I pulled him out of the well or the minaret. You're in that position right now, you're in a tightrope, you're going to gallop, and there's nothing to do but say, "God bless you." Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0086par0175	Mr. Ayþe Acar Başaran. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0087par0178	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute all our friends here with respect and love, especially our Co-Chairs Figen Yüksekdağ, Sebahat Tuncel, Gültan Kışanak, Denizhattin Demirtaş, who are being held hostage in prisons. So I made a commitment to the Ministry of Family and Social Services on behalf of our party. Of course, this year, as every year, there's no woman's name in the budget. Are we surprised? No, we're not surprised, because the AKP has done everything in its power during its nineteen years, in a very sneaky way, in a way that, in fact, the community, as if it had never understood its own 2023 goals, it has determined a way of life, a form of life for women, and it has done everything in its power to squeeze women into this way of life. Of course, he tried to do it with judgment, with execution, with law, with the media, with the Diet, and as I said, almost all the devices he had, by operating all the mechanisms, and on the other hand, the power formed an actionual alliance with men and men within the community. With this alliance, he provoked men against women in the community while organizing his own statements and actions, allowing us to experience one of the highest levels of violence against women. Now, if you ask me how he did it, I just want to give you a few examples, of course we can make a lot of them. The AKP President -- currently President -- spoke at the Women and Justice Summit. Look, the Women and Justice Summit has stated that women and men are not equal at this summit. During the prime minister's term, Erdogan said something like, "Is she a woman or a girl?" Again, Minister of Finance -- you know Mehmet Simsek, perhaps you don't remember the fact that a lot of finance ministers have changed in this country, but do you know why the unemployment rate is increasing? Because more jobs are wanted in times of crisis. Particularly among women, the turnout for the labor force is increasing during the crisis. So he's offering women's employment as data that increases unemployment. Again, the statement of Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu. When she called out to him, "We want a job, Mr. Minister. " Isn't the work at home enough for you? Now, when the government was saying these words from the highest stage... you remember a period when all the TV shows had wedding programs, and they were marrying people because they needed incentives. What are they doing now? They make women cook. What are they doing now? Again, we watch pornography of violence in television programs because we're in a media circle that legitimizes violence, normalizes violence, normalizes violence. What kind of policy is the judiciary following while the media is running it? And the judge is doing everything in his power to exonerate men in any case involving women. He gives you a tie discount, he gives men a discount when they wear suits. It's not enough. He's giving discounts because they look good in courtrooms. He's just doing the turn-on discounts because she, you know, went out at one point in the night, spoke loudly, laughed loudly. You remember, there were members of this power that considered laughter even indecency. Now, the judiciary is systematically implementing their policy of punishment for any crime against women. It's not an unwanted procedure. When did we see the closest example of this? He was a man, but there was a pressure on him, he was in uniform. If you're a man in this country, especially if you're a man in uniform, you're free to commit all kinds of crimes. Moses Orhan raped a young woman, deprived her of her freedom for days. When she was unable to get results in her latest appeals, Silk Er ended her life with a letter. Do you know how much time Musa Orhan received? Ten years. And it was sent down from twelve years, and it was very good for him. And he's still a danger to women, free and clear. But let me give you an example of the women's point of view, so that you can see the practice of the man's judgment created by this power. Ayşe Gökkan is a friend of ours who spent his whole life fighting women, including the mayor of Nusaybin, a friend of ours who said that the male rule system left women breathless, a friend who fought his whole life for it. He's been called to testify over and over again, wanted to be tried for a woman's struggle. He was last sentenced to 30 years for women's struggle, since he was an activist of women's activities, TJA, or...a Kurdish woman. Here's the practice of male judgment. On the one hand, the rapist gave ten years to an expert sergeant who led a woman to her death, and on the other hand, Ayþe Gökkan, who was punished with thirty years for defending her own identity, her own sex, we see and experience the difference that arises between the two. Now, power, as I said, what does it do when it operates all these devices? And he's taking all kinds of legal steps to get all the women out of their winnings. Look, the right to child support in this country has been debated. They didn't make it, but they're still making every effort to get the right to child support, to get the women's right to child support. Laws have been brought to these platforms in the name of marriage at an early age to justify the abuse of teenage girls on the floor of this House over and over again. Again, although we repeatedly object to this Parliament, the women and children who have committed crimes against them were released, but the women who have fought have continued to be held hostage between four walls in prisons, and do you know what was the last thing that was done? On the one hand in this assembly, he created a perception that he was actually fighting violence against her, while the commission against violence was set up, while he declared that we were withdrawing with the signature of one man in the middle of the night from the Istanbul Convention. So, by the way, what do you think the Minister of the Family did? It's quiet. As a one-woman minister to history... so this is the government's only female minister, who's responsible for the family, who's also responsible for the family, and when the minister of the family announced that he had withdrawn from the Istanbul Convention, the President didn't say a word, but do you know what he did? After withdrawing from the Istanbul Convention, he shared data on the decline of violence against women. He tried to legitimize it, and with that, he went down in history as a minister. Again, what did the Minister of Family and Social Services do? We've been through a pandemic process, we've said over and over again, we've said that violence towards women is the most violent process in crisis and war processes, and we've called it in, and we've asked you to plan an emergency action. What did the Minister of Family and Social Services do again? The current data of violence is tolerable." he said. But we're telling him from here, once again, that he may have a tolerance for himself, but we women don't tolerate violence anymore. It's not in this country. We don't accept violence and murder as high as the current numbers, the loss of one woman's life, the violence of one woman in this country anymore. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, it can be tolerated. I want to explain to the minister what he said: In the first 11 months, 411 women were murdered as a result of male violence. Even today, we received news of a woman's murder, another woman who died suspiciously in a Garib Gezer prison a day or two ago. Of course, this data we're getting is the data that women get through their hard work and effort because the Ministry has not already shared a healthy data with the public for a long time. Because to them, all kinds of violence against women isn't considered violence against women, so they don't share that data with the public in a healthy way. Now, when we have a painting this heavy, we expect it to be tolerated, we don't tolerate it. Do women only face violence because of the policies of this power? No. In this country, both our bodies and our labor are being exploited by unemployment. In the process, we campaigned as the HDP Women's Assembly, saying no to women's poverty, no to women's poverty, justice for women. We've traveled dozens of cities, traveled thousands of miles, met hundreds of women, and we've seen that all women work in unsecured and cheap labor. None of the women have their own health insurance, and there are very few of them.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0088par0187	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0087par0188	Since these women are constantly dependent on family members, they also have a hard time getting away from violent situations. Again, I just want to end up talking about handicapped, refugee women. There are also disabled women in this country; there are disabled women in which you have isolated 100 percent from the community because of your completely solid ideology. Women, disabled women, are part of this community, and they don't want to be isolated from this community. Our friends have already expressed what the refugee women are going through, but we want to say once again that the ruling women are fighting a war, to institutionalize their regime, but you've seen them yesterday, women are not backing down in the face of these attacks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Women will set up a pluralistic, female liberal system against your monogamy system. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0089par0195	Mr. Filiz Kerestecioğlu... Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0090par0198	According to European Statistical Office, EUROSTAT data, Turkey is among the 10 worst countries in the world for employees, while according to the SGK data, 42 per cent of employees receive minimum wage, as well as the minimum wage in Europe. Citizens consider themselves lucky to have jobs, despite low wages, unsecured working conditions, because 20% of the population is unemployed, and women are 30 percent unemployed, so one in three women are unemployed. In working life, it's a bottom line. Meanwhile, we're wondering if the Ministry is using ISKUR's unemployment data or TİK's data while creating employment policy. Because they share conflicting, conflicting information. For example, in September 2021, the number of registered workers has increased by 219,000, and according to TİK, 160,000 have declined, so it is clear why TİK has not given appointments to anyone. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) But also to look at TUGVA to determine the real number of unemployed because it works as a private employment office, you know. We're one of the countries that employs the most child laborers, and over 2 million children are forced to work. In the last eight years, more than 500 children have been killed in the work murders, the SIG Assembly, the Business Security Assembly, reported. Children, laborers, and death; these are words that should never come together. In the first ten months of 2021, at least 1,853 workers lost their lives because their working conditions were unsafe. Every day we read about workers who died in what's called a work accident, but it's a work accident. I'm not going to ask why these murders can't be avoided because capitalism kills, I know. I'm afraid if it's AKP-based capitalism, it's categorical. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Can citizens live on the wages they receive when they are forced to work under these unsecured conditions? Of course not. Seven million workers in this country are being paid below the poverty line. Of course, this 7 million data is from days when we could calculate the age of starvation. It's become impossible to do that in the last few months. The prices of basic needs are rising every day. Can you raise raw milk 47 percent at a time? Well, he's here. And the food crisis is coming fast. Yes, the markets are restricting the sale of sugar, oil, flour. Let's look at the Chinese-type economic model that you've proposed as a solution to this crisis that you've created: China used its growth model in the 1980s, where labor was cheapened, and it exploited a huge amount of labor -- not to be passed on as such a beautiful model -- but it also had a serious plan and industrial technology policy. Now, the part that you're even following in this bad model is just to cheapen the labor. You're telling the people that in the short term, the wages will be severely suppressed. The revenue distribution will be further corrupted, but if you rebel in such a liberation war, you will have a greater regime of oppression and you have no choice but to become poor. Erdogan told the MGK that they had the necessary power to deal with threats, and said: "The threats and trials that could be seen in the process of implementing economic policies have been evaluated." Now, what does that mean? In fact, what we understand from here is that the Chinese model is both this model and another very familiar model - the September 12 coup model. That's what happened on September 12th. Just like the coup regime of September 12th, there's threats, shutting down labor unions, real fees and pressure from inflation and devaluation, and don't write to the press. The poor are poorer, the rich are richer, you see. And we can't have peace. The students who say, "We're coming to Ankara tomorrow." Yes, we can't have peace. They say, "Walk with us." They say, "Walk with us." They come to Ankara. Ministers, Mr. Power, since you've actually caused this, of course, it's funny to say, perhaps, but instead of actually preventing them, solve their problems; that's what you have to do, you have to take responsibility. Dear friends, as mentioned in many of our talks, the most unemployed, off-the-book employees are women, and the women who are subjected to abuse and Mobbinge at work are women. But we also know there's a solution. Women's quotas are needed at workplaces, children's-age should be offered as public service, they should be obliged to open daycare at workplaces where more than 50 employees are employed, they should be signed to prevent harassment and violence at work, but we have more proposals to say, but the unemployment rate is rising because women are looking for work. It is clear that the mindset is not willing to solve these problems. So I'd like to say that there's been a word going around in the House for days that's coming. See, it's not just you, it's our dear people, it's organized struggle and solidarity. It's coming. It's you, or the parties, they're not really these. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Now, we've warned the Minister of Family and Social Services about the delivery of children in the fifth judicial package in the Commission talks of the budget, and we've warned the Minister of Justice about that as well. I'd like to tell you about a Constitutional Court decision dated December 2nd. AYM made an important decision in the case of a woman who was killed by a man she divorced during the delivery of a child. This woman complained that she had been threatened by the man she divorced in 2013, and she had taken a precautionary decision.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0091par0208	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0090par0209	I'm completing it, Mr. President. He was killed in the delivery of a child the day the restraining order was over. That's what we're saying. The AYM also ruled that public officials violated the obligation to protect their right to live and investigate effectively. What you're doing is removing the execution and the police from the area will lead to more murder of women and more abuse of children. Also yesterday, the perpetrator who exposed seven children to abuse in a Koran course in Erzurum Palandöken was detained while trying to escape. May I remind you that it is your responsibility to prevent the new Ensar cases and their catastrophes. Two women died yesterday, one in prison, Garibe Gezer; the other from KHK, Fatma Demirel. I want to express my sorrows from here, and these aren't suicides or anything else, really. It's actually a motive for murder. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0092par0215	Mr. Diyet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0093par0218	Thank you, Mayor. I salute both our people watching us on TV and all my friends being held hostage in prison. Dear friends, the Association of Occupational Qualification has turned into an institution that provides a certificate only to receive funds from the EU, regardless of its working areas and conditions for employment. Therefore, only the result is certified unemployed. Dear friends, the monthly amount of food required for a family of 4 people to be healthy, balanced and adequate is around $3,000, according to Turkish-BiH data. When it is included in housing, rent, electricity, water, fuel, transport, education, health care and so on, the total amount is close to 10,000, but about 13 million people have to live on minimum wage. This 13 million is just the number of registered individuals, but on the other hand, almost half of the country's population is forced to live on minimum wage or minimum wage. So, do you ever wonder how these people get along with these fees? Let's try to explain it again, even if you don't worry. People eat one meal to get by. Again, he cannot heat his house, fruit, vegetables, meat has already become a luxury consumer, they cannot buy milk for their children; they face deep poverty and hunger. So, that's exactly why we insist that the minimum wage should be worth 6,000 dollars, and we suggest that this minimum wage should be exempted from taxes. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Again, dear friends, pensions are no longer a salary, pensioners receive $1,500. I'd like to ask the Minister: How can pensioners live on 1,500 TL? The pensioners don't really get along, so we're recommending that the pensioner's fee should be $5,000 for an honorable life. Again, look, it's in the press, dear friends, because a retired citizen doesn't get along, he goes to a factory to look for a job, he can't find a job. He wants to buy the bread in front of the factory, but because he's embarrassed, I want to buy the bread for the chickens. He actually wants to take it home and eat it with his wife, and he wants to tell it in tears. Let's say it one more time, it's not the pensioners he should be ashamed of, it's not the citizen he should be ashamed of. Do you know who should be ashamed? The ones who should be ashamed are the three payers, the ones who live in luxury, the ones who stamp the resources of this country on their allies, and the ones who ride the multimillion-dollar vehicles, but unfortunately, come on, don't be shy. They are now trying to explain the crisis, let alone shame. What is it? You explain the interest by Nas, and the poverty by Bacara, so you live in luxury yourself, but you go back to the people and you say, "Thank you." You really say, "Give up," and you can't say anything else. Again, dear friends, the AKP is an anti-employee government that makes laws against workers every year, creates unsecured working conditions, keeps pressure on the fight against rights and freedom, which is prevented by job killings. Look what happened to the workers in the 19-year period of power. Many business massacres occurred during this period, such as Soma, Davidpaşa, Ostim, Torons, Isparta, Düzce, Ermenek, Esenyurt, Erzurum, Samsun, Gülluk, Elbistan, Şırnak, Dursunbey, Hendek, third airport, Tuzla Shipyards, jean sanding. In Turkey, about 120,000 to 360,000 workers suffer from occupational illness each year. After the job killings, injustice became a law without punishment, which has often been reduced to fines and paid off by 24 months. The government didn't even abide by its own laws, it didn't protect working children. Each year, 60 or 70 children, one third of seasonal farm workers aged 14 years and under, died while working, while between 120 and 150 women died each year. Nearly 10 per cent of the population of immigrants have worked under uninsured, cheap, exclusive, completely unprotected conditions. Around 100 migrant workers have lost their lives every year recently. Again, Turkey is ranked third in the world in the line of job killings. Since November 2002, when the AKP came to power, some 28,380 workers have lost their lives as if people had not worked or fought. Of course, this painting has a much worse situation for women. The poor also have a crowd to call the poor, which is made up of women. In our country, women are in a state of deep poverty. They are also exploited, invisible, and devalued because of their sex. Look, research gives us more specific data on this. So it shows that the rate of unemployment for more than a year is 20 percent in men and 33 percent in women. Again, women's unemployment rates are considered the highest category in all kinds of unemployment, according to the DİSK-AR report published in October 2021.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0094par0230	What if the ministers listened to us?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0095par0231	Card-giving days today, what's this, job-watching day?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0096par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0097par0233	I'm listening, don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0095par0234	It's like a workday.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0098par0235	They can visit later.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0099par0236	According to the report Women's Places and Political Proposals in the Labor Market: Turkey is at the end of the world with a female employment rate. Again, according to the same report, more than 50 per cent of women work in the service sector, 25 per cent in the agricultural sector and 15 per cent in the industrial sector. 75% of the women in agriculture are employed as free family workers. As women do not receive equal wages for equal work, one-quarter of female workers receive less than minimum wage. I mean, we know you don't care about these numbers because you think women already have one job, and domestic work is a woman's job, and women do it by loving it. We don't have the power to worry about women's unemployment, women's poverty, for him. But you should know that we worry about that because that attitude is an obstacle in front of an equal, fair, free life for us. So we don't accept it, we don't accept it, and we certainly will. [[Applause from HDP rows]] For this reason, we, the HDP Women's Assembly, have met with agricultural workers women, workers and workers all over Turkey in 18 cities; we have listened to their problems, reported their problems, and continued to fight their voices, their words. Look, I just want to share the words of one or two of those women here. What did the women say? There's no money, I can't send my children to school. I work 11 hours, and I only get $30 a day; I give it to bread and I have to work. I can't pay my rent.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0100par0241	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0099par0242	Again, another woman: I'm 55 years old, I've spent my life working, I've gone to dozens of cities, there's no work I haven't done, they're taking the money of the world, God forbid. Poor people die, rich people look. Since I was nine years old, I've worked in sacks and corn factories, and eventually I've collapsed, and now I'm stuck in front of bags of grapes. From Siverek to Izmir Söke, where I built tents in the Black Sea, where I didn't drink water. If I had another job, I'd have retired twice by now. I'm afraid wherever there's poverty, there's women. But we, the HDP Women's Assembly, everywhere we go, I want to say once again that we will try to preach the voices, the words, in addition to the struggles of women in every area. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0100par0245	Congressmans, we will now begin the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. First word, Mr. Mehmet Bachelor. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0101par0249	Mr. President, you're not disinfecting the bench, you have to do it. It's supposed to be disinfected, guys.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0100par0250	We're done with that, sir.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0102par0251	I can't hear you, Mr. President, can you speak up? We'd like to hear what you're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0100par0252	Mr. Tanal, it's private between us and Mr. Bachelor. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0103par0254	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to discuss the Health Department budget. First I have to explain two things, then there's no time. First, we're going to change the health order that makes health market and patient commercial meta. As CHP, we look at health issue from a different perspective; health is a basic human right, never, never commercialise. In CHP rule, health care will be largely run by public hands; it will be a priority for socializing, protective care services. We're going to have a big health revolution in that direction. Mr. Secretary, during the budget talks, I spoke to him about the Turkovac vaccine, and I said, "The vaccine was made in this country two hundred years ago. You're not happy, you're upset that Turkovac's coming out. He said something like that, and then they probably did a public relations study. In all the media, you've created a perception that we, I, are opposed to the Turkish vaccine, Mr. Secretary, you've been unfair.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0104par0257	Mr. Bacheloroglu, address the General Board.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0103par0258	Look, Mr. Secretary, I don't have private hospitals, and I'm not saying that people should get sick and visit my hospital. You have no right to do such a thing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0105par0259	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0103par0260	Dear friends, the Ministry of Health's budget has increased by 50 percent, but this increase is not an increase when the cost of pandemics and payments to city hospitals are taken into account. You know, President Erdogan said we're doing it without spending a cent. It's not what city hospitals say. As of 2017, large sums of money are paid from the budget under the price of service and rent. My dear friends, the process we've been through has been an important period in which these neoliberal economics and health policies have been tested due to pandemics. We have once again seen what an inhuman system, a model, a system that makes human health and everything a subject of commerce. No, only the rich have been richer, the poor have not been poorer; the poor have not even been able to find vaccines; there are still countries in Africa that have not had vaccines. Well, I'll tell the AKP lawmakers -- especially not like you said -- Mr. Secretary, there's no such thing as a positive dissolution, no big success story. You couldn't bring society into this, and your public relations were very bad, and no one believed what you said. Instead of telling people the truth and asking them for their support, you told them how bad the situation is in Europe, so you tried to create a sense of how well things are going in Turkey, while still in Turkey there are 20,000, 30,000 new cases a day, and 200 people are dying. Dear lawmakers, this power saw the pandemic as money and production, not as human and human health, and continued to employ millions of people; it was not enough, it delayed closures so the economy wouldn't slow down, and it didn't apply enough. You've done nothing but increase the volume of loans because of Pandem spending, you've only seen the bosses; they were supposed to invest, they were supposed to be employed, but they didn't, so they left because they didn't, so they beat up the loans and put them under, of course. We did, but you didn't listen, and it was the right thing to do, because people would spend it, and the market would come alive. Direct assistance was around 3 per cent of the non-national estate, but the loans you've made have exceeded 10 per cent. Even so, both the President and the ministers, we have helped the pandem as much as 13 per cent of the illegitimate domestic patient. It's a shame, it doesn't exist. Dear MPs, because of the city hospitals, people didn't pile up in the corridors. You kept bragging about it. Success in intensive care is not yours, nor is it of the Health Transformation Programme, which commercialises health. In intensive care, our physicians and other medics have worked in a brutal way, presented unprecedented examples of heroism, and if there is any success in fighting Covid-19. The success is for our medics. I congratulate them, I give them my regards, they're all dead, and I ask for God's mercy. My dear friends, the Change of Health Programme is the challenge to fighting Covid-19. This was caused by the lack of the protective medicine department of the Program. I hereby honor and cherish the Nusret Fireworks teacher who founded the protective system in our country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We have sent medical aid and vaccines to 150 countries. You boasted that you have bent the truth to perform an inside perception operation; you even use sickness, human suffering. What the hell was that? With the President's signature, you sent home five masks, one bottle of cologne, who did you give it to? We're sending masks to England. You've been swelling up, but you still haven't dealt with the vaccine. Unfortunately, we've yet to reach a point in the inoculation where we can control the pandemic. In this process, we saw once again how wrong it was to ban vaccine production in the Health Transformation Programme. My dear friends, in this country, they were actually making vaccines a hundred years ago. The vaccines were enough for the country and we were selling them out. However, during the rule of the 20-year Justice and Development Party, there was no investment in the Refik Saydam Institute of Hüfzizsihyha, the vaccine infrastructure was destroyed and eventually shut down. Now all the vaccines are coming from almost outside, Belgium, China, India. One in Turkey, the Konjuge pneumococcus vaccine, which Pfizer makes, my dear friends. Look, I don't think it's right to use the word "betrayal" in politics, but if it's to be used, there's no greater betrayal than the destruction of the country's substructure of vaccines, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let's take a closer look at this Health Transformation Programme. In a nutshell, my dear friends, what you've been telling me over the years is that the government's share in health is reduced, the private sector's share increased, the hospital's name is made into business, the patient's name is made a customer service, and therefore the customer's share and the difference. This is what we call the Health Transformation Programme, my dear friends. Now, I can hear people saying, "The patient has satisfaction." Yes, there was a great deal of satisfaction from hotelry, but now, it's not. There are even problems with access to the ministry now. You can't even make an appointment. My dear friends, a new development by the Health Transformation Programme is also a performance system. The more work, the more money. You've narrowed the patient's time down to five minutes. It is not a human environment that is devoid of quality, eliminates doctor-patient relationships, prevents the treatment of serious and difficult health problems. Paramedics weren't just beaten up by the performance system, my dear friends. Health workers have been shown as responsible for the problems caused by the system, as well as targeted health workers. It's the foundation of violence in health, and one of the reasons is this administration, my dear friends. This provoked health order has made physicians sick, and the medics are not happy. There are many physicians and other health workers trying to go abroad. Around 1,000 physicians leave the country a year. Medical education has also suffered a major blow. Medical education doesn't agree with the slogan more money, my dear friends. You have increased the quota of medical schools by saying many doctors, many contacts, many coins, not enough; you have opened unaccounted medical schools without books, without teachers, and you have even brought an outside doctor. We are now number 1 in Europe with 64 medical schools. Germany, poor Germany and Italy have 38 medical schools [[!]] My dear friends, there's nothing wrong with just health education and medical schools. There's such a thing as HUD, Health Apps. According to the tariffs here, Social Security pays hospitals. This remains in 2016, not increasing, my dear friends. That's why college hospitals can't afford it, because they can't afford it, my dear friends. But the Ministry of Health is going, taking special protocols with the SGK, doing them, and getting skim payments to city hospitals. They make 200, 300 percent difference in private hospitals, my dear friends. The university can't afford hospitals, and the hospitals are closing down. Minister, as I was passing through Çorum, I read something like this: the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey, Hitit University, Çorum Erol Olar Education and Research Hospital. Are the university hospitals connected to the Ministry of Health, Minister? Is that a thing? When did this happen? We didn't hear it? Look, my dear friends, the Department of Health is ruining college hospitals. Why is that? He's got to get out there and tell me about it. No college hospital, no doctor, no doctor, no health, no specialist, no bullshit. My dear friends, I'm finishing, and I'm running out of time. Our friends will talk about city hospitals. City hospitals are still a big story at work. No, look, I'm telling you in a few sentences what city hospitals are: a man comes in, spends 250 million dollars, builds a hospital; he's guaranteed to operate for fifteen, twenty-five years; he's guaranteed to win a billion dollars back; he's guaranteed to examine it every year; if they don't pay for it, it's paid by the government. And when there's a disagreement, the London courts -- where are the MHP ranks? - is in charge.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0106par0279	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0103par0280	Yes, thank you. My dear friends, I'm almost finished. Why are city hospitals out of town? They're called city, city hospitals. Yeah, you build malls in the city, but you move hospitals up the mountain. Organised industrial areas, it's not clear here. My dear friends, look -- the time is up -- Ankara's very important icon hospitals have all been shut down. We keep asking why it's been turned off, what happened to the equipment, what are you going to do with the place? We're using it. It says. We don't know how you're going to use it, but I'm going to ask the Minister of Health one important question in your presence: Mr. Secretary, when you're taking city hospitals to the mountainside, why are you setting up hospitals in the centers of your own university in Istanbul and Ankara? You set up the second bridge in Istanbul; you have a dental school building near the high-speed train station in Ankara. How do you do these things, does it help that you're the Secretary of State while they're being done? Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0107par0286	Thank you. Mr. Burhanettin Cloud...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0108par0289	Mr. President, our country has been suffering from a shortage of drugs that every citizen who goes to the pharmacy on his prescription since November feels closely, that only the Minister of Health doesn't feel, doesn't accept. The reason is there's a drug price decree, which is that the drugs are priced once a year, and that date has only increased twice as much over the euro as last year's drug has been priced. This increase in the wolf, and in this sector, especially the import of all of its products in this area, or the import of 70 percent of its raw materials in domestic medicines, has been a serious problem, and the decision of this drug has not been played in any way in 12 years. Now, there's a problem here, and the Minister of Health is in charge of solving it. What the Minister of Health is going to do is put together the existing networks in the sector, and how do we solve this problem? What's in here? One is the local pharmaceutical industry. The local pharmaceutical industry says I'm having trouble getting the stuff. For example, a support can be given here. Pharmaceuticals say we can't run our pharmacy anymore. It is easy to solve this problem by increasing the right of occupation within Pharmaceutical Price Decision. As soon as this problem is resolved, the drug will not double as much as the increase in the wolf, as I mentioned, but as we talked about it in the Commission, the Minister of Health finds the solution: a typical RTE tactic, the problem is not me, it's you." (HPP clapping in rows) He answered the questions we asked on the commission in writing, and the answer is: The drugs are in large quantities of free pharmacies. So what the citizen is talking about, when he goes to the pharmacy, he ignores his problems. And when we look at the denominator here, he doesn't really have to do any inspections, because the drug has a kara code system, a Pharmaceutical Tracking System. He can look it up on his computer from his seat, but instead he's printing pharmacies -- just like he's raiding the onion warehouses. The answer says 261 pharmacies are controlled, but 261 pharmacies in 26,000 pharmacies are not even 1 in a thousand. It's like I just said, the RTE tactic is to take the blame and blame them in public, so it's out of its own hands. So, as every citizen living in Turkey right now is bound to declare one day either a terrorist or a traitor, the pharmacists have been declared traitors here. It's the pharmaceutical warehouses, the pharmaceutical industry that caused the beca problem, and the pharmacists who put the government in a difficult position. Let's see, these talks will be held by February, until February, hopefully, it won't become a public health issue. Mr. Secretary, the health workers are waiting for the appointment. And they're throwing a lot of tweets on social media, and they're trying to get to us in the same way. What they're asking is, you've declared this year a medical year. There hasn't been an appointment in 13 months. You're always saying there'll be 40,000 appointments, when will this appointment manual be published? (HPP) What we're asking you to do is, you know, you can't say anything without consulting the President, without his permission, in that respect, a question to the President as a Minister of Health: when are these appointments going to happen? For no reason, you declared it a medical year. Being a medic in Turkey means 720,000 unemployed medics. Mr. Minister, being a medic in Turkey means being subjected to constant seizures, heavy workloads, mobbingte violence. In this country, health care is not paid for. It is said, especially as you say - and then you do not pay for anything. Thirty-six hours later, his seizure is to die in a car accident after which to become a medic in Turkey. Being a medic in Turkey means distinguishing health workers even in the bag of legislation. Last week's bill for our House offered a salary increase, only for physicians. Even here, you're discriminated against. There are pharmacists working in public, and like dentists, they do important tasks.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0109par0293	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0108par0294	Again, health workers, health technicians, they're part of a whole, but you don't give both citizens and health workers that kind of confidence. Ever since you were Minister of Health, citizens have been afraid of getting sick. When you made an appointment with the Central Doctor's Appointment System or ALO 184, you created digital queues. Those who make an appointment and go to the hospital will be examined in five minutes and then try not to close the order of those who line up. Again, while you blame people who can't find drugs when you go to pharmacies, you are constantly removing the drugs from the SGK's payment list, increasing the share that the citizen pays from his pocket. As a result, we have no suggestions for the Minister of Health, but I have only one advice for our citizens: Do not get sick in this country where Fahrettin Kabhrettin is the Minister of Health.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0110par0299	Mr. Murat Amir, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0111par0301	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, with love, with the honor of our fellow lawmakers and our fellow citizens watching us on television. We're discussing the Health Department budget, and unfortunately, health care has reached a critical threshold in our country. The accessibility of health care has become extremely difficult; our citizens cannot reach the doctor, cannot make an appointment, wait for the order of surgery, and eventually become afraid of getting sick. Look, before I got here, just this morning, I wanted to make some appointments for myself, and they said there was no appointment. This MHRS system is a 15-day appointment... I asked for an eye appointment; I wanted to be examined in Ankara, in Çankaya, Mr. Secretary, there is no appointment. So I'm gonna have to wait 15 days to get a physical. Well, where can I get an examination in Ankara? I said you could be in the State Hospitals of Nahallihan and Beypazarı. The system said. That's the cool MHRS system. Now, you're going to come here, you're going to show pictures, maybe you're going to show cool pictures from city hospitals, but that's the problem. Millions of people can't make appointments, and actually we've finished those tails that you're bragging about. You know, they actually have virtual tails, and you just don't want to see them, but our citizen is alive. Dear friends, if this were a dental appointment, look, it's from the Nallihan State Hospital, but it says that only dental work can be done. It's so difficult. We can't operate, citizens. I haven't had hernia surgery in six months. I've got a patient who says... Wherever you look, orthopedic, neurosurgery, and emergency trauma cases that require prosthetics, particularly implants, can't be operated on right now. Why? Because they don't have spending supplies. Why? Because you've finished the business. Look, the amount of debt in the medical equipment and materials sector is over 9 billion, and the average payment period is over 18 months. You crashed the sector, you didn't pay. This sector would have survived if you'd paid the 5th of a thousandth of what you paid that group. And when this sector can't deliver, right now our hospitals can't find the simplest medical spending materials and more complex, more complex materials, and the surgeries are at a standstill. Mr. Secretary, you can't hide this reality from anyone. Dear friends, the family medicine system is a disaster. The workload of family physicians is constantly increasing, but their earnings are constantly scurrying, and in the end, our friends, the family physicians who fought on the front line of the front line, and the health workers that they work with, are under heavy burden, trapped between resignation and retirement dilemma. Of course, it's a fact that young physicians don't want to stay in Turkey anymore, and we're ready to contribute to you, Mr. Secretary, now that this budget is over, we're looking at a decent, complementary raise that includes all health workers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, in August, you said take 20 million test kits. And in three months' time, I'll tell you the details -- we'll deliver them right away. Then, on the last day, the tender was canceled; it was surprised, a new letter, a new tender, and it was canceled on the last day, because whoever had the strength to surrender to the address would be held according to him, and eventually, at the third tender, they managed to get this test kit. But he gave up something when he took it, and the Ministry of Health said, "I don't want to scan the mutant virus." So the test kits are blind to variations. The Ministry of Health has to play blindside with Covid. Now, the Minister of Health says: "We don't have Omicron." Who does? Nobody. Why? Because you're not scanning. Are you doing the sequence analysis? For example, what's your sequence analysis frequency? Less than 1%, Mr. Secretary, but there are countries that do that at 40 percent. Now, if you don't do this scan, you don't know, you're blind to the variants, so there's no Omicron in our country. You're in the comfort of it, and you're going to come and tell it like it's a success, and we're going to watch with surprise. You didn't hear it from me, but they call you master of the altitudes, and everyone knows that you've manipulated the number of cases, the number of deaths, just as you've kept the number of patients. Because when you look at the number of deaths of only 11 counties from infectious diseases, the fact remains clear that they should be more than 150,000. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, look... I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0112par0311	Don't worry, we have it. Don't worry...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0111par0312	I know, I know.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0112par0313	I'll explain at any moment.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0111par0314	I know, of course.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0112par0315	We have... don't worry.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0113par0316	Go ahead, finish what you're saying.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0111par0317	You're going to explain, Mr. Secretary: we're doing a 1.5% sequence analysis. Tell us how many centers you're doing, and we'll be happy to hear it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, the fourth dose is... look, this is the map the Ministry explains every day, and we're happy with it, and I wish there was more, if there was less anti-occession, we really need it. Well, why aren't there four doses of vaccines here? We don't have four doses of vaccines here, but we have maybe over a million citizens with four doses of vaccines. What's hiding? I'll tell you what's hidden, because the Ministry of Health has stood senselessly near the Sinovac vaccine. You know why? It came to $7, sold for $12, someone made $5. (Applause) Now, Mr. Secretary, the future logistics, storage, flagoning, boxing. That means the costs are under a dollar. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now that the Minister has explained, who took about 250 million dollars, where did he share it? Explain that, too. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0114par0324	Mr. Fikret Şahin, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0115par0326	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. And I wish the budget of 2022 to be a blessing for our country and our nation. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin with a joint assessment of the Court's reports over the last three years. The Court reports say that the municipal hospitals are incompatible with accounting procedures. Mr. Secretary, there is no public harm in the Commission's report. Although the reports do not confirm Mr. Minister because reports say that the Ministry has been created for public damage. City hospitals with massive public damage are basically corporate hospitals, a front for wire transfers from public to private companies, and are the longest-term robbery system in the history of the Republic. So city hospitals are not public-private co-operation projects, but AKP-sponsored co-operation projects. (HPP) City hospitals are a global exploitation system imposed on our country by the AKP, and are the capitalizations of today. It also violates Turkey's sovereignty rights. Look, this is Act 6428, which has been specially issued for the construction of city hospitals that I have here. A 2013 law has been changed over and over again, and this change is at the request of the financiers. There are at least 10 changes I can detect. The most important change is made in 2015, two years after the law was passed, and the Turkish courts' powers are being taken over and London courts are being made official. When the Court asks, "Why did you make this change?" The financier is answered at the request of the companies. And here, they take away the amendment you call "Söke." In 2015, you write the amendment to this law, and again, by agreeing to pay the rent of city hospitals in exchange for Turkish lira, you make Turkish lira worthless. Once the city hospitals are damaged and unusable, you'll still agree that the insurance payment is not to the Ministry of Health, but to the financiers. Sure, I'd like to ask: who gets paid for insurance? The owner, of course. So the city hospitals here don't own the Department of Health, they're the financiers. And in 2019, the Court makes this statement, saying that the interests of the editors have preceded public interests. Look, what is this, not capitalization? In a moment from here, I'll explain to you the certificate of capitalization. Before that, I've already explained to you the document from this bench about the tender fraud at Isparta County Hospital. As the tender process continues, while the commission has not yet been decided, the health minister of the period, the AKP lawmakers of the period, are laying the foundation with the firm, and then four and a half months after pressuring the tender commission -- by making a decision on the commission -- they give that tender to that firm. So this is what you see in my hand. This is the document for the tampering with the tender. I showed it here, and now I'm showing it again because it's connected to the capitalization document. Look who signed this document: I'd like you to pay attention to this trinity -- Assistant Undersecretary of Health at the moment -- and undersecretary of Health at the time, Job Silver. Look, please watch out for these three. On July 24, 2014, a month after giving the tender for Isparta City Hospital, they all go to England, to London, look here; this is the capitalization document you see in my hand, my friends. (HPP) It is now broadcast on the official website of the British government from September 5, 2014; it is a very shameful document, a shameful document, and do you know what it says? It says that 40 city hospitals will be built in Turkey. It has a capacity of 99,000 beds. It says, "How are we going to help Turkey to invest 8 billion pounds?" And most importantly, we will benefit British companies with investments in Turkey. Look, it says, and it stands. So, who's in the photo found in this document? Look, I'll show you the picture. Here -- just now -- under this corruption document at the Isparta City Hospital, there's Undersecretary Job Silver. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, now, I'll continue again.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0116par0334	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0115par0335	Again, look, in this photo, Deputy Health Minister, here's First. On the one hand, the capitalization document, on the other, sir, here's the document, the document of corruption in the tender, the same 3/lu; you took it to England, you delivered Turkey's healthcare system and then you said: "Sir, we're local and we're national." What part of that is native and national? I'll show you how to be local and national. To be domestic and national is to convert these foreign currency payments into Turkish lira; see, we proposed the law as CHP. To be domestic and national, it requires publicizing the city hospital; see, we proposed the law. (HPP) Being domestic and national requires reinstating Turkish courts, and we have proposed the law as the Republican People's Party again. (H.P.) It is at heart, friends, to be native and national. Look, we've got a big hump on our back, Mr. Secretary, take this hump. Einstein has a saying that the mindset causing the probing cannot solve that problem.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0117par0337	Don't talk that way, talk that way. He'll talk to everyone.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0115par0338	The mentality that causes the problem is the deputy ministers, you can't solve it with them, and the citizen expects you to solve it. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0118par0341	Mr. Hawk, your time is up. Mr. Bayram Yilmakaya, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] You guys, come on in. Mr. Yilmakaya, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0119par0347	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] If you start over again...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0118par0350	Let's turn the clock back on. Friends, please look, your own friend is on the stand, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0119par0352	Dear friends, I salute all health workers with love and respect, especially because of their superior effort and sacrifice during the pandemic period. (CHP) They're our health heroes, they're our martyrs; I cherish them all, they deserve the respect they need. Dear lawmakers, no one sees or hears the health minister's problems, including the health minister. Realistic policies must be implemented as soon as possible in order to address problems in health care that are too vital to be conducted by daily policies. Mr. Secretary, you used the following statements in your ministry's budget presentation: we're doing everything we can to improve the working conditions of our health workers. We want to increase the doctors' fixed additional payments and ensure that all fixed additional payments are made from the general budget; we need the support of our deputies on this issue. You said. Now, I'd like to rephrase this: Is anyone holding your hand, Mr. Secretary? I told you on the Commission. But we've seen that even when you're making your statement, what's going on here? What did he say? Everyone saw that it was Mr. President who held your hand in his manner; believe me, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, we have taken your sin. But we're ready for backup, as long as you're brave enough to solve these problems. In fact, unfortunately, you've watered down the salary hike you've already announced to do, making it a target in front of the community, making it look like it's only going to be done to physicians, which we haven't been able to do, Mr. Minister. Bring in the necessary arrangements as soon as possible so that we can provide the necessary working and living conditions for all our health workers. Mr. Secretary, as the Ministry of Health, you are not defending the rights of the medics, nor of the doctors, nor of the nurses, nor of the citizens. (HPP clapping in rows) Dear friends, this attitude of yours causes us doctors to doubt that you are not a physician, or whoever sits in these seats forgets about being a doctor. I think if you manage the Ministry of Health as a pediatrician, a physician who embraces deontology, instead of a company that maintains the balance of wild capitalism, all of these problems will be over. Now, valued lawmakers, the health workers who have been at the front with Covid-19 pandemics for nearly 18 months, have been shouting to us that no official has heard the problems they're having. Do you hear these health workers screaming? I don't think you do. You've delivered the entire country to the Sinovac vaccine, which is said to have a 50 per cent protection, even though it has a bioNTech vaccine, which is very easy to reach, where the people who found it are Turkish scientists. Mr. Secretary, the majority of our people who are in intensive care and dying are inoculated, but unfortunately, the second-round majority are the two Sinovac vaccines, are you aware of that? Dear lawmakers, the medics are screaming that they want to work as a human being and live as a human being. In order to regulate the intensive working conditions of our healthcare workers, the appointments to the missing staff must be made, the rights to the essence must be improved. Health workers are under pressure from patients, sick relatives, administrators, politicians. Health workers want permanent temporary tasks to be terminated, staff deficits to be eliminated; Covid-19 wants to be considered a occupational disease; they want to end the excessive and disorganized work effort to reorganise the working hours, given the human working conditions; healthcare workers who are subjected to brute force, assault and violence want a safe working environment. Believe me, you won't find a medic soon enough, fellas. Health workers now want the problems of annual leave to be resolved; the promise of 3600 additional indicators has not been fulfilled, and they want those promises to be kept. They want the wage imbalance among health workers to be corrected; they want the performance system, which is bad for the patient and the doctor, to be removed from the quota system as soon as possible. Is that so hard to do, Mr. Secretary? Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid I'm going to mention one more painful fact: Europe is jealous of us. You say that, but it's actually the medics in Europe who feel sorry for us. The point is that any hospital transactions, any equipment, the SUT payments, no longer sink the hospitals, have put the procedures at a standstill. In our country where a bag of fertilizer is $500, a tank of gas is worth $600, a coronary angio SUT is $523, Mr. Ministers. I'll give you another example so you'll understand: $37.8 for a car with the lowest transit fee on the Osmangazi Bridge, including VAT. However, the money paid for the C-section is $567, friends. Again, power hospitals pay 505 lira for appendectomy. Soon these surgeries and these procedures will not be done, dear friends. The power that pays 520 lira for subsidiary companies, extortions, for the vehicle that does not even cross bridge fees pays far below costs for operations, operations and transactions. Why is power not concerned with the health of our citizens?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0120par0361	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0119par0362	On the other hand, these SUT payments include, in particular, the work of doctors and health workers, other than the costs of hospitals, so please repay them. Look, these S.U.T. payments are very important, and they're doing a thousand-dollar heart surgery in our country right now. Look, I'm not saying it according to European prices, Minister. Even in Europe, these surgeries do not cost less than $5,000. Mr. Secretary, the painting in your budget is a matter of choice. It would have been nice if you could have used your choice for your hospitals, your doctors, your health workers, not those who robbed the country, not those who robbed the country. There are no hospitals in this budget, no doctors, no nurses, no health care staff waiting, no health management graduates, I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary, but despite everything, I wish the 2022 budget to our country, our nation and our health workers with good fortune. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0121par0366	Dear Ali Sugar... Dear Sugar, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0122par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Ministers, first of all, I salute all workers and health workers. We need a sustainable health policy and a budget that can implement this policy to ensure that we do not lose more of our physicians, health workers, citizens, pandemics or healthcare systems. When the $116 billion Health Ministry budget came to parliament, the budget, which was $19.19, was 12 billion, 613 million, was reduced to $9 billion, 600 million in the Commission phase; today, at the General Assembly stage, the currency dropped to $13.88, which is $8 billion, 357 million. Even before the year began, $4 billion, $256 million, over half of 116 billion dollars -- $59 billion -- flew away. With the medicine dollar, the device, the medical material was euro; the concrete was Turkish lira; with this public-private cooperation, you turned it into dollars, which turned into dollars. We needed a budget for the medical staff, to get new medical personnel. We're not supposed to lose our medics to foreign countries, but unfortunately, we're talking about the budget for 2022 because of poor economic management, uncertain courtship pressure, wrong policies, and we have to fix it. When we look at the Health Ministry budget, the insistence on the wrong economic policies is no longer budgeted for protective public health care. The Health Ministry budget is rapidly turning into the city hospitals budget, the result of this increase in dollars in euros. Given that the pandemic will increase in 2022, we have about 500 citizens who have lost their lives every day -- including today -- according to official figures, PCR positives, non-positives, and Covid-related diseases -- and we have only $6.60 a share of health care from $100 per day. With this budget, there's no way we can handle this process. It's been days of sacrifice by physicians, but now the knife is up to the bone, and physicians, health workers, are now on the verge of extinction. The condition of physicians applying for work abroad reveals that in all its clarity. In 2012, only 59 physicians applied to go abroad, but today -- in 2021, when the year is not over -- 1,270 physicians are applying to go abroad -- four physicians every day; in this case, how will we maintain our health? Dear friends, our Surgeon Pasha, Chapa and Hacettepe are graduating 1,133 people a year in total, but we are losing 1,270 physicians abroad, and these are the rarest physicians in Turkey. In the meantime, we must make improvements that will keep the physicians. The apocalypse broke out because a physician who had been trained for twelve or thirteen years would receive $850 in pensions, whereas knowledge, where he was not respected, art migrated from an unappreciated place. Ibn Sina said, "We are losing them by sight, but we are not doing anything." Sadly, we lose more than 10 percent of the physicians we graduate every year abroad. As Parliament, we need to get these corrections on our agenda as quickly as possible in case of systematic decline; immediately after this budget, we must make the necessary improvements of health workers, physicians, together. We've passed a law on violence in health, not enough; let's make it adequate. We said, "Unfortunately, it hasn't been done." There have been four attacks on the same night at the children's health clinic in Surgery. On the one hand, there's the Malpraxian pressure on the medics, and as a result of this Malpraxian pressure, people, physicians, are no longer able to touch the patient. And there used to be this thing called primum non nocere. Doctors used to say, "Don't hurt me first! Now he doesn't touch the patient -- which we now call "degenerative medicine" -- and when he doesn't touch the patient, he gets sick because of his health. Sadly, people, physicians no longer apply to majors, especially during the second term of TUS, in majors such as children's health care, general surgery, neurosurgery.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0123par0379	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0122par0380	Since the physicians did not apply here, these staffs remain empty. Last year, 800 staffs remained empty like this, and in one period the applications did not respond. We need to go back to making arrangements so that physicians in these risky majors can choose this place again. On the other hand, the psychiatric law, the mental health law, needs to be passed. Just recently, a psychiatric patient who had not been admitted to bed murdered a young girl with a sword because of the gap in the law. Another person slaughtered a child by calling one of our young students "deccal. " For him, the mental health law must be passed immediately, and the Parliament will be tasked with it. What we're going to do is improve the conditions of the medics from now on. These physicians are not only going by themselves, but Turkey's health is going by. The mission falls to all of us, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0124par0384	Mr. Gökan Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0125par0387	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget, and I salute your delegation. When the budget for 2022 was transferred to the Commission, dear friends were worth $211 billion, and when it came to Parliament today, its value was reduced to $126.9 billion. I'm guessing it'll come up with a value of less than $100 billion when it's implemented in 2022. You can't expect anything from the budget of $240 billion, $132 billion for investments -- $9.4 billion for dollars -- 2022. In a country with 56 per cent of TÜFE, 21 per cent of TÜFE, we can say that the increases in the ÜFE would pressure TÜFE (TÜFE) in the coming months, and society would see it in life as a raise, a raise, and a raise. Each Minister announced the mid-term plan separately. The middle-term plans, which the ministers announced in a row, have completely collapsed. Over the past month, the value increase in dollars has reached 41 per cent, while the value loss of Turkish lira has reached 41 per cent. Precious lawmakers lost their Turkish lira volatility, and now Turkish lira is no longer valid, and the money in many sectors, especially housing, has become the dollar. We can say that Turkish lira has lost a dollar in that sense. Construction costs... Just last year, the amount of construction iron, which is now $3, has increased to over £12, and the cost of 1 cubic meter of concrete, which is 160 euros, has increased to over 500 TL. You know what doesn't go up during this period? It's just construction workers' wages. The sector is sinking, people are screaming, companies can't make a sound. Besides, it's no longer possible for the worker, the worker, the officer to have a home with these construction costs. Dear friends, in 2021 the Ministry established a 200,000 TL budget for the renovation of risky structures. Mr. Secretary, the amount you call 200000 TL is no longer enough to finish the roughness of a construction. The risk for all buildings in Istanbul, especially the Marmara region, is increasing. In this regard, I say that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is very important to co-operate with the local authorities, and I invite this cooperation. The earthquake commission worked for six months, we filed reports, the book was published. We haven't had a law or a change of regulations since. So, if the solutions in that book don't come to life, who will be responsible for the lives and possessions we lose if these risky structures fail? Of course you'll be responsible. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, he's not doing this, the Ministry, what's he doing? Kadıköy Süğlü Çütlü Çümü is reopening the public transport station area in Çeşme. Despite the court's decision to abort. Haydarpaşa High School converts its status to sustainable protection and controlled use from the natural site, takes the area of health care in the Umraniye Financial Center into a housing trade, takes the military facility area in Sarıgazi to trade, and puts the non-regional area in Skopjedar Altunizade into a health facility. What else is he doing? In Kemerburgaz, he opens up his golf and sports field, which is owned by the Blackbaren group; the court cancels it, makes a new plan and suspends it in four days. What speed is this? What speed is this? (Applause from CHP rows) You're nationalizing the golf course for $325 million, the company of Demirören, who didn't get a $750 million loan from the Agriculture Bank and pay it off. The 18-hole golf course is $325 million, and now the government has a public facility worth $17.5 million each golf hole, so good for you. What do you do when you're nationalizing the golf course? You give it back to the blacksmith, and you rent it back to him. You know why? So they can curse the opposition on their TV, and they can give you false commendations in their newspapers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You narrowed down the municipalities' jurisdiction, raised a member of the Ministry in the UKOME (UKOME) from 11 to 16. You have become a tyrant to the people of Istanbul because of the taxi situation in all municipalities, especially Istanbul. The injustice of your help in municipalities has become so unfair that you've given 2.5 per cent to opposition municipalities where 65 per cent of people live, and 97.5% to the rest of your fellow municipalities.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0126par0399	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0125par0400	The municipalities handed out milk, passed out transportation cards to mothers with children, granted scholarships to students, granted human water rights, you even did all sorts of procedures to prevent them. Canal Istanbul is your indispensable dream, your indispensable dream. You've built hundreds of millions of square meters. I ask you: Why don't you consider taking the value increase tax from your allies who have bought these land over the past ten years? You may not get it, but the power to take it is coming very soon. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's a disgusting debt, the Canal Istanbul issue is a disgusting debt. The bureaucrats who signed this debt must know that with this Canal Istanbul Project, those who have damaged this nation in terms of environment and zoning, those who have damaged this nation in terms of the budget, will also pay for it; the officers must know that in the courts, the politicians will pay for it in the Supreme Court. Finally, I'm talking revenues reduced, salaries melted, production sunk, power drained, going away. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0127par0407	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Murat Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0128par0409	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute the Veteran Assembly. After becoming Minister of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism since 2018, we have discussed the budget of the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change in 2018, we have spoken in 2019, we have spoken in 2020, we are talking now. What has changed, my friends, over the past three years? Nothing's changed. Look, climate policies will determine the future of the world, so we need serious financing; we need reduction policies; we need protection policies, we need climate justice. Last year, I criticised the budget; last year it was a thousandth of the general budget, the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change budget, which is now 28 per thousand, my friends. You know how you say such big things about the Green Development Revolution? With a thousand to one, or with a thousand to one? (HPP) So, without being embarrassed or bored, you're saying the Green Development Revolution. Look, Turkey reached a $3.2 billion fund before this Paris Climate Agreement, was that money taken? If it was taken, where was it spent, where would it be spent? The European Union's budget for the next six years, 2021-2027, splits 1.8 trillion euros, 30 per cent of it into climate policies. We have 28% in a thousand, 30 percent in the European Union. Even that alone shows that you have no problem with climate crisis. We're looking at your budget, so in the Performance Programme, 2019, the Performance Programme, 70 percent, 30 percent. Since there are six months of data related to 2020, I give an example of 2019. The budget is 95% urbanism, 5 per cent environmental policies, Mr. Secretary. The fight against climate crisis is not just the Department of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, it has to be a state policy. You, the Ministry, need to coordinate all ministries. The Minister of Energy and Natural Resources arrived here, a few days ago, and he submitted a budget here; he mentioned two carbon reductions, climate crisis, and in both, we will reduce carbon emissions by nuclear power plant. Dear friends, nuclear power plants are not zero emissions, which is not clean and green energy. We have not forgotten the dangers of this, nor have we forgotten Chernobyl, nor have we forgotten Fukushima. 200,000 people died in Chernobyl alone, 100,000 children were born crippled in Chernobyl. It rained on the Black Sea, and it rained on those radioactive clouds, and the Black Sea human is still at risk of cancer because of that nuclear power plant explosion. So, if you're going to make a reduction policy, you have to get out of the coal, the Minister of Energy hasn't said a word about coal here. So building a nuclear power plant doesn't reduce your emissions, even if it keeps your emissions where they are, even if there's zero emissions, so there's no policy there either. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has two swallowing fields; one is marine ecosystems, fresh water ecosystems, wetlands; the other is forests. Minister of Forestry, Agriculture and Forest Minister said in 2019 that by reducing forest imports, we will close a billion-dollar current deficit with forest production.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0129par0415	We heard it, we heard it, he wrote it, he wrote it!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0128par0416	You, about the wetlands... look, there's no Seyfe Lake, you know, that Nasrettin Hoxha stole the yeast into the lake, there's no Akşehir Lake, there's no Burdur Lake, there's no lakes.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0130par0417	There's no Eber Lake.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0128par0418	There's nothing to be done at the wetlands. You will first contain the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. And as if that wasn't enough, he had two regulations in a week.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0130par0419	You dried up, dried up the lakes, dried up the country!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0128par0420	Look, there's no climate change by adding something to the Ministry's name about climate change. You have to be able to coordinate all the ministries first. How are you going to add climate crisis to the national education policy, national education curriculum? Is this the kind of trouble the Home Office has, in the near future, where we're going to face climate refugees? No. More recently, while the world's heart was beating in Glasgow, at the United Nations Climate Summit, the President arrived, where at the opening of the building of the EPDK: "We will not leave the room for those who try to stop our energy movement," he said. No, we won't leave the square to you. First, the environment means home, my friends. Homeland is not an abstract concept. You, if you don't protect your country's forests, if you don't protect its lakes, seas, mountains, you don't protect it. Then don't go out here and bullshit us like we're citizens, we're locals, we're nationals.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0131par0423	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0128par0424	You may have put energy policies at the top of your political agenda, you may have put the rant policies at the top of your political agenda, city policy at the top of our agenda, Mr. Secretary, there's sustainable life at the top of our agenda. Look, you can't fight the climate crisis, we fight the climate crisis. You are under the guardianship of the court, and you are in no position to act on your own as the Ministry, Mr. Secretary, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0131par0426	Mr. Hasan Baltacı. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0132par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Today we will discuss the budgets of the four ministries, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the Ministry of Family and Social Services for 2022. We've discussed the budget in the Plan and Budget Commission for 22 days, and we've been seeing each other for six days at the Assembly General Assembly. First of all, we have a fundamental contradiction to solve. In the ministry's presentations, what I see is that they're talking about a country -- the country they're talking about -- there's justice, there's economy, there's production and jobs booming, people from neighbouring countries are flocking here to work, women and children living in peace and security, in education, in health, in tourism, in culture, whatever field you can think of -- the country has jumped the age, the world's glint, and so on and so forth. Now, dear friends, my dear country, the contradiction is that either these ministers aren't the minister of this country or the country they're talking about is not this country. When they get here, they either tell stories, stories, provocations, or insults. How? Look, I'll tell you: Minister of Family and Social Services, Mr. Derya Yanık, in the budget presentation, said that drug use risk and drug abuse education are being organised. So far, 871,132 people have been given awareness training. You don't even know about drug dealers in your own Ministry.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0133par0434	What kind of language is that? What kind of language is that? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0134par0435	How do you know? Where did you hear from?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0132par0436	If we hadn't explained it, you wouldn't have known about the drug dealer in your Kastamon County Directorate. Who are you teaching awareness to? Your municipality in Malatya was used as a drug warehouse, and you don't know it. (CHP applause) You're so cut off from the facts that as the killings of women increase daily, your Minister says: "The murders of women are at a tolerance level."
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0133par0437	A little respect! A little respect for this woman!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0132par0438	And who determines this level, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0135par0439	You'll find out, you'll find out!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0132par0440	Look, you know what the other one said?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0135par0441	Learn, learn!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0132par0442	According to his man, according to the level of advocacy, he said that nature and environmental enemy projects are not Derek's, or do you know what Environmental and Urban Minister Murat Kurum came up from the Kaz Mountains to Tizdere, from Northern Forests to Northern Istanbul, as if he didn't live in this country? "Ecology," he said, "the green corridor." With the garbage that Turkey imports, it's not like it's a European trash can, the Minister says, "Zero waste," he says, "Emission," he says, "It's justice." (CHEERING) People are running out of time to lay down and roll. While there are still 6 million, 446 thousand households in this country, with no home of its own, living in rent, spending more than half of its minimum wage on rent, electricity, water, gas bills, and 2.1 million households without social benefits, Mr. Minister said, "We are going to make insist on building a nation's garden. This is where the nation is getting rich from the construction of its gardens, while you insist on living in the Lale Devri, while the nation is condemned to live in the Stone Age. Look, this country has struggled with fires and floods this year. We lost our lives; the survivors lost their homes, their businesses. You wrote here, you wrote, "Rize, Giresun, Castamon, Sinop and Bartın, 2,248 dwellings, 220 villages, 132 businesses, and 5 teahouses. You never mentioned that even though the rights were collected, the victims would be in debt, they would own a house.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0136par0446	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0132par0447	You've never mentioned that the cost of doing things in disaster zones has been distributed to supporters at higher prices. Don't worry, they're all here, we'll explain them one by one. But remember, whatever causes the flood to become a disaster, the same causes that turn the disaster into a tender score are plunder, plunder, rants. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, as a result, what I see in these budget talks is that there are two possibilities -- as I said in the beginning -- either these ministers are not the Minister of this country or the country they're talking about is not this country.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0137par0450	Or you're not a citizen of this country.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0132par0451	Now, we need to resolve this contradiction, dear friends, my dear country. There is another option: to change this corrupt order, to build a hundred years of labor, of sweat, of justice. Well, we're going to make that choice in power.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0138par0453	Mr. Vecdi Gündüz...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0139par0455	Mr. President, members of parliament, what we're discussing, of course, is a full AKP budget, a non-profit budget for the farmer, the shopkeeper, the pensioner, the worker. This budget, believe me, is the foreign merchant budget. If you don't show a farmer, my problems will be solved with this budget. In the 40s, the sunflower that stirs the sweat of fertile land in Babaeski, is not at all the budget of our wheat farmer. This is not a budget that has reduced the farmer's gas by 110 per cent in the last year, and its increasing fertilizer by 500 per cent. So, in this budget, my problems will be resolved. Can you show a worker, a worker, who says, "This budget will solve my problems?" You can't because you don't. Is there a worker in Lüleburgaz who works in factories at night, who is on the road to provide for his child, who produces with callous hands? I'm afraid not. So, are there tradesmen? There's no tradesman. I look at it, and there's not a single shopman in the 40s, who's opened up his business with a tyrant in his marketplace, who's trying to pay off his bond-worship, his insurance, his taxes, his debt, his rent. When we look at it in its unique geography, is there anything that would say, "Stop the life-threatening longoes, Istranca, after the dirty industry of the fertile land"? I'm afraid that's not there either. Is this a budget that abandons rant-oriented policies in the fight against the climate crisis and dominates climate justice? I'm afraid not. When I look in the visa, in Pınarhisar, in Pehlivanköy, in Demirköy, in Kofçaz, I will find prosperity and wealth in this budget. You have no God. It's a budget that buys from the poor and only gives to the rich, so it's the nation's poverty budget. What's he saying, Erdogan? We wrote the book of economics. That's right, it's gone, it's written there, but you know what it says? With Erdogan's superior efforts, our national money lost 39 per cent in three months against dollars, 36 per cent against Bulgarian leva, 36 per cent against Pakistani rupee. Not in three years, not five, but in 90 days. Now, when we look at it, I want to remind you that Erdogan, who wrote the book of economics on May 7, 2018, had promised citizens, people, people: "Indeed interest, inflation and the current will fall open, and the standard of life of the small-income will rise." Didn't he say that? He did. So, what was the dollar you promised three and a half years ago? It was 4,27. Where's the dollar now? It's up to 14. When he promised, the interest was 11.25 percent. So where's the interest now? 15 percent. Inflation was 7 percent. Where is he now? It's up to 21 percent. We now say Erdogan deserved the economy Nobel Prize, my friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, now, what do they say? There are outside forces, economic survival war. As usual, they create virtual enemies to hide their incompetence. Come out, brother, and tell the citizen without fear, who are those external forces, who are we at war with? If there is an enemy who has driven away the dollar, and has made it poor, and has caused it to fall into the breadlines, go forth and do it. If you are unable to do so, then it is an honor to ask forgiveness of duty and piety. (Applause from CHP rows) 21st percent of inflation, says TÜİK, is three times the difference between real inflation and TÜİK (inflation in turn). To lower inflation is to seize the rights of 30 million employees, 12 million pensioners, widows and orphans. It is called the Eater of Truth (i.e. Paradise). Is it the outside forces that give away the rights of our citizens? So let them go forth, and let them know their friend and their enemy, and act according to their station. For twenty years, those who have called justice were brought to justice, to happy minorities, to oppressors, to citizens; and those who have said, "Don't move, to the people of the palace, to the people of the city, to the poor. There will be no despair, my dear people. There will be no destiny of poverty. From now on, there will be days of prosperity and public life.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0140par0461	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0139par0462	The day is the day when the oppressor is terrified, the faces of the people are smiling, the hopes are green, the footsteps of the Republican People's Party are heard. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0140par0465	Mr. Polat Sharoglu, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0141par0467	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have created a black picture of our country's nature of the Ranta-based environmental policies that have been implemented during the 19-year EC PARTY administrations, and this has had difficult consequences to compensate for on its natural habitat. In the meantime, the AK PARTI government has allowed tourism facilities to be established on wild mining and forest areas, importing garbage from abroad, importing it from our streams, importing its garbage from abroad, importing it from the country, instead of improving the state's environment, protecting the environment's health and preventing pollution. In a period when nature was presented as a meta as a way out of the economic crisis and the capital was unrestrictedly opened to looting and plundering, mountains, streams, valleys were opened to investments and agricultural land was destroyed. For years, politics based on the construction sector have been under the influence of the country's destruction process, from east to west, from coast to west, especially due to energy policies and unregulated mining enterprises that have produced negative results, especially with HES. As a result of this black picture, the farmland, which was 26 million, 579 thousand hectares in 2002, is now reduced to about 23 million hectares today. Likewise, in the last 15 years, the number of farmers in our country has decreased by 50 percent. Forest spaces the size of 7.391 hectares have been opened to mining, energy, tourism, and for non-forestational purposes. In 2005, Turkey imported 8,000 tonnes of plastic waste, while in 2020 it increased to 750 thousand tonnes, and Turkey became a waste collection zone. Due to wild mining and energy projects, many species of plants and animals in our country are in danger of extinction. The Red List, prepared by the International Union for Nature Protection, contains hundreds of species that are in danger of extinction in Turkey. Among these creatures are mountain goats, considered sacred by the people of Tunceli. As it is known, Tunceli is a very rich region in geographical structure, vegetation and wildlife, but in recent years, our province of Tunceli has been targeted for destruction projects that threaten the nature and life of the AKP government. In the event that recent public mining projects and hunting activities will not cease, it will cause irreversible destruction on endangered wildlife and ecological balance. In the past few weeks, a mining company has launched search operations in our province of Ovacık, but businesses have been withdrawn from the region on the reaction and initiatives of the locals. In the same way, our country has become a region of hunting in the last few days. In the faith of the people of the region, we cannot accept the slaughter of any living creature that we stand for, especially the sacred mountain goats. Look, just a few days ago in our Chemisgek district, these visions of violence took place. That's how these innocent, defenseless creatures are slaughtered by the furious villains. If there is no deterrent punishment, this scene of violence will continue to take place. I, the voice of the Tunceli people here, invite the authorities to be sensitive and take responsibility. I want to make it clear once again: stop these massacres and don't touch our holy ones. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, as of this point, our country is on the brink of a precipice for false economic policies carried out by the EC PARTY government. With the dollar skyrocketing, the loss of value in TL, our citizens who are rapidly retreating, economically sinking, have been abandoned to their fate. With the so-called war on salvation, the palace administration, which invites people to tighten the belt, continues to invest in feeding a group of supporters. On the other hand, by billing the public for the bitter prescription, he condemned the nation to live below the age of starvation. Although the palace's institution is trying to create an imaginary painting with false numbers, its debt to the bank and the pursuit of executions continue to grow exponentially. As of this point, there are 23 million files in the executive offices.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0142par0472	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0141par0473	The tradesman is miserable. SME debt to banks exceeds 1 trillion. So what I'm saying is that your dreams and the reality of the country don't match; even though the economy has grown, it will fly. The country's agenda is hunger, misery, tomorrow's anxiety. I'm afraid we see this in all the provinces we've been to. Sadly, our people are now trying to survive by gathering food from the garbage. Just the other day, in one of our provinces, we gave a pathetic witness. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, in this budget, which is the AK PARTI classic, we see that the court continues to spend its tax collections on public waste, on political objectives. Because there are no workers in this budget, no farmers, no pensioners, no producers, no laborers, no hard work, no law, no justice. But there's no room for despair over all this negativity. In Turkey, the wind of change has begun to blow, and we call this budget no for a future that is worthy of sharing and honoring human beings. It's on its way.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0143par0478	Dear Metin Ilhan, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0144par0480	Mr. President, the government's 2022 Year Budget Proposal is extremely inadequate to increase growth and prosperity, given the negativeness of the global economic crisis that deepens with the pandemic. Therefore, 3.77% of the Central Management Budget Proposal for the Ministry of Family and Social Services is unfortunately very low. Dear lawmakers, our country's disabled citizens are 10 per cent of the population, while only 1.6 per cent of the 2022 budget is earmarked for practices related to disabled people. In addition, the government is seeking to cut their salaries and even cut their salaries by reducing rates in reports given to disabled citizens while the disability pensions are very low. Because I'm a medical doctor, our disabled citizens are constantly bringing this problem to my side and desperately waiting for a solution, but as for the notorious interest lobby, which the government supposedly opposes, we see that the government has no plan and no effort to save interest payments that are essential in the 2022 budget. Dear lawmakers, the government's policies towards women have unfortunately been regressed. Being out of the Istanbul Convention has no moral, civilized, conscientious and legal dimension, nor can it be. The rise in women's violence in our country is known to everyone, and the main reason for all negative discrimination, including the mobing of our women in social life and working life, is that we are very backward in education and women's employment. The fact that in the 19 years of AKP rule, the increase in women's violence cases has not been reduced in early marriages, that women are not positioned fair in business and social life reveals the fact that it is impossible to overcome this problem with this head. Look, we also have a family structure that's growing from day to day. Government staffs are constantly talking about the importance of the Turkish family structure. So, with the number of child workers approaching 2 million, when child abuse can't be avoided, the victims of begging on the streets can't be solved, the age of use can't be reached in the fight against drug declines, while the basic economic problems that cause divorces can't be eliminated, and what kind of family structure can we talk about while the current problems of our disabled children exist? (HPP) Unfortunately, the money left from the budget of 2022 to protect and strengthen the family is around 90 lira per household. And while our Minister of Health is here, I'd like to make it very clear that the economic problems that the doctor, the midwife, the nurse, the pharmacist, the technician, the technician, the laborant and so-called health workers, who have had to call myself for days to deliver their economic problems, without any distinction, are in the debt of this House's neck. In other news, I would also like to say that a significant number of our workers working under subcontractors under the Kırşehir Highways County Directorate have reached my side of the information that their contracts have not been renewed and that they are in danger of being laid off in such an economic crisis. I warn the Kayseri Regional Directorate officials who have failed to complete the tender proceedings from the council bench, do not even think about providing savings through the labor of the worker in the time of the economic crisis. Otherwise, you'll pay very hard. As a result, all these problems are being ignored and unresolved by the AKP government, which has driven our country into deep poverty. When it's a place of fire, the ruling staff who try to demagoji themselves with a proprietary suit, but they're not really going to be able to get inside the citizen, will now live in the so-called reputation of the palace, and see how far and how alien they are to their own society. We're always in the fields. Every time I listen to our citizens in Kırşehir, my constituency, they ask me, "Where are the ruling representatives and their rulers?"
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0145par0489	They're going for a ride with you?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0144par0490	Remember, you have only a year and a half left to escape from our high-profile, saintly nation. But you, the people who have put this heavy price on our country, for a lifetime, both in your conscience and...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0146par0492	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0144par0493	...you will be condemned to the conscience of the great Turkish nation, so you may know it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I would like to end my words by saying that this budget, which does not contain justice, justice, production, innovation and change, will not be able to solve our problems, but by renewing my belief in the good times, like any citizen of the Republic of Turkey, that we will be able to reach together in solidarity and hope. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0147par0498	Mr. Ali Fazil Butcher...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0148par0499	(Kütahya MP Ali Fazil Kırbaş speaking sign language) [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Secretary, my fellow lawmakers, our ministry is called the Ministry of Family and Social Services. Mr. Secretary, we're dealing with a ministry that doesn't think about disabled people. I just told you something, but you probably didn't get it either. We have three million deaf citizens who are listening to us right now, excuse me, who can't listen, and you can't understand them. For the past three years, I've been saluting in sign language for the third time, trying to create this perception, but you're coming here as Minister, and we don't have nearly 3 million citizens to understand us right now, and it's your responsibility, Mr. Secretary. I think one of the biggest obstacles to the disabled is your Ministry. (CHP applauses) Because you can't do a right-based -- not a need, not a need-based structure -- it's a problem because you perceive people as needy. It's a constitutional right, it's a necessity, but unfortunately, you're not. So, what have you guys been up to? Look, this budget is already around 700 billion dollars, and since it's been in the House, this budget has melted 40 percent. Your share of this budget is very low, but you're on the way here to increase the need. You have 6,300,000 homes being distributed, and about 20 million people are now below the poverty line. Mr. Secretary, as I've told you before, what you're doing to our poor and needy citizens is not beyond the fact that it's not a right based on the perception of poverty and that it's individual, and you don't want to pass, but what are you doing? I don't know how much it's changed today, but at $20 a day, $30 a day, you're spending a month on the disabled, and how right is that? Can you make a living with these fees? Can you get a disabled person to move on? No way. But what did you do on the other side, Mr. Secretary? For the past three years, I've been saying over and over in this House, Mr. Secretary, that this has been confirmed by your relevant agencies, who don't deserve 422,000 people, who don't have a disability report, who have also been asked to ask a question from CIMER. You can't account for $11.6 billion, as of this year, given to 442 thousand people, one penny at a time. You accept this, and this -- you're a lawyer, Mr. Secretary, you've erased $697 billion in money, which is impossible to erase in terms of public purchase, but you've deleted it, Mr. Secretary; it's in your answer, and it's in this year's Court reports, $697 billion. This crime is a very serious crime. You're a lawyer, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, what did you do from the other side? Look, I have a report, and the report says that the patient can't stand up, can't take care of himself, can't use the upper extremity, can't use the lower extremity. There are hundreds of reports about it that have reached me, and I can give you the original. He says: "He's a partial addict." Ya, he's on a stretcher, Mr. Secretary, and you still don't keep him on a monthly basis.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0149par0505	Congressmans, let's have our talks with the General Assembly. The ministers will not vote in the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0148par0506	Thank you. I don't want the Minister's vote, and you don't need to interfere, and I know what to say, Mr. President. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, you know, it's supposed to be right-based. I'll tell you what you'll understand: Let the Ten Servants of Allah wait for the ten spoils, Nine for one, one for nine. You know who made my cab.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0150par0513	If that's what you've learned, it's a blessing!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0148par0514	Now, I'd like to take a note from here to history, dear friends. With Allah's permission and the blessing of our beloved nation... he's coming, and we're going to do all the medical supplies, equipment and treatments that are mandatory for the disabled in our power to participate in social life. (Applause from the ranks of the disabled will be removed from all supplies such as automobiles, phones, computers.) There'll be disability appointments, it's mandatory. We'll remove the obstacles in your work life. We will place disability pensions and care benefits on the rights of disabled individuals, not on the basis of need, but on the basis of rights, on the constitutional right. It's not needy, it's entitled people. We'll get the disabled involved in the management process. We're also going to solve problems in health care that are getting gangrene.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0151par0516	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0148par0517	Mr. President, we're going to solve all problems with accessibility. Dear friends, remember, there are 2 ministries side by side, you can't solve problems with the disabled health system, you can't provide integration in disabled health reports. Two ministers are very close, and the Ministrys are a mile and a half; you haven't been able to regulate disability health reports in three years, and I'll tell you this in the end: this is what I say after inadequate and incompetent staffs: it's coming.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0151par0519	Mr. Candan eseer, here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0152par0521	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the budget of the esteemed MPs, the Ministry of Family and Social Services, and I salute the General Assembly. This is the second budget in pandemic conditions. Because of the economic crisis and the consequences of the epidemic that you've been in for two years, we'd have to wait for those who are unemployed, who are without a job, who are burdened with violence, who are burdened with the plague, who are neglected and abused, who are forced to work, and who are victims of job killings, who are even more difficult to live in pandemic conditions, who are disabled, pensioners, seniors, and the 3600 additional indicators that you hope for, and the hundreds of thousands of public employees, who are in the trouble of this budget, you see, but that's not what you want to worry about. Your problem is your power, your wealth, your problems, your friends, your contractors, your allies, who you can't afford to feed or feed. (CHP applause) You're still living in luxury, handing out taxes from citizens. Dear lawmakers, the 2022 budget will pay $42 billion to the contractors, guarantees will be paid, at least 240 billion of this budget will go to the lenders. It's a good thing you're against interest, but what if you're not against interest? The Ministry of Family and Social Services budget is 66 billion, 131 million liras. So about four times that budget is reserved for women, children, disabled people, not social services, but a handful of loan sharks. We don't say that this budget is the budget of your ally, the lender, the court. While this is being done, the budget presentation is said to continue to promote prosperity in all parts of society, as a joke. Now, the money spent on the palace's electricity bill alone is equivalent to 22 million liras for the Women's Status General Directorate, the only national mechanism for developing women's policies. Now, how in God's name are you going to spread this prosperity by transferring more than 42 million women into the palace's light, its glitter? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let alone other ministries, even the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services; even the budget of disadvantaged groups, the ministry that should be looking after women's rights, is an insensitive budget, a lack of conscience, an unfair budget. Every day, thousands of women get violent, one gets slaughtered, we have 149 women's guesthouses capable of 3,624, and we aim to increase only one per year. We're not planning to increase it. We have 1,195 children's homes, and we're not planning to increase that. We do not make our children a day care centre, but we leave them in the arms of congregations and sects. In fact, the message given to women, children, disadvantaged individuals in this budget is very clear, they say: "We don't care about you. And we have no intention of protecting you. Take care of yourself. Now, violence doesn't end when you say "no tolerances" in violence, as the mouth doesn't taste. How do we prevent discrimination, violence against women without investing, implementing laws, increasing national mechanisms? While women are being murdered in spite of their protection and judicial decisions, children of the size of the hand are getting married, while we remove gender equality from their plans for development, ignore the budget for gender-sensitiveness, and reverse the rights earned and avoid violence and discrimination overnight, will we do so by exiting the Istanbul Convention, which says, "Let there be no violence and discrimination?" [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, the Istanbul Convention was proudly signed by all lawmakers, and the entire administration, including Mr. Secretary, was defended as strongly as possible by the women's lawmakers until yesterday, but in one night when one person signed this contract, everyone was silent. What's happened, what's changed, violence over in our country, for God's sake? The administration's impotence, silence, and unequivocal laws, unfortunately, encourage these dark mentalitys, murderers, rapists. We've seen this example again in the case of Silk Er last week. In his letter before he died, Silk Er wrote: "I was raped by Moses Orhan. He pulled me out of my hair, he dragged me on the floor, but he said to me: "No one will believe you, nothing will happen to me, you are unclaimed."
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0153par0531	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0152par0532	And on December 3rd, the court justified the rapist, showed that the women of this country were ignored by the judiciary, and Orhan was given a reduction in the idea that there would be a negative impact on his future, and he wasn't arrested, so the court was concerned about the future of the rapist, not the end of his life. Dear lawmakers, unless these decisions are carried out, I'm afraid violence against women does not end as long as this punishment goes up. In fact, you have an invention called the bag of law -- which you use for lots of rants, for your followers -- why don't you use a bag once for these women, for these laws? Why don't you use it? It won't be easy to get out of the Istanbul Convention because there are millions of women fighting for equality, fighting for rights, fighting for equality and justice. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This contract will live and live!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0154par0538	Your time is up, Mr. Houser.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0152par0539	And this budget will remain the last budget the AKP government has made for this country's citizens, its inequality, poverty, injustice.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0155par0540	You've been saying the same thing for 19 years, 19 years, come on in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0154par0541	Your Honor, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0152par0542	And for the right, for the people who are coming, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0156par0544	It's not hopeless, it's true.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0154par0545	Mr. Ünal Demirtaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0157par0547	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Secretary, when your budget was submitted to Parliament on October 15th, the $9.17 was worth $190 billion in dry dollars. Today, $13.90 went down from dry to $126 billion, so before your budget went through the House, $33.3 per cent, so $65 billion, evaporated and became a bitch. The public budget has evaporated at least 50 percent. Mr. Secretary, in your 20 years of power, you've been unable to solve any problems in working and working life, but these problems have continued to deepen. Look, it's broadly defined, so real unemployment was 22.8 per cent, even according to the make-up TİK data released yesterday, so now 8,281,000 people are unemployed. In Europe, we are the first 3 · Global Voices in unemployment; you still haven't been able to solve unemployment. Unregistered employment is 18 percent of the OECD average. And we have the highest rate of OECD with 30 percent off the record, so 9 million of our employees are off the record, and you still haven't been able to figure out what's off the books. Six workers die every day in business accidents. By November alone this year, 1,853 workers and 28,000 workers have died in business accidents in the last 19 years. Our country has been the first in Europe in business accidents for years, the third in the world, and you have yet to prevent business accidents. Child labor continues to increase. In our country, even according to make-up TİK data, we now have 720,000 child workers, whereas the real number is 2 million. Our children have to work instead of going to school, and I'm afraid you couldn't prevent child labor, Mr. Secretary. Five million, and you still haven't retired the old man in retirement. In 2020, you broke the republic's historical record with 69 billion in the last 19 years and 446 billion in the last 19 years. The active passive ratio of the SGK was 2.4 in 1999, when Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our chairman, was 1,69. Unfortunately, there are 1.7 workers per pensioner in our country, and you can't figure that out. The unionisation rate in our country is 14 per cent and the collective contract ratio is 2.78. Turkey is also unfortunately the latest in union rights and freedoms among 38 OECD countries. You still can't remove the obstacles to union rights and freedoms. Mr. Secretary, 13,500,000 pensioners in our country are becoming poorer and poorer. Turkey is among the poorest countries to retire in the world, according to ILO (ILO) data in September 2021. Under the minimum salary of 8 million pensioners, 2 million BUG-KUR pensioners receive under a thousand liras. Today, a worker's pension is 1,500 euros, or 95 euros, for a minimum wage, while a pensioner in Germany receives 1,000 euros, which is 10 times as much as ours. Today, unfortunately, 6 million pensioners have to work because they can't even meet their basic needs; even at 73 years old, there are pensioners who have to work so that they don't starve, and some pensioners try to live by collecting rotten fruits and vegetables at the end of the market. Look, the German pensioners who are jealous of us are on vacation on their cruise, while our pensioners are forced to work until they die so they don't starve. (Applause from CHP rows) Mr. Secretary, the minimum pension must come to a minimum salary; you must pay the pensioners at least $2,500; at least our pension must go on vacation in Antalya. The minimum wage is the largest collective contract in our country because there are 10 million workers who receive minimum wage and around it; the percentage of minimum wage workers in Europe is 5 per cent, while we have 60 per cent, so the minimum wage has become our average wage. The minimum wage has melted down in the last five years against currency; see, the minimum wage is $430 in 2016, while it is now reduced to $203, dear friends.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0158par0557	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0157par0558	In the last five years, $227 a month has been vaporized from the pocket of minimum wage, dear friends. Look, even the Chinese worker gets $360, and our employee gets $203. We've fallen behind even China at minimum wage, dear friends. Turkey is also last in Europe at this minimum wage. Look, we're jealous of Germany's minimum wage of 1,585 euros, while our minimum wage net of 183 euros is only available. The German can charge nine times as much as our minimum wage. From January to today, bread, milk, sugar... look, look at these numbers, I'd like to say with all due respect to 64 percent sugar, 96 percent sunflower oil, 80 percent up in the tube, and 2022. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit02spe0158par0561	Thank you, Mr. Demirtaş, your time is up. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0158par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. Yes, we've come to the Justice and Development Party Group for their speech requests on behalf of the groups. First word, Mr. Arife Polat. Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0159par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget for 2022 of the Ministry of Health. I salute our High Council and our fellow citizens, who are watching us on the screens. Dear lawmakers try to offer their citizens the best health care in a sustainable way with the implementation of the EC PARTY government's health transformation programme. There have been very important reforms witnessed by 84 million, and we are the most comprehensive health care provider. Health reform has been implemented in my lifetime as a doctor. Despite what they say is unsustainable, despite our global epidemic, we have the pride of providing the best quality of health care for our citizens in such an uninterrupted way as the first day. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, there have been significant increases in health in human power during our time of power. In 2002, the total number of health workers in the public population was 256,000, while the number was 737,000, or 3. I'm still hoping that during this pandemic period, we'll be able to achieve OECD targets by increasing those numbers with health care workers waiting to be employed. For the past two years, we've been afraid of going to hospitals, and we've even left the patients we're worried about taking our covid positive relatives to the hospital to our medical army. We've also lost medics in pandemide who've done all kinds of maintenance and healing for our patients. Many were sick, but they got better and went back to work and supported their patients with their own sick stories. I give them all my deepest respect. When we look at the basic health indicators, we see significant improvements. Life expectancy has risen from 72 to 78.6 years. 98% of births are now made in hospitals, and all birth hospitals are baby-friendly hospitals. Of course, the important thing is not to be sick. It is much more important to be able to teach healthy life, to make a habit of it, to have early diagnostic screening programs. The newborns now have one form of scanning before the transformation. The budget shows that the source transferred to protective health care has increased by 103 percent. Precious lawmakers will be able to benefit from SMA screenings, pre-marital, hereditary blood disease scans, married couples, as well as couples who are still married, and couples who have children, so that they can avoid the long-standing SMA disease. Support will also be provided for the carrier couples who are identified at the time needed to have healthy children. I will always continue to follow as a medical proxy the work we witnessed during the Pandemic period of our doctors, our medics, to stop violence in health, to reduce working hours, to improve wages. We believe that our Minister will be able to make a living in society, as he stated in his budget talks. In addition to measures taken to stop violence in health, our minister said that the X-ray device was being installed in health care institutions and primarily in emergency services to increase security measures. I wish this would become common. The Turkish Grand National Assembly said there were difficulties in supplying drugs at the Rare Disease Research Commission. For this to be arranged, I'd like both of our Ministry to join hands and work it out. Dear lawmakers, what's important to us is that during the Covid pandemic, our intensive care rates have been increased. According to OECD data, we are now the country with the highest intensive care bed in the ICU. Two 1,000-bed hospitals were built in Istanbul, and you all know it. And I'd like to talk about this year's best apps, the e-napsic system developed by the Ministry of Health. 55 million of our citizens are using it easily, and they make our lives easier, and I would like to remind you that 112 emergency numbers are being collected on one line, and that you can now download 112 emergency buttons into your phones and receive emergency services from everywhere. I'd like to talk to you about something else that I know is in the best interest of our Ministry of Health.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0160par0018	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0159par0019	We know that our Ministry of Health is trying to increase its domestic and national production, as in the example of our defence industry in the medical equipment and medicine industry, and we want them to increase. We don't want health care tied abroad in the supply chain. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our Ministry of Health's budget to be a blessing and to thank all those who have done all the work and to bring it to a healthy generation.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0160par0022	Mr. Ismail Sun... Mr. Sun, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0161par0025	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health. I salute you and my beloved nation who watch us on the screens. The Covid-19 pandemic, which began in 2019 and affected the world, has infected about 270 million people, and has killed more than 5 million people because of this disease. In some countries, including economically developed countries, we have witnessed that there have been major setbacks in health care, while in some countries, those who have no money have not been able to reach health care, and those who have no place in intensive care in some countries have left their elderly to die or to their own destiny. In our country, alhamdulillah, under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has been tried to survive with little loss due to massive investments in health in the EC PARTI rulings, massive change in health and transformation, our experienced and selfless health workers and social security coverings covering 84 million. Full support for vaccine development has also been tried to prevent the spread of the disease by being included in countries that are making the fastest inoculations. I'd like to thank all of our dedicated health workers and public staff for this process. I wish mercy from God to our health workers and our citizens who have died because of this illness, and my condolences to their relatives and to our nation. By implementing change and transformation in health care in all areas, the primary and protective health care system has been transitioned from the doctor's system to the family medicine system, where there is not enough examination rooms, to which doctors can't work actively and the entire population can't be controlled, to which each physician has his own examination room and is responsible for a certain population. The rights of family physicians have been improved by raising the budget to foster health care. In infants, hearing, hyperethroidia, biotinidase deficiency, cystic fibrosis, and congenital adrenal hyperplasia scans have been performed in newborns for early diagnosis of pre-diagnosed diseases. The vaccine, developed in babies and children, has been achieved by over 95 per cent, and the goal of the World Health Organization has been exceeded. As a result of change in health and transformation, the baby's mortality rate has been reduced from 31.5 to 8.5. The mother's death rate has been reduced from 64 to 13.1. Healthy living centers of our age have been increased both in numbers and in service to protect ourselves from illness and to ensure healthy aging. A key stage in fighting smoking is the ban on smoking in closed spaces, and it has been tried to help our citizens by applying free drugs at non-smoking clinics. With home care, both the patient's blessing and the burden of our hospitals have been reduced. Dear lawmakers, as for emergency health care, recently when a pregnant woman is in labor, she and her wife head out in their own car, whose cars break down within a mile of the hospital, and the weather is quite cold. They call an ambulance service, ambulance service says they can take them to the hospital for $1,000. The couple don't come to the ambulance because they don't have money, so the pregnant woman has to walk to the hospital in that cold weather. Dear MPs, do you know where this country is? This is the United States of America, which has $65,000 per capita income. Now, to emergency health care in Turkey. The number of ambulances in emergency health care has been changed and converted, and the number of ambulances has been increased to 5.946, regardless of whether there is social security for our citizens and visitors from outside the country in emergency situations, even in urban areas, and even in rural areas in 30 minutes, and even in need, helicopter ambulances, aircraft ambulances, marine ambulances are offered to the public service. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In our country, our per capita health expenditure is slightly above and beyond the scope of our services, and is free of charge, according to the developed countries. This shows the importance of the AK PARTI power, led by our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to our citizens. As for the esteemed lawmakers, as a radical change to hospitals in 2005 was transferred to the Ministry of Health, the new standards for hospitals were developed, each physician was given a new clinic room, and physicians were given the opportunity to work more effectively and efficiently, and on the other hand, patient-employee satisfaction, as the patient rights unit was established. In hospitals, the ward system has been moved from qualified room system to intensive care, raising the number of beds from 869 to 24,000...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0162par0039	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0161par0040	The number of intensive care beds for 100,000 people is 39.7, and the OECD and the U.S. average. The Guest Mother Project has been implemented so that pregnant people with no place to stay or postpartum babies can stay in a comfortable environment for mothers in the hospital, and the National Bone marrow Bank of Turkey has been implemented. The e-pulp system used by 55 million has avoided unnecessary tests. The most important investments, of course, have been a total of 3,821 facilities in the last 19 years, including a hospital of 715, an additional building of 393, oral and dental care. There have been six city hospitals in the General Budget, 13 city hospitals in cooperation with public-private partnerships, and we will continue to do so. Here, of course, the opposition gives false information; there is not only rent in these fees. The operation of this, the cleaning staff there, the food staff, and on the other hand...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0163par0044	Thank you, Mr. Sun, your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0161par0045	I hope our health department budget is a blessing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0164par0047	They're all called service fees, Mr. Deputy... all under the name of service.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0163par0048	Mr. Mustafa Esgin, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0165par0050	Mr. President, I'll begin by welcoming our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Throughout the history of the Republic of Turkey, important steps have been taken in health care. In the early 2000s, however, health was among Turkey's most important problems. Again, therefore, health has been one of the most important issues of EC PARTY power. The model we call Transformation in Health has some important headlines. First of all, the first step has reorganised health care. Step one, we went to the world's destination in health care, and we implemented the family medicine system. Step two, we've brought health care under one roof in the Ministry of Health organization, and we've given health guidance. We've divided social security reform from health service presentation and financing. With general health insurance, we've raised the entire community under social security umbrellas. We've established an efficient, efficient, accessible, financially sustainable, modern system. Dear friends, at the end of all of this, there are some points of characterization that we need to consider when we need to make an assessment, and health indicators are at the top of it. If we've reduced the rate of baby death, the rate of mother death, the rate of child under five years of age to five times the rate of death, and we've created a worldwide awareness, there's a success story here. If we've tripled the number of hospitals, 8 times the qualified beds, 28 times the number of intensive care beds, if that's how we've strengthened our health infrastructure, we need to talk about a success story. We are world leaders in the number of intensive care beds that fall to 100,000 people. Dear friends, we've increased the number of health workers from 300,000 to 1,240 thousand, so we've included almost a million other health workers in the system. In health, we distribute our human resources in a fair and balanced way across the country. The fact that the highest and lowest province in the population of an expert physician working at the Ministry of Health has fallen from 13 to 2 is an expression that we maintain justice among the provinces in the distribution of physicians and health workers. Another important issue is citizen's satisfaction. If we have raised the level of satisfaction to 72 percent of 39 percent of the population, it should not be ignored by anyone. Friends, it is also a sign that we are using our resources correctly as a country that provides the highest level of satisfaction according to its spending. Another title is the financial protection of our citizen and country's resources. It is also a public finance success that the GDP of our total health expenditures remains stable with all positive parameters. The reduction of our citizen's spending from 26 percent to 16 percent is an important parameter in this regard. The level of access to health is another criteria. In one year, our citizen was able to reach a physician 1.5 times, while in one year, he was able to reach a physician, which is a success. All of these evaluations are proof that we've established a successful model in health. With the support of our nation, Recep Tayyip Erdogan wrote this success story by the AK PARTI authorities led by Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Dear friends, for nearly two years, we've been going through a major test of a global epidemic all over the world. The Covid vaccine is the undisputed most important factor in preventing disease. Today, we became one of the most vaccinated countries by applying 122 million vaccines. And we're putting our local vaccine into practice after New Year's. During the Covid period, we increased intensive care capacity by almost 50%. Again, during the outbreak, we produced 10,000 domestic ventilators and serviced them and served the survival of thousands of our citizens. Dear friends, city hospitals, city hospitals... we've made 25,000 beds in three years, we've built 19 city hospitals, we're fighting to open new investments that will buy 25,000 more beds.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0166par0058	You don't know, Congressman, look, the Minister of Health is there, not 19 of them, 13 of them. You don't know about his minister's presentation.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0167par0059	Mr. Hawk, please. You're the one who decides what the Congressman is going to say, so don't.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0168par0060	You're obsessed with the number of epics we've written in health.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0169par0061	This strategic decision before Covid is an important success story, which should be appreciated, not judged. Of course you can, but... Dear friends, there have been some talks today about protective health care. Look, in 2020, from 15 billion to 2021, we've increased it to 20 billion, and we've increased it to about twice this year, and we've increased it to 38 billion. I don't understand why our friends are criticizing this here.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0170par0064	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0169par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Finally, I must say that during this difficult time, we take important steps toward all our employees and our fixed income, especially our minimum wage. In particular, not only will we applaud our heroic health workers, but we will certainly make improvements that will reflect on pay, additional payments, equity rights and pensions that will create awareness. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] First, we put our lives in the hands of God, without disturbing the peace of work. I must point out that we are behind the rights of our health workers and public employees, especially our physicians, as we call them. I want to thank our health minister, Mr. Fahrettin, for his outstanding efforts in this matter. As I end my words, I wish our budget of 2022 to be well-funded, with respect to the General Assembly and to our beloved nation.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0171par0071	Mr. Selim Gültekin. Here you go, Mr. Gültekin.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0172par0074	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the budget for Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Foundation in the 5th round of the Central Management Budget Proposal in 2022. I salute our fellow citizens, our holy nation, and the General Assembly, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0173par0075	Aksaray.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0172par0076	First of all, I'd like to express my gratitude once again to our foremost dedicated physicians, my dear colleagues, our pharmacists, our dentists, our nurses, all our heroic health workers in the outbreak of Covid-19. I ask God's mercy to our health workers and citizens who have lost their lives in the pandemic. Dear MPs, the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices, are a human-focused, scientific, internationally pioneer, reference institution. The priority task of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency is to ensure that society achieves quality, effective, safe products and to serve the community through regulatory, controlling, guiding actions. It is the institution's top priority if it is to increase our competitiveness in the global market and move our country to higher positions in the value chain for the pharmaceutical and medical equipment sector with the President's 11th Development Plan. Covid-19 has once again demonstrated that domestic production is strategicly important in health care, as in any area, especially in the sustainability of health care. Now, as Turkey, we're taking our place with the rapid movement of national technology across the world. In 2020, our imports of medical equipment were about 2.5 billion dollars, while our exports were over 1.2 billion dollars. Under the influence of domestic and national production, the medical equipment has increased import exports by more than 30 per cent in the last five years and reached 50 per cent in 2020. In 2020, our exports of medicine and pharmaceuticals increased by 27.3 per cent compared to the previous year, reaching $1.84 billion and breaking the historical record. (AK PARTY) So the record-breaking share of pharmaceutical exports has been increased to 11% in 2020 for the first time in the history of Turkish exports. Again, as a result of the study, we have also achieved a significant success by making 88 percent of every 100 canisters of medicine that we consume in our country today in our own pharmaceutical industry. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as EC PARTY, we take care of health. Under the leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our country's health budget of 2022 has increased by 49.5 per cent to 116 billion euros. In the EC PARTY period, between 2002 and 20 years, 638m euros were spent to provide the best quality health care for our Niğde in 18 years, to build new health facilities, to increase medical equipment capacity and to increase the number of qualified patients. During this period, we are also providing our new 400-bed hospital for Niğde. The construction of our hospital continues, hopefully in the early months of 2023, we will be able to provide another health facility that will respond to our city's every need. Of course we're not stopping, it's the end of our 60-unit oral and dental hospital project. By tendering this project soon, we'll begin construction in 2022. When it's finished, our new model mouth and dental hospital, which will power the health infrastructure of our Niğde, is equipped with a state-of-the-art CT and X-ray equipment, is now blessed to our beloved Nügde fellow citizens, whose O.R., emergency room, separate clinics for children and adults, will be treated for mouth and dental care. Mr. Fahrettin, I'd like to thank our husband minister and his team. I'd like to thank our Minister of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, Mr Murat Kurum. On behalf of all my fellow citizens. (AK PARTY) Our project, promised on the first page of the election brochures, said to be held for 50 years, is being renovated during this period by the TOKI and Niğde Municipality. Once again, I would like to thank Mr. President, our Precious Minister, our Governor, our AK PARTI Niğde organization and our Nüğde Mayor Emrah Özdemir, our President of Nüğde. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With the success of budgeting 20 times in a row under the leadership of Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President in our EC PARTI administration, we also have the budget of $237m planned for 2022 by the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0174par0087	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0172par0088	...the budget for 2022, which is based on investment, production and growth, of our stronger and improved Turkey, wishes good for our country and our nation. I salute our fellow citizens, our beloved nation, and our Veterans Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0174par0091	Mr. Öznur Çýk, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0175par0093	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Health for 2022. I salute you, our beloved nation, and my dear countrymen, my Malatian countrymen, who are watching us on their screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, as the EC PARTY led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, when we came to power in 2002, let the state live. We rolled up our arms and made important revolutions in every field. With our health revolutions, we've gathered all the hospitals under the roof of the Ministry of Health. We have all our citizens covered in health insurance. We said each citizen would have his own physician, and we set up a family medicine system. We've made our country a model country in the world with our health care. We've raised the number of mother-baby deaths, birth rates in health care institutions, the rates of our women, especially our pregnant women, the number of beds and intensive care beds, 112 ambulances, helicopters, ambulances, marine ambulances, health care workers to the most advanced levels in history. As a result of all these advances, we have increased the expected life expectancy of birth from 72 to 78.6. We've raised the satisfaction of health care to 72%, despite the pandemic. Mr. President, I'd like to express my deepest gratitude to our esteemed bureaucrats, our dedicated and experienced physicians, our pharmacists, our nurses, our midwives, our technicians, our ambulance drivers, our ambulance drivers, our security personnel, and, in short, our health army. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We've offered uninterrupted health care to each of 84 million of our citizens, and we continue to offer them. We also create national policies to boost the global competitiveness of our country's health industry and to bring our country to a higher position in the world's chain of pharmaceutical value. We're making Turkey a self-sufficient country in medicine, in vaccine, in medical equipment, in biotechnology and medical technology. As a result of the study, we produce 88 percent of every 100 canisters of medicine that we consume in our country today in our own pharmaceutical industry. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Again, with the President of Health Industries established within the presidency, we are opening the way for a local and powerful pharmaceutical industry, such as our local and national defence industry. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Very valuable MPs, we're just in the field of health. Even with what we've done, we've taken Turkey from its old dark days to the light. We had people held hostage in the hospital in ancient Turkey, so let no one say that it was the main opposition at first. The one who gave birth at the hospital, if he can go to the hospital...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0176par0104	Tell the main opposition, the MPP, that they were before you. What about the main opposition, we weren't...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0175par0105	There was a Turkey where the mothers who had found the possibility were held hostage and the funerals couldn't be taken from the morgue because they didn't have the money. In the new Turkey, which we have arrived in poverty, we bring it from the other side of the world and treat it with helicopters to the hospital.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0176par0106	There was MHP, we weren't there.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0177par0107	At the time, your president was the general manager, sir...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0176par0108	Then what are you bragging about? What are you bragging about when you're in health, General Manager...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0178par0109	Guys, let's just say the speaker's on the stand. Mr. Special, look, but the preacher can't speak.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0176par0111	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0179par0112	Mr. President, I'd appreciate a little extra time.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0176par0113	We will, on me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0180par0114	Why don't you guys go ahead?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0179par0115	I mean, I've never made a move...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0176par0116	Yeah, I wasn't talking to you. I said tell MHP. Let the main opposition hear. You say you got it from them, health... let the MHP respond.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0180par0117	Mr. Special, if you'll excuse me. No one interfered with your speakers. Especially as Deputy Director of the Group. Please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0179par0118	Friends, those who can't even achieve what we do, unfortunately, try to do things their own way by interrupting our words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0181par0120	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0179par0121	In the new Turkey we have arrived in poverty, we have citizens from halfway around the world that we have brought and treated, patients taken to the hospital by helicopters, pregnant women, many lives we have saved.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0181par0122	There was no fridge before you arrived.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0179par0124	However, we're going to the feet of our patients who can't make it to the hospital. We're going to our 520,000 patients' homes, we're going to their feet, we're offering health care. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) There's no viable object in public, like the state, we call it a breath of health in the state.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0182par0127	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0179par0128	We're working hard to keep one breath from fading.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0183par0129	He's being bullied, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0179par0130	For 19 years, we've had not one but a thousand breaths of health for our beloved nation. We're the ones who know our nation best, understand our nation best, worry about it, and from now on, we'll continue to cure the sick, to cure the troubled. I ask you all to put your hands on your conscience. Those with consciences place their hands on their conscience, thanking the EC PARTY and Mr. President, and doing so in 15 elections. My dear lawmakers, we built not only in health, but in all areas. Our Ministry of Family here, our Ministry of Environment here, our Ministry of Labor here, our Ministry of Health here, we've built a social state in all areas, and with our Social Security Systems, our social benefits, our social services, our social homes... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0184par0134	Give me one more minute, Mr. President, there's been a lot of teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0185par0135	I'm opening it for a bow, just for a bow.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0186par0136	Open up, Mr. President, we've taken our time.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0185par0137	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0187par0138	We built the social state in Turkey. By God's grace, my esteemed deputies, our great nation, our great nation, the Republic Alliance, will once again say to these services in 2023, and we will be on our way once again in 2023. I give thanks to our great nation, who now considers it worthy of us to budget 20 times in a row. And while the budget for 2022 is good for our country, for our nation, Malatya, including 13 counties of our county, I would like to thank our Minister of Health and all the bureaucrats, especially Mr. President, who has given us all the services and support to offer us health care to all our counties. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also pay my respects to Malatya, the capital of the city of health. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0188par0144	Mr. Şenel Seven Star. Mr. Seven Stars, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0189par0147	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY group regarding the budget for the chair of the Turkish Institutes of Health. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation and my fellow citizens of the Army.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0190par0148	The Central Army of the Nuts.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0189par0149	Congressmans, you can appreciate that everything is known for its opposite. The value of existence is in the absence, and the value of the new is in the old. So in order to show that the AK PARTY has given Turkey, I'd like to talk to you about some of the health care services of our 20-year-old AK PARTY. Before 2002, there were hospital distinctions, as if there were class distinctions. The SEC hospital, the state hospital, the university hospital, but our citizens have been able to serve in all of our hospitals, regardless of the revolutionary health projects that have been carried out with our power, including private hospitals. Before 2002, I'll have hope in the hospital queues from morning to evening, and I'll have an examination. Before 2022, our hospitals were physically unsupervised, unhygienic, ward-typed rooms, while today they had a comfort that competed with the most luxurious hotels with their hygiene, equipment, capacity, and maximum of 2, 3 people. With our practice of family medicine, we can be more aware of the health of our citizens. With our pregnancy tracking system, we were significantly ahead of mother and baby deaths. Taking medicine before 2022 is a torture for our citizens, but today the barcode system opens the door to all our pharmacies to our citizens. When it is decided to build city hospitals in our country with the vast insights and consequences of our President's decision, you are wrong, these city hospitals are unnecessary investments, they will bring a huge burden to the budget. Would you make people sick to bring them there? We now understand how accurate and appropriate our President's predictions are. As we call it during the Pandemic, our patients were not on the streets because of our city hospitals, they received intensive care. Research in the field of health and development of local health technologies have been a strategic area of national security throughout the world. In 2014, the Ministry of Health Institutes of Turkey was established to support efforts to reduce external dependence in vaccines, medicines, medical devices, diagnostic kits and other health technologies. In addition to his other duties, TUSEB has also taken on important tasks in the pandemic administration. He founded the Covid-19 diagnostic laboratory across Turkey and significantly increased our country's test capacity. He supported vaccine development projects. Among them is Turkovac, the first native of our country's Covid-19 vaccine. Thus, all processes of a vaccine were performed in Turkey from the RD phase to the product for the first time. Again, the production and commercialization of a respirator developed by a start-up-up/corporated company was supported by TSEB. In addition to exporting the local ventilator to 80 countries, it has been sent to many countries for aid. Currently, a total of 110 RD projects, including vaccines, drugs, diagnostic kits, medical equipment, biomalization, clinical research, SMA, are supported in various areas. The first national biobank of our country was established within the St. Sancar Research Center.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0191par0152	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0189par0153	Valuable lawmakers have made large investments in transport, education, health care, social services and agriculture, some of which are now being launched at Army Giresun Airport, Army Environment Road, the 17,000-capacity stadium and Army Hospital. (AK PARTY) The World Bank's $70m.0.53 interest and 30-year loan for the Bolaman Basin in our military province has been approved and approved by our President. With this loan, land roads, river reforms, flood-blocking ponds were planned to prevent the water problem. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has given our country a new vision and a new mission by acting in the way of our nation as servants. (AK PARTY) Today, those of us who have failed to perform the service of the AK PARTI in twenty years, kill him and do not eat his dues. Even if they criticize us by violating his motto...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0191par0156	Thank you, Mr. Seven Stars.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0189par0157	...we continue to walk the way we believe, to serve our nation, to carry our country to the new peaks it deserves, to do it tirelessly, tirelessly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0191par0159	Thank you, Mr. Seven Stars.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0189par0160	And I want to leave by reminding you of something.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0191par0161	Mr. Seven Star, our time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0189par0162	I'm sorry, Mr. President. Some places are confused, and Turkey's nuts are produced in the Army with 42 per cent. I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0192par0166	Dear Lütfiye Selva Pine... Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0193par0169	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change in 2022. I salute our beloved nation, our citizens, and our Veterans Assembly, who are watching us on the screens. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As you know, today is the 6th day of our budget talks, and I have listened carefully to the talks from day one, and today I have listened carefully to all our friends. Friends from the opposition who stood on the stand tell us that you are not always among the people. Look, guys, you guys may have just been out on the street, but we've been on the streets for 20 years in 81 counties and 973 counties since day one. In recent times, you may have been in need of a public appearance with cameras, but we are a party that has come out of the public itself, so the AK PARTY has been a real public party.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0194par0174	The party that came out of the public and betrayed the public.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0193par0175	Again, in the same way, the MPs who are constantly speaking for the opposition say that he doesn't exist, that he doesn't exist, that he doesn't. They say that he doesn't. And the budget is his budget, his budget. Of course you're going to do politics, but I suggest you do it without covering up some facts. So, I'm here today to talk about what's going on in the budget, whose budget is this? This budget has been damaged by all floods, especially Kastamon, and their homes are the budget of our people. The budget is the budget of our nation, which struggles with its lives in the fires of the forest in Mugla, Antalya, and other cities as a reflection of the world's climate crisis. (ARK PARTY) This budget is the budget of our brothers, who trust us, that we did not victimize anyone, as promised after the earthquake in Elazig, Malatya, İzmir. This budget is the budget of the non-homeless citizen who has provided housing for our citizens with no means of staying home, who has carried out urban transformation activities, and has built 1 million million and 50 dwellings over the course of 19 years -- one million and one million in Sincan. This budget is the budget of the Bank of Provinces, which provides a total of 80 billion dollars in 20 years with precision and justice for the infrastructure work of our municipalities. This budget is a budget in our 81 million square metres of nation garden in our province by 2023, completing 67 million square metres of land with our goal, breathing into our people's gardens, which we opened last month in our capital. It is the budget of the Ministry of Action, which provides a National Climate Strategy on issues such as agriculture, forest, energy, industry, transport, infrastructure and waste and waste in 81 cities. This budget is a budget that effectively fights our three-sided country's musilation problems, prevents 3 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions with Zero Waste Projects, saves hundreds of billions of trees, and allows us to make a profit of $30 billion. Yes, dear MPs, no, no, no. You say, "No." You know what we don't have? In our politics, we don't do things like climate, environment, water, forest, and nature, and we don't do politics like someone else, we don't do abuse, we don't do show and propaganda. (AK PARTY) There are no demonstrations of our values in nature, mountains, plains, or squares, unlike our government's interests, gathering our people with false information and provocations. (HDP rows of noise) There are no groundbreaking ceremonies. We have no despair, no despair, no pessimism. For 20 years, we've had nothing more to do but to serve our people at maximum, under the leadership of our President, and to deliver a beautiful Turkey to our future generations.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0195par0179	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0196par0180	Mr. President, let him speak the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0195par0181	So you're gonna decide who says what? What kind of democracy is that?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0197par0182	Do we have to listen to you? What rudeness, what a shame! We want to listen to our friend. Go yell outside. Go yell outside! Go yell outside! Disrespectful.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0198par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0195par0184	What kind of democracy is that? Everyone will say what you want.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0198par0185	You talk what you want, we don't interfere.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0195par0187	Go ahead, please, finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0198par0188	So, thanks to our policy so far, we will continue to work decisively to protect our natural wealth, while we will continue to transfer a clean Turkey to our future generations with its developed, strong, habitable and sustainable cities.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0199par0190	I mean, there's no amulets in Marmara, is there?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0200par0191	Shame! Shame! You're not rude, you're not rude. Shame!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0201par0192	We're tired of the noise, we're tired of the noise. We don't like the sound of that.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0199par0193	Salt Lake isn't dry, is it?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0202par0194	Okay, listen and learn! Listen and learn!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0203par0196	With such feelings and thoughts, I thank our President, our government, our ministers, and their precious staff, who have claimed all the riches of our country in the best possible way in the name of our nation. On this occasion, I wish that all of our budgets, all of our ministries, which are being discussed today, should be a blessing. I give thanks to our beloved nation, who has given us the authority to make our country's budget for 20 years, and I salute our General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0204par0199	Dear Muhammad Mufit Aydın... Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0205par0202	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge on the budget of the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, and I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We know the value of air, soil, water is priceless. The masks we've used to prevent the spread of the epidemic we've been exposed to for two years have shown us the importance of breathing, breathing fresh air. So the environment is not just a matter of politics, it's also a multidisipliner matter. Human beings face a great risk because we've broken the balance that exists. How? With a more comfortable desire to live, we've hobbled up natural resources, and it's not the prophecy of knowing that even the fact that conventional and nuclear weapons to destroy the world won't just kill people is going to continue at the historic peaks of the arms race, knowing that there will be more disasters than there is to be today. In the end, we came up with irreparable circumstances. You see, climate change, solid waste, pollution in water and sea, loss in species, no doubt shows us that there is a major problem. This has led to increasing environmental sensitivity in our country, as in the world. Healthy soil, safe water comes not only as our own, but as the most vital need for the tens of thousands of species that are hosted in our forests, in short our geography, in our seas of fresh air. Dear President, members of lawmakers, we are witnessing a transformation in the world to stop all this negativity, and we see new order being established. Green new regulations, transformations that bring the environment, climate, nature to the center, and that's what's happening in our country. Instead of being left to nature, countless environmentally-friendly practices, such as the increasing amount of waste that recycles into the value chain, the wastewater treatment facilities, bicycle transport, renewable energy investments, clean production activities, environmental tag practice, ecological corridors and national gardens, allow us to breathe cleaner air along with our nature. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Based on our country's needs, we've changed the environmental law, which is 40 years old; we've established an environmental agent of Turkey; we haven't stopped with this; we've opened the way for a change in the ministry's organization in one hand and more powerful ways in fighting the forest fires on our southern shores this year, in the floods and floods that have destroyed our Black Sea coasts, in the droughts that disrupt agriculture, to combat and adapt. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in September at the United Nations General Assembly, we set a clear zero emissions target by our President in 2053. In October, we passed the law on our own to side with the Paris Climate Agreement, thank you to the entire House. All these steps, I hope, will be the cornerstone of the green transformation, the green development revolution. In addition, we continue to prepare to establish our own national emissions trade system in the framework of the Green Covenant, which is the new European development move in which we are interacting with a great deal, against the border that could be an obstacle to exporting in the coming days. Hopefully, we'll clear up our road map by breaking climate law. You see, there's no way we can tell the past successes in just five minutes, nor the future success stories, which we already see in the field. Increased bicycle routes, air, wastewater, water monitoring systems, regular solid waste storage spaces, climate-resistant urbanization, ecological corridors, protected areas, the only preview of change and transformation ahead. The more environmental investments there are, the less medical costs there are. With that thought, we always see environmental issues as preventive medicine.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0206par0212	I'm afraid you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0207par0213	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0205par0214	You can't be environmentalist with rituals like someone who doesn't blame me for laying the foundation of a decontamination facility. (EC PARTY Applause) For 20 years, we have been really moving forward with the environment in this country, and we will continue to move forward. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices, applause, noise from HDP rows]] You're talking, we're talking, our people are listening, it's okay, then you don't have to yell. I salute the council and our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0208par0219	Mr. Cigdem Koncagül, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0209par0221	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY group on the budget of the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, the General Directorate of Meteorology. I hereby salute the High Council, our beloved nation, and our fellow citizens of Tekirdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, in the 20-year period of our AK PARTI rule, there have been many innovations in meteorology, as in all areas. The only public institution that serves our country and citizens in the matter of meteorology is the General Directorate of Meteorology. Tell me about the teenage boy. The meteorological General Directorate, which meets the demands for meteorological information in many sectors, with a rate of forecasting consistency above 90 percent, is a strong, technical and strategic institution that uses high technology. The General Directorate of Meteorology increased the number of automatic monitoring systems 31 prior to 2003 to 2,048 in 2021. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo)]] Why is poison flowing in the teenager? In addition to 11 existing acid rain stations in our country, four more acid rain stations were established in 2021, aimed at detecting long-distance pollutants. The meteorology launched the Mobile Observation and Predictation Centre to be used in activities aimed at boosting meteorological reading. In addition, you can track weather forecasts faster and easier by downloading mobile apps that are being prepared with all domestic and national technology to your phones. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Tell me about the floods, about the floods in Rize, about the people who lost their lives! The flood wasn't a natural disaster, tell me about it!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0210par0231	Well, listen, listen; you never learned to listen in this House!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0211par0232	You've been ranting around all morning. What's he saying? Let our women sing a little. When you came to, you've been talking to all our women all morning.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0209par0233	On the basis of our President's vision of becoming one of the 30 countries in Antarctica, the first automatic meteorology observation station has been established. The General Directorate of Meteorology uses meteorological information and its warnings, especially in agricultural activities, and they are delivered immediately to about 5 million members of NGOs. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were developed by the MGM and signed protocols on February 2021 between Turkey's Car Initiative Group TOGG. As part of the protocol, the driver will be presented with instant observations, predictions, early warnings and route proposals. On the other hand, five days of weather and sea forecasts from the Straits of Gibraltar to the Caspian Sea are being delivered to sailors, and 2500 marines and fishermen are being transmitted to the SMS. (EC PARTY) The drone is given to our Turkish Armed Forces to support meteorological operations in our country and across the border, as planned for SIHA operations. Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey is a beautiful country where a great and powerful story comes to mind when it's called "The State of Turkey." From 1960 to this day, every ten years, our country has suffered a coup, a review, a social, political and economic operation. It's our country that's been deliberately pushed out of the information and industry revolution. Here we have been, fighting for 20 years to destroy this poor fortune and unite our nation's ability with the technical infrastructure and vision of our country to bring our country above the level of troubled civilizations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We know that honorable and primitive struggles have a price. We continue our struggle constantly under the leadership of our President. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We call it Turkey against those who want to bring our backs to the ground by displaying a dignified stance in the face of opposition and international wooing operations that have heard the concept of regional and global power in our power. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We're working on a vision that develops technology, produces, exports, hopes for the future in every field. First we say human beings; states grow by service, by project, by vision.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0212par0244	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0209par0245	Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in our belief that we will achieve the national and domestic breakthrough we have launched under the leadership of our President, there is no stopping and tiring until we reach our country's 2023 goals. Wherever we go in the world, there are people looking forward to Turkey. This climate didn't come easy. I salute all those who work for our country, all those who work for our country, and I wish my country's path to peace. I hope our budget will be good for our country, for our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0212par0248	Mr. Ilyas Sugar, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0213par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. I salute and salute my beloved nation, the Veterans Assembly and its screens, watching us. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the 20th annual budget of service for the EC PARTY governments -- which have no party -- four presidential government systems. Hopefully, from now on, we'll discuss more budgets for the AK PARTY governments under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTI, not because it produces words, but because it produces services; because it is a student friend of students, not because it has a court order to cancel scholarships, but because it is a student friend; not because the government says that it is a unconditional blow lovers, not because it is the nation, not because it is a feared dream, but because it is the leader of our fellow martyrs; but because it is the leader of our country who has won the election, not because it is the leader of our country, but because it is the leader, not because it is the leader of our nation, not because it is the leader, but because it is the leader of the nation, who is the leader, not the leader, who is the leader, not the leader of the leader of the 15th century. What does Ziya Pasha say? His service is in the form of a man's visible rank/person's mind. Mr. Muharrem Tütü said he was defeated and defeated. The citizen says he is getting closer and closer to the opposition is the defeat again. Dear lawmakers, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate is a hundred and seventy-five-year-old institution that provides quality service to our citizens using technology to preserve property information belonging to real estate. Over 12 million a year across the country, it serves our citizens face-to-face, quality. By the end of November, he was the 2nd highest contributor to the budget with $20.3 billion in revenues. Dear MPs, perhaps the National Alliance won't like this, but I'd like to commend you on a few projects that the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate has implemented. First of all, because of the reliable service offered by the General Directorate, the World Bank Business Environment Report was ranked 27th among 190 countries, and congratulations, hopefully, the goal will be the 1st. Information on whether or not to move to the Web Tap Project is available via e-government and some services are available online. We can also get a lot of information about our real estate, just as we can go directly to the location of the real estate that we have by reading the square code of the deed to our cell phones. Over 2 million parcel interrogations a day can be done by mobile phones with mobile parsel apps. As the facility cadastro is completed in our country, the cadastral data produced with old technology is being updated in line with technology. In addition, the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus has been upgraded to 512,000 parcels. More than 30 per cent of time, cost and labour are used in weather forecasts and sensitive position measures, such as monitoring fault movements, while preventing multitasking from producing maps with the TUSGA Active Project. The project was completed in 6 languages for you Key Turkey (in 5 languages) and was completed in 5 languages by the Web Tap System (For Foreigner). Again, foreign diplomatic missions have been opened to serve our citizens abroad, and they continue to open. Citizens who are found in different counties and counties -- the first in the world -- are able to perform their procedures by going to the property managers at their location. Also, the Turkish project for transition to the deed system continues.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0214par0258	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0213par0259	And once again, the first in the world and the General Directorate's vision project, Project 3B Kadastro Adjectives, will be shown in 3D, along with the environment of independent sections. I thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who has served our nation day and night with the understanding of the state. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I congratulate our Minister, the General Manager and all the employees who have invested in our region, using all the resources of technology to the full, without giving secrets like the very loyal Elder Dede, who wishes our budget to be a blessing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0215par0264	Mr. Leyla Falcon... Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0216par0267	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our beloved nation and our grand delegation. Climate change is one of the most important problems that we already have, and in the future, is a common problem of all mankind as a global issue, just like the outbreak of Covid-19. If we're talking climate change, we need to talk about the integration process as well as the struggle. The conference held this year in Glasgow as the climate change summit had three main topics: human, universe, and prosperity. Unfortunately, the developed countries of the world have just come to realize that if they want to protect, heal, and improve human and human well-being, they have to protect the universe. Turkey sided with the Paris Agreement on November 10, 2021. With our President announcing his 2053 net zero vision to the world and launching his green development move, the institutional construction of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has been updated, the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change has been named and established a ministry of local climate change in order to ensure more effective work in the process. With this goal, the doors to a new era are opened in the context of fighting climate change and harmony. We have also supported the Glasgow Climate Pact as a country, which was adopted as a result of the 26th Conference of Sides and included the decision of the Conference of Sides. As part of the 26th Conference of Participants, our country has also participated in commitments in the declaration of forests and land use with zero carbon vehicles. Turkey also aims to lead the green transformation with its 2053 carbon neutral target. As it turns out, Turkey has a busy agenda for climate change and harmony. Naturally, our country is important for strengthening co-operation and co-ordination among all the commoners to achieve successful results in fighting climate change. In January 2022, the Climate Fair will be organised, and technical studies on climate change and its related emissions trade system will be completed. The fight against climate change is inevitable, not only for international and national, but also for local partners to participate in the process. Cities are responsible for about 70 per cent of greenhouse gas production that causes climate change, but are the most affected by climate change negatives. Therefore, the construction and implementation of city plans to fight climate change has led to significant steps in fighting climate change. At this point, with the projects of Zero Waste, Mr. Emine Erdogan Ma'am has created a great awareness, has accelerated the work and has begun a major transformation. In this regard, the number of local governments preparing a local climate change action plan is increasing. Our ministry has prepared regional climate change action plans for all of our country's geographical regions, and has also shared with the public, in light of different economic, environmental and social parameters and different effects caused by climate change. In this direction, environmentally friendly buildings, public institutions, schools, hospitals, organised industries have begun to take the most important steps. All these studies are the most concrete indicators of our country's determination to fight climate change on international, national and local scales. In research conducted between 1998-2017, 1.3 million people worldwide lost their lives due to climate-related disasters, billions of dollars in financial damage. A rapid drought on one side, a problem in the sea, forest fires in the Aegean and Mediterranean regions, and on the other, floods caused by extreme rains in our Black Sea region, all of which actually hit the climate change itself in a different way. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are making work and arrangements that will ensure that our country avoid negative developments and compensate for the damage done to future generations, a clean environment delivered to future generations, not to their development goals, but to improve bilateral co-operation, effective participation in regional and international work.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0217par0275	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0216par0276	Thank you. I'd like to finish with a reminder of these feelings and thoughts: it's celebrated as December 7th, 17th, the week of Shebiarus. From here, I invite everyone to the climate of Koniah, to the Masculina, to love, to peace, to the climate of peace. It is our duty as human beings to show mercy to the land, to the air, to the water, to every living thing and to the dead. We are trying to build the new world with new developments, as we built the new Turkey with this sense of service, and we say that a fairer world is possible. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] He wishes our budget well, especially to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Minister of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change Murat Kurum.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0218par0281	Mr. Osman Nuri Gülaçar... Here you go, Mr. Gülaçar.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0219par0284	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of our family ministry. Family is the smallest social world a man can comprehend his own existence. Although the family concept is broad or narrow, relationships between individuals who form them differ, eventually have a similar property in all societies. Throughout the modern era, the main sources in different geographys have been tradition, tradition, and religion that have built the family. Thus, there were family models of different characters in every culture on earth, but modernism, which aims to single-specify every area it penetrates, has also been intended to transform the family into a homogeneous format in all societies with all the ideological devices and cultural industries it has. The modern paradigm, which puts individualism at its core, has become a threat to our family structure, using mottos such as freedom and independence as masks. Individualism has created a mindset of its own, causing the abandonment of solidarity values that are the basis of our family ties. Of course, relationships between people who appear to be or family members are actually relationships that are built by a way of life or by a way of making sense of the world. Hence, the change in relationships between family members, the change in relationships between men and women, the change in the world view of a society, the way of life. There is a common relationship between a family model and a lifestyle. Thus, family is a place to transform a faith and faith into a way of life and pass it on to future generations. Dear friends, our values consider family to be the smallest building blocks of society, and family to be a womb that man has grown and completed. But modern social sciences consider the smallest element of society to be an individual. The family structure of our society is also in the process of dissolution, like most of the rest of the world's communities; we left our large families in the core family format first, and now we're about to lose our entire family structures. Dear lawmakers, we, on the basis of our beliefs, ideology, and party policies under this roof, can divide on many issues, argue against each other. But I believe that our family structure is of common value to all of us. When we destroy a ruling culture family, it's not about criticizing each other, blaming each other. There are tasks for us as the ruling party, and there are separate responsibilities for all opposition parties, civil society organizations, media companies and all our citizens. We are witnessing that in many movies, mass communication tools, television programs, television shows, digital platform structures, the main theme is targeting the family. Dear friends, in order not to go too far on the line, I would like to point out from all the negative examples I've seen and witnessed, that we, as a country, often represent a society that accepts him as a Muslim. Here, before or without bad examples, first of all...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0220par0290	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0219par0291	I will, Mr. President. The majority of our society express itself as Muslims. We, too, imitate the example of Muhammad Mustafa (sallaha Huslahi and Selem), his family life, and we witness the example of the generations he raised. So we have a responsibility to present these values first to our society and then to all mankind. The point is: We must give the mother who raised her child in her home the value and position she deserves, as if she were trapped in the house under the pressure of a neighborhood, no use at all, and that she should be given her freedom as soon as possible. They're mothers who reform a society and kiss the hand that builds it. I send my regards to all mothers who raise children with good morals.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0221par0295	Mr. Cigdem Karaarslan. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0222par0298	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services. I salute you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The budget of 20/22, which is the 20th budget of our EC PARTY governments, is the fourth budget we have prepared after our transition into our presidential government system. I'd like to begin by thanking our beloved nation, the Veteran Assembly, who has given us the authority to make a budget 20 times in a row. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our 2022 budget proposal was prepared by the vision of Turkey, which grew and strengthened without cutting off speed during a period of socioeconomic crises, global problems. Today, I want to share not with you numbers, numerical data, statistics, but actually with you today. In the early years when we were led by our President and President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we dominated our human-focused perspective as the EC PARTI, which began a major transformation and transformation process, redesigned state-national relations, reflected the reformist perspective in every area within the framework of development goals. With our vision, we have made important adjustments from justice to social security, environmental and urbanism to youth services, from education to health. Two years ago, we became more aware of the value of a breath of health and the importance of strong health infrastructure during the fight against the coronavirus epidemic, which unexpectedly entered our lives and paid heavy costs to all countries without limiting. In addition, through social benefits and all the other benefits, we have avoided many possible problems. We protected our citizen in the face of the difficulties of our siege social security system and pandemics. Mr. President, the precious lawmakers are the ones who are there when we need them, when we feel they exist in every aspect of social life. It is he who finds it difficult to take care of his disabled child in the house, who goes into the mother's arms and shares her burden, who says, "Don't worry, I'm here." An earthquake in Izmir, a flood in Bozkurt, a flood in Marmaris, and I am here in any area where we can replace it with a new one. It is he who protects the work, who defends the employee's rights, who says, "Don't worry, I am your guarantee." (EC PARTY applauses) It is I, who act on the principle of zero tolerance in the face of violence and discrimination while including women in every aspect of life. At times, opposition parties ask us, "What did you do? Let's say we've made human-based and right-based services a judge, we've struggled so that not even one citizen can feel lonely, of course, we have new problems today, but the address to solve when there's a problem with our citizen is the EC PARTI, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his companions. At this point, I want to expand the definition of the social state because the social state is also to make the quality of physical spaces and healthy living areas accessible for all of society. That's why, today, we're the ones who work to build cities for friends, not for nature, for life. We're the ones who started the biggest urban transformation move in the history of the Republic to preserve everyone's right to live in healthy and secure housing. We are the ones who have secured 65 per cent of the buildings in our country and delivered 133,000 social dwellings for our small-income citizens, a total of 1,100,000 dwellings. We are also the ones who produce policy in all areas from energy to industry, from transport to agriculture, from buildings to waste, with social, spatial, economic, and technological transformations, describing the first and most ambitious goal of Turkey in the region of Turkey and in the world as the Green Development Revolution. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Mr. President, valued MPs, all of this is only possible when you're a truly powerful state with a very strong political will, with firm feet on the ground, with continuity, with real power, that's what we've accomplished. We have reminded all our citizens of the fact that the state is a means to serve the public with all its resources, and there is no turning back.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0223par0306	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0222par0307	With this motivation, we are determined to move our country to 2023 and beyond, to leave our children with a strong legacy of Turkey in all areas. As I end my remarks today, I thank our Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Environment, Urbanism and the Ministry of Climate Change, Ministry of Family and Social Services, Minister of Labour and Social Security who has done a great deal of work on the budget preparation of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and to all the Minister of the Ministry, and to our members of the Plan and Budget Commission and to you, and to the good of our country and nation in 2022, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0223par0310	Mr. Orhan Yegin... Here you go, Mr. Yegin.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0224par0313	Mr. President, I salute our beloved lawmakers, our beloved nation, and our Veteran Assembly representing it. Mr. President, when the precious MPs were formed in 2001, nothing will ever be the same anymore. He said, "We will be the voices of the silent millions, we will be the people of the homeless." He said, "We will move the circle to the center and we will merge the environment. He said, "We are on our way; we have applied to the nation, we have taken the authority and we have started to work. We're discussing the budget, we're discussing the budget of our four ministries today. In 2002, the total amount of income brought into this parliament as the country's income budget was 71 billion, and the amount planned as the cost budget was 98 billion, and the number in between was intended to be borrowed. Today, we've become a state that puts more than the country's income budget the year it comes to power -- 78 billion -- just as a drug payment -- praise be to God. (APPLAUSE) Öznur Abla has just told us about the idea of offering service to the citizens of the state from the country that brought us an important person or someone close to her if we saw an air ambulance plane in the air, a helicopter in the past. (EA/TK) Today, in the winter of Van's Gardensara, the yellow boots brought Mehmet Agha's bride into the air and brought her into the hospital and brought this service to a state in all parts of the state without making any color, ethnicity, segregation, or income, or demand for a penny. (AK PARTI) When you went to the hospital, you were desperately unable to respond, and where is this state? Where is this country? Where is it? [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] From the year it was founded to 2002, we arrived at a state point that produced over 1 million dwellings in 19 years and handed over 50,000 dwellings to its owners, just a few months before building 50,000 dwellings. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We've become a state in disaster, in urban transformation, where we've lived in a state that has never existed before. We've become a state that has claimed to build 81 million square metres of nation garden in 81 cities. Move the corner so that the tree will not be cut down. With the consciousness of carrying the trust of a republic's founder who gives the instruction, move a path intended for birds on the way of migration in Nallihan, move it so that the birds will not be affected, or the migration path will not be affected. We have come to an environmental state that has been instructed to shift, and is planned to be moved by tunnel. Thank God for that. (APPLAUSE) From a country where all its expenses were planned to be 98 billion when it came to power in four pens, we reached a good point today, where the parents, whose parents, whose parents are disabled, are in the military, have increased their sensitivity to chronic illness, and 42 pencils in many topics, are the state of the homeless, and the state of the homeless. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] We don't like non-responsibility -- we don't like the number of jobs that exist in 2002 -- with an increase of 182 per cent, over 12 million, over 25 million, over 2 million by July 2021 -- to a position that makes our employees with professional competence documents, over 50 per cent -- but from a point that doesn't pay for 6.5 million pensions, to a state where they pay for 13.5 million pensions and pay each holiday bonuses; let alone the opportunities to pay for access, pay for all medicines that are free today -- we don't like the non-responsible medicine -- 30 per cent, but we're grateful to God today.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0225par0321	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0224par0322	For God's sake, sit at home and we'll bring your salary to your door. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] We're proud of it, of course, we should all be proud of it, but of course we're not satisfied with it. We say we have more distances to take, lots of ways to go, much better services to serve this nation, and much greater standards to reach. We're going to hold hands without a single shred of discrimination.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0226par0326	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0224par0328	With Alevi, with Sunni, with his Kurd, with Zaza, with his Zazek, with his Turkik, with his five times prayer in the mosque, with the one who can't get on, with the one who says, "I won't open my head." I don't choose to cover my head, brother. With all his differences, we'll join hands, side by side with each other, we'll raise this country.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0227par0330	Thank you, Mr. Yegin.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0224par0331	We'll break all the traps and cross the mounds, and we'll bring forth the effort to take the prayer of this holy nation together. I say, I salute you all.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0227par0333	Mr. Tahir Akyürek, please. Friends, the speaker is on the stand, your congressman friend is on the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0228par0336	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to begin by speaking of the Sultan of Hearts, who sees death as a friend, because right now, the ceremony of Shebiarus continues on the basis of the 748th year of Hakklat by Mazreti Mazlana in Konya. These programs are also one of the most important international events in our country, organised by guests from all over the world. I have a life, maybe a hundred thousand bodies. / Honey, he must be pissed. / He who hurt you also hurts me. He stressed peace and brotherhood, saying, "I do not ignore the life of loveless people, and the time without love." He called for tolerance, love, and respect. In the 748th year of his Vuslat, I remember him with mercy and gratitude, inviting all his dearest friends to the programs of Konya, which will continue until the evening of December 17th. By the way, Kubbei Hadra, one of the symbols of our Konya's and the mausoleum, the mausoleum of our mausoleum, has been completed today, as well as the repairs and renovations of the Green Dome. And I want to thank all of our friends who worked there. Mr. President, we're discussing the budgets of our four ministries and organizations today. Our 4 precious ministers are in our Parliament. My speech is on the Ministry of Labor and Social Security budget. I'd like to say that we've all been waiting for an announcement from our Minister of Labor and Social Security that will please all our employees and our nation next week. I want to thank our ministers for their service on behalf of our nation. The total budget of our Ministry of Labour and Social Security for 2022 is estimated at 83 billion 851 million 907,000 Turkish liras. I wish you the best of the 2022 budget. I wish that our budget, our country, our investment, production, employment, exports, growth, and the prosperity that will arise in this way, will lead to the goals of fair sharing. Since the establishment of our power, our country has signed several revolutionary services from transport to infrastructure, tourism to working life, including roads divided, fast train lines, new universities, city hospitals, airports, ports, bridges, tunnels, organised industrial areas. We thank and thank our beloved nation who have always been with us in the writing of this success story. The AK PARTI takes the rights and justice in the struggle for labour and sweat; in working life, it is not a conflict, but a style based on labor, sweat, rights, and law. From early 2020 on, the global pandemic that affected our country as well as the world has brought economies to a standstill. And in our country, praise be to God, we have survived with the measures taken. By the end of the year 2020, we became one of the two countries that closed the G20 countries with China, plus growth. Hopefully, by the end of this year, our growth rate will exceed 10 percent. Our vision of strong, developing Turkey will continue to grow. In order for the effects of the pandemic to be less felt, we transferred billions of dollars to our employees, to our tradespeople, to our trade sectors, and to other funds. We've also given normalization support to our businesses, which have been restored to normal working order by recovering from the effects of the plague.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0229par0341	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0228par0342	We paid 1,400,000 people $7 billion 800 million Turkish lira as an unemployment allowance. Our unemployment rates have decreased from last year to 11.2, and employment and employment rates have significantly increased. We'll be on our way by adding new ones to the giant services we've been doing for 21 years. We'll provide more work and more food to grow our people's bread. As I end my words with these feelings, I wish the financial budget of 2022 to be a blessing for both our ministries and our country, with respect and love.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0230par0346	Mr. Nevzat Ceylan. Mr. Ceylan, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0231par0349	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a promise to you on the budget of the Occupational Compulsory Board, and I salute the Veteran Assembly. For a strong economy, no doubt implementation of vocational and employment policies incompatible with each other is important for a sufficient number of jobs with employment qualifications. We all know that the development of our educational system of qualified labor, which meets the needs and expectations of working life, will give Turkey a global competitive advantage. Today, especially in developed industrial countries, vocational and technical education are given in line with professional standards and competencies, producing solutions to boost efficiency, efficiency in education, and competitiveness in the economy. In our country, the Employment and Social Security Ministry's relevant institution, the Occupational Qualification Agency, provides qualified employees for our country's work life by creating national professional standards and competencies as a precedent for the countries of the European Union, in full harmony and co-operation. The Employment Agency has taken on an important mission to restructure the professional and technical training and documentation of the labour force within the concept of vocational education and competence, which strengthens the relationship of education and employment and brings a new perspective on human resources management and working life in Turkey. From this point of view, the work of 863 national professional standards has been completed and implemented so far in order to provide qualified employees in the working life, braids, and common vocational curriculums. 540 national qualifications have been implemented in the following professional standards for measuring and documenting the skills and competence of the profession. Two million people who have been successful in their professional competency examinations conducted by authorized grants, examinations and documentation agencies have been provided as qualified labor force for their work life by receiving a certificate of professional competence. 92 per cent of people with professional competence have been employed and business accidents have been reduced by 25 per cent. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, professional competence documents are international documents confirming that a person knows and performs his profession correctly by taking occupational health and safety measures. A certificate of professional competence, which is also valid internationally and can be organised in seven different languages, has been made a visa for our workforce. It has now become a compromise on all sides, where professional competence-licensed labor increases efficiency in production and contributes to increasing quality of products and services. A certificate of professional competence, which is mandatory in many areas, particularly in the professions related to dangerous jobs, in order to minimise business accidents, is welcomed by the business community and our employees. Today, our workforce has been licensed with a total of 195 vocational qualifications, including 183. There has been no additional financial burden brought to our employees and employers under the obligation of a certificate of professional competence, and an additional $1.6 billion worth of examinations and documentation has been provided to about 1.5 million people. Finally, the Turkish Framework of Qualifications, which reformed our country's education and competence system, was prepared with its shareholders, and has been referred to the European Framework of Qualities. In this way, the quality assurance of diplomas and documents provided in our country is among the number of countries in Europe that make up the framework for competence. A certificate of professional competence, along with a degree of quality security in the Turkish Framework of Qualifications, has been made the official certificate and brand of our country's international validity. With the institutional culture and the staff regime of the Employment Agency, it is one of our country's most exemplary, respected and successful institutions...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0232par0357	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0231par0358	I wish the institution's 2022 budget to be a blessing, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit03spe0232par0360	Congressmans, I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0232par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with 2022 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and 2020 Central Management Law Proposal. The commission is in place. Promise demands have been met on behalf of the groups. Now, the first word on behalf of the individuals is Bayram Özçelilik. Here you go, Mr. Originality.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0233par0008	Mr. President, we're discussing the 20th budget of our EC PARTY governments, easy to say, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,... 19, 20. Have there been examples of governments and parties in our political history? No, it didn't. Since 2002, it has been a blessing to be on all budgets. In each budget meeting, there will naturally be shortcomings to be criticised by the opposition. When budgets were criticised with proper and proper style, we saw that our governments and ministers considered them. They told our 19 budgets here, the budget here, the budget here. They said, "This center, this center's budget." They said, "These budgets don't serve the nation." But we saw that every budget had investments, services came out, works came out, success stories came out. Even though we have flaws, flaws, and failures, our great nation, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and his companions, said, "We are with you, and our prayers are with you." 19 in budget talks, and now some of the opposition MPs are very impulsive, aggressive, loud, hurtful. They criticized it with words. Nineteen years of experience tells me that whoever spoke this language and that style could not come to this House in the next term. Conspiracy budgets, huh? Each of our budgets was a farewell budget? Last, last, really one last budget, huh? Unimaginable budgets, huh? Here are the facts, facts, and actions: a list of 15 billion dollars worth of services done to all of our Burdur and four villages in 193 villages, in 2004, in 2005, in 2019, in 2020, and in 2021. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It is a success story that for the 20th time, we are making the budget of our nation, Turkey. It is a great blessing to our Lord that 15 choices are all transformation and outcome choices, and that we complete with the 1st place as an EC PARTY. It's not easy to get people's support, it's not easy to get people's power in our party, it's not easy to get our people in the snow, in the winter, in the heat, in the summer, in the floods of love and excitement. It requires labor, wants sacrifice, wants intimacy, wants unity, wants to run day and night, wants to sweat, wants to work, wants to feed on its history and spiritual dynamics in the struggle for virtue, demands the imagination of civilization and the march to build. You're going to be 20 years old, you're going to be in power for 19 years, you're going to be in the 20th budget, you're going to be in 19 budgets, you're going to be in line and you're going to get distance from the nation. Thou shalt not look down upon thy fellowman, neither exult, neither shalt thou turn away from thy feet; neither shalt thou curse, neither reproach, nor make a gesture of the people's saints, neither shalt thou make a gesture; then shall thou be strong for twenty years, and thou shalt prepare the twentyth budget with the people's lawful votes; and God will decree, and the great nation shall be thankful. The success story of the 20 years and the 20th budget, their political victories, has long points, and we can sort them out. One of them, the AK PARTY, is the party that turns crises, chaos, fears into opportunities, goals. He went through all these processes with the support he received from our nation when he turned them into opportunities, resources, prosperity, goals, and then he'll get over it. In this period when pandemics and world economies are intubated, we see our country branching out of the economic field, getting hit by Achilles' tendon; whenever we get too tight, our people come out, and whenever global gangs and forces attack, our nation is in the direction.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0234par0013	What's wrong with dentists?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0233par0014	In the 100th year of the republic, in 2023, our nation will set a global road map to our country, to our region, a holy march. No one will be able to push us into despair, into pessimism, and put fear into us.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0234par0015	What's wrong with doctors and dentists?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0233par0016	All we have to do is think like a people, to solve every problem for the citizen, to create politics that will be next to him, in his side. Then next year we'll do the 21st budget, and we'll do the 5th budget of the 28th term. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's just that there's something remarkable about the current problems.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0235par0020	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0233par0021	The fear that our EC PARTY, which has been overcome by the crisis led by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, will succeed this time with the Cumhur Alliance. Fear and panic is the successful release of Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the recent economic turmoil of world states and Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0236par0022	What about the problems with dentists?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0233par0023	And that's when the strategies of those who have all the geography changes projects, who are in a hurry, who dream of building a pawn state, will be thrown in the trash.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0236par0024	What's wrong with dentists?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0233par0025	Our minister has done great work on our Lake Salda, thank you. He's done a great job in health, and he's going to do it in dental medicine -- the year of dental medicine -- Mr. Secretary. The services of our Minister of Family and Social Services continue, our Minister of Labour and Social Security, our teacher, one of us, and he will succeed.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0237par0027	Thank you, Mr. Originality.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0233par0028	In the First Assembly, Mehmet Akif Ersoy says: To let go of determination by seeing the devil in darkness... If there is a low death, that is all I know. I don't believe in yesterday, even if I did. No one who implies it will die with this death: Two hands for one head. Why don't you... The hands are yours and the head is yours!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0238par0036	Mr. Bayram, what's wrong with these dentists? Your colleagues are waiting to hear from you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0239par0037	Congressmans, we will now begin the talks on behalf of the administration. The first word for the executive is for Mr. Fahrettin Koca. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0240par0041	Mr. President, I stand before you, valued lawmakers, as part of the 2022 Budget Law Proposal, the Ministry of Health budget of 2022 and the final account of 2020. Thank you for your concern and kindness, and I salute you all on behalf of myself and my Ministry. Mr. Abdul Ahat Andican, Mr. Bayram Özçelik, Mr. Mr. Mugittin Taşdoğan, Mr. Hayati Araz, Mr. Semra Nice, Mr. Gülestan Kılıç Koçyiğit, Mr. Sait Dede, Mr. Imam Taşçıer, Mr. Bayram Özçelik, Mr. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu, Mr. Mr. Mr. Şernettin Taşdoğan, Mr. Mr. Mr. Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, Mr. Hayati Araz, Mr. Semra, Mr. Şim, Mr. Şim, Mr. Şerttan Şarıtın, Mr. Şarımün, Mr. Şerımımün, Mr. Şim Taşçın, Mr. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're going to be entrusted with a budget, which we're going to have today's meeting, and by the power vested in us by your discretion. And on our shoulders shall be the burden of our nation, and of its fruits, and of its burdens, and of its burdens, on the burden of the orphan, and on the orphan. We are aware and aware of the right you have entrusted us with. There's people in this budget, there's health in this budget, there's professional morality in this budget, there's conscience and compassion; there's no dissolution, no conflict, no interference. I present to you today not only as the Minister of Health, but also as a physician. The doctor is the one who approaches his patient with love and compassion. Sometimes you give life to the one you love, and sometimes the one you love dies in your hand; it's a heavy profession. The doctor is part of a profession that's sworn to treat anyone who's ever tried to kill himself. Doctors do a job free of all dissolution, friction and conflict. He serves as an organization, from top to bottom, with his staff in health care. Health care is like a human body, where a malfunction occurs, the heart beats, each part performs a very important task, and the total health of all is vital, even without one. Dear members of the High Assembly, I had a talk on this bench, the most difficult days of the epidemic, our health workers had become heroes to all of our younger children, all of us, all of us, and there were pictures of them everywhere in their sweaty aprons, and in some images, there were deep traces of Covid-19 masks on those bright faces, and I want to tell you about them, my friends. We've been in dialogue with you recently for their rights. We said: "We must take the steps of health care workers in the matter of their rights by mutual will." He is grateful for your support for our ministry, and I believe your support will continue until the very end. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you'll appreciate that in my due time, I'm unable to transfer limited budgets, but with unlimited responsibility and sacrifice, services that have been implemented. However, in the pamphlets that have been distributed to you, you are in front of you by mistake, by virtue of the activities of our Ministry. Each of our mistakes, each of our truths is clearly ahead of you, so I'd like to address a few important issues. Precious lawmakers, an example of this Parliament passed a unanimous law, one of our biggest problems was violence. When a new violence occurs, I'm unable to find the words I'm going to say to our employees. Is the law the only solution to the problem of violence in health? Of course not; the law is a basis. As all institutions, we have to establish social solidarity with violence in health. The sides of the violence in health are not just perpetrators and victims. The law must protect a health worker who is tied up in the morality of responsibility from violence. We demand that everyone side with the violence against the health workers. Paramedics are subject to severe lawsuits and pay huge compensations. I'm talking about malpractis. You know, that word means damage caused by lack of skill or error in a profession. The absence of a residency court in this area is leading the cases in the wrong direction, and physicians are tied to their patients at a point where they should interfere with astronomical compensation figures. We expect your support in the work on this matter. Remember, our physicians are the best trained physicians that the richest countries have ever looked at with the eyes of a buyer. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, as the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey, we've put our city hospitals into one reality due to the great vision initiated by our President for the development of health care services. There are no hospitals like this in this day and age. We did not give such health care, but times have changed. We built cities of health, regardless of the words. You can't fill it, you can't run it. Despite what they say, we've seen what a great service it is in the most stormy days of the global pandemic. We've seen painful balance sheets of unreported health care in countries claimed to be advanced. In our country, we didn't see patients lining up in the hallways in front of oxygen tanks. We did not allow our physicians to experience the dilemma of using the breathing device that gave the patient breathing to live on. Instead of planning to take patients to other countries, we brought our citizens from all over the world to our country and treated them. I'm proud to be Minister of such a state. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Congressmans, what a great service our public-private hospitals have provided. It's not quite like that, it's better this way. Those of you who say, as soon as we've finished our words, you may have someone who plans to answer and say what's missing, and if we say so, of course, we'll criticize, but we won't prevent you from giving up your rights. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Congressmans, no verbs under the dome disappear, our mistakes and our blessings follow. There's no getting out of the wrong without holding on to the right. You're sitting in these ranks, elected by our nation's votes, acting as our nation's representative. Our nation has taken responsibility to the opposition, to criticize us, to criticize us, to warn us if we have wrongs, just as our power has entrusted us to serve us. We will all do our duty under this sacred roof. So I want you to know that I accept every criticism from the heart, on the condition of being within the limits of conscience and morality. Precious lawmakers, we didn't just build hospitals with public-private cooperation; we have 15 hospitals that are being built and built from the general budget. Our hospitals in Aydın, Denizli, Şanliurfa are made from the general budget. Our hospitals in Diyarbakir, Sakarya, Antalya are also made from the general budget. Construction of Samsun, the Army, Tripoli city hospitals from the general budget is also under way. Istanbul's Sandzaktepe, Mardin and Rize city hospitals will also be made from the general budget. The main thing is to get health care. We have no other effort but to use the resources entrusted to us in the right way, to provide the best quality of health care under the proper circumstances. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to draw your attention to two agencies that belong to our Ministry. These are the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices and the chairmanship of the Turkish Institute for Health. Our Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medicine is an internationally recognised authority responsible for the regulatory of medicine and medical equipment in our country. With the activities of this institution, 88 ▪ of every 100 canisters of medicine used in Turkey today are produced in our country. (AK PARTY) Thanks to this institution, our exports of medicine are growing exponentially every year. There is no medicine in Turkey. News has nothing to do with concrete truth. We're trying to sell expensive drugs to Turkey, but we can't sell them. It's a cry. We don't let our patient down, but we don't let global opportunists be the source of our nation's trust. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Our chairmanship of the Turkish Institute of Health is the institution that provides support for the development of health technologies in our country and also runs research. In our country, after 25 years, the vaccine was re-created. For the first time in over 50 years, we had a vaccine developed locally, including antigen, starting with cell work. Every phase of our domestic inactive Covid-19 vaccine, Turkovac, has been developed in our country. Our Republic has a vaccine breakthrough starting in 1927. The local vaccine is the performance of the interrupted success of Turkovac. We are one of the six countries in the world that produced the Covid-19 vaccine. This success belongs to this nation that you have entrusted.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0241par0059	Has Turkovac been approved, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0240par0060	Saint lawmakers developed vaccines by their own means, about 50 years later, 100 per cent of Turkey. It's our responsibility to keep that value. Not only the Covid-19 vaccine, but we also called for chicken pox, hepatitis A, and rabies vaccines to be brought to our country with technology transfers, to be invested in our country. With these three vaccines, we will continue our efforts to domesticize the vaccine. In addition, there is absolutely need for a modern centre to develop and develop biotechnology products to develop vaccines in our country. We're all set on this. As of yesterday, this facility began its bidding process. We'll be sharing all the details very soon. We claim the legacy of the late Refik Saydam. Some institutions may complete their history, but if you are building rising institutions, you are collaborating with the future. Dear MPs, it was the period of the First World War and after, the period of epidemics. The early doctors of the Republic, their early nurses, fought great wars against infectious diseases. A hundred years later, we found ourselves in a war like this. From the beginning of 2020 to the last quarter of 2021, literally, the whole world made decisions. We've faced a global pandemic that could be witnessed in a century. At the time when science fiction films said robots would invade the world, we were faced with a centuries-old plague, a global pandemic. The truth of the first day was the wrongs of the second day. What we fear is ineffective, and it's very important that we don't realize its importance. Even in an age when knowledge was so easy to reach, we needed time to develop experience. When we look at the two-year process, what we'll see is that the plague has set a gap between individual life and social life, making the two the opposite; societies cannot sustain it. Life can't go on with the concept of a kind of public health ban. Our attitude has been that individual life and social life have been defended together. We faced the danger of spreading false information quickly. In the process, we have based on the fact that the best is to bring our citizens together with real knowledge, whether it's first-hand or sad, to make the most fundamental decisions in science. We tried to make the right decision as quickly as possible. We've used the best physical and digital health infrastructure. We had a life-or-death struggle with clocks, a struggle between dying and living in the simplest and simplest form of the word. Now, in some people's minds, you've been missing this, you've been late on the subject, you haven't paid enough attention to the subject. Of course, we've had our shortcomings, where there's work, where there's people, there's failures. The main thing is that there's no intention of it. Neither I nor my organization nor our scientists have strayed from the path of science in the process. If we've been wronged, we ask your forgiveness for our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0242par0066	Finish your words, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0240par0068	We have entrusted our nation's conscience with the rights and efforts we have made. (AK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) We have a thin neck of hair for their appreciation. Mr. President, we've had a difficult time in the last two years, especially with all our health workers. We've been through a serious test by the nation, and I owe it to all public officials and our great nation to thank all of our public officials and health staff, who have worked night and day, putting their lives forward in order for us to pass this test successfully. Today, with us, we thank our Minister of Family and Social Services, who discussed the budgets of their Ministry, our Minister of Labour and Social Security, and our Minister of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change for their support during this difficult process. On this occasion, I wish our country and citizens the best of the budget of 2022.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0243par0073	The second word for executive is Minister of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, Mr Murat Kurum. Here you go, Mr. Corporation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I'm here to present information on the activities of our environment, the Ministry of Urbanism and the Ministry of Climate Change and the objectives of our institutions for 2021 and again 2022 years. On behalf of myself and my Ministry, I salute our beloved nation, our Veteran Assembly, and you, our esteemed MPs. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, on the 98th anniversary of our republic's announcement, by the decision of Mr. President, our ministry will now conduct its work as Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change. In 2021, we created important projects about our cities and our environment, in respect of the environment that sustains our civilization, in line with our goal of climate-friendly cities. I sincerely thank you, our esteemed deputies, who we have taken every step together regarding our cities in this sense. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, today our world faces a climate crisis due to the global waste problem and dense pollution of the environment. Climate change has a profound impact on all states, all lives. According to our meteorological General Directorate, the number of meteorological disasters in our country in the 2000s increased by three times more than in the 1960s, when you looked at economic losses than in the 1960s. We see huge sinkholes in our fertile city of Iconium. Our Black Sea Zone is inundated with floods. We face numerous forest fires in Antalya, Mudla, and many of our provinces. We've been fighting the climate crisis for 20 years. As part of the fight against the climate crisis, the Honorable Emine Erdogan, we've expanded our country's understanding of recycling with our Zero Waste Project, which we've run under the protection of Ma'am. Our project has become an example for governments with international awards. After our president announced that we would side with the Paris Agreement, 2053 net target of zero emissions and our goal of green development. I thank you very much for our approval, the MPs, who led us to side with the Paris Agreement. With our belief that a fairer world is possible under the leadership of our President, we will make Turkey the most important actor in the fight against global climate change. Of course, we also saw a negative effect of climate change through a slush in the Sea of Marmara. Again, with our President's instructions and experience, our 22-point Marmara Sea Action Plan has wiped out the musilation on the surface of the sea. We've quickly implemented our short-term solutions, and now we're implementing our integrated strategic plan, which includes long-term, permanent solutions. Last month, with Mr. President's signature, we have declared the Sea of Marmara a special environmental protection zone, and in this framework, we have protected Marmara with ecological value, biological diversity, natural resources, cultural values. Hopefully, together with the steps we will take, we will save our Marmara, our future generations, our future children, in the most natural, beautiful, most clear form. You know, in Lake Salda and around it, just like in the Sea of Marmara, we declared a special environmental protection zone. I expected you to ask me a question about Salda, and you didn't, but I'll let you know about Salda's recent condition. You know, I've always asked friends who slandered us over Salda, who cheated on our nation to listen to this place. Look, the final situation here in Salda is that our valuable deputies no longer enter the bottom of the lake, and the cars are parked in the parking lot that we built there, far from the lake to the edge. The piles of garbage are no longer on the coast of Salda, near our blue lake. You're opening up. In Salda, you call it, we've destroyed all the illegal structures around the lake, and we've brought visitors to the White Islands area. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We improved the quality of water at Lake Salda. We've managed to get our citizens to satisfy the needs of our citizens with just wooden structures, not even a nail in the vicinity of Salda. It's much more beautiful on the raft now, and I advise you all to see it. Dear lawmakers, today, we unite Anatolia from the north to the south, again, from the east to the west, with all our protected areas, streams, rivers, green areas within the city. We connect these areas over hundreds of miles of walking and bicycle roads, and today we have reached 67 million square meters on the road that we have set out in our city with the goal of 81 million square meters of the nation garden. We also have 410 nation gardens that we have built in the most precious places in our cities. Now, I say to all our deputies: "Go see our Capital People's Garden, visit it. Despite those who said, "Who will go?," the people did not want a garden. Despite those who said, they visited more than 1.5 million citizens in a month. All our citizens were there from seven to seventy with their women, their children, and their young, in the nation's garden. In addition to the nation's gardens, which we have built in Istanbul, we are making a new one at Ataturk Airport, hopefully. In the area where Ataturk Airport is located, we will begin the work of our garden within 2022, hopefully, and we will complete it by 2023 and bring it to Istanbul, our country. And this nation will be our garden, hopefully, one of the largest city parks in the world. Dear lawmakers, in 2021 we saw the negative effects of climate change in the Black Sea, where we suffered a great deal; we lost dozens of our citizens. With our President's instructions, from the very first moment of the incident, our deputies and our mayors were immediately in disaster areas. We've completed our search and rescue operations, our damage detection work as quickly as possible. In the process, we did not victimize any of our citizens, we did not leave them exposed; we did rent, goods, and moving aid. We've completely upgraded the infrastructure of our cities by the hands of the Governor-General of the Provinces Bank. Today, in Giresun, Rize, Kastamon, Sinop, and Bartin, we quickly build thousands of our dwellings and village houses. Another result of climate change is the rising temperature that has caused fires all over our country, particularly Antalya and Mughla. On July 28th, when the fires started, we continued to work in the field for Antalya and Mughla with the same sense of mobilization as in other disaster areas, renovating the infrastructure of our villages. And here we build our cottages, our dwellings, along with his barn, his warehouse, his mosque, his school, his social utensils. If we have delivered in one year as promised in Elazığ, Malatya, Kartal, Giresun, as we promised in one year, we will deliver our homes in all of our disaster areas, hopefully within a year. But here I'd like to express a fact with regret. There is a disaster in the United States, a flood in Europe, and the state fights only that disaster, and no one gets involved in political debates. We have a fire in many cities at the same time, and one of the opposition says, "A plane," and the other says, "Arazi sieves," and the other starts slandering. So when we have floods, fires and earthquakes in Turkey, we don't just fight disaster, we have to fight opposition.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0244par0090	There's no trust in you! You don't trust me! Yes, we stayed for months, stayed in Malatya, stayed in Giresun, stayed in İzmir, Kastamon, in Bozkurt. Our only concern is to heal the wounds of our nation and bring our children, our young, into their warm homes as soon as possible. We've never had anything else to worry about. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, today, there is a massive earthquake ahead of our country, and we have lost 80,000 lives in the last hundred and twenty years. As part of the urban transformation campaign launched by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have managed to transform 1.7 million dwellings so far, and we are also conducting 330,000 transformations and construction of our social housing, with an investment value of $110 billion, with 130,000 in Istanbul. So far, in our TOKI, at our 4,400 construction site, we have reached an unprecedented number of dwellings in the world. By providing 1.1 million healthy homes in our country, we were able to provide the needs of our citizens, our sub-income group, our citizens who needed housing again, and the construction of 1 78,000 of our dwellings is now in effect in the field. From 2002 to today, we have secured 65 per cent of the buildings in our country, along with the social dwellings that we have made with the head of the Public Housing Administration, and we have allowed more than 54 million citizens to live in safe houses against disasters. Those who have been victims of the cities they've been running for years, who have not been able to travel a barley length to prepare for an earthquake, who have done nothing but make words, do not appreciate these works. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, on the one hand, we don't allow the historical heritage to be corrupted with deep marks on our nation. Today, in our 44 counties, we re-integrate our 79 historical squares. In Bitlis, we combine history and culture with green, and we launch a project that will bring the river of Bitlis to the surface of the historical buildings. (AC PARTY clapping) Again, we extend to the Hanlar region, which includes the Great Mosque, our capital city of Burma. With our new Mevlana Square in Iconia, we have started our projects again by bringing history back to life. And in Edirne, and in Sinan, the relic of Mimar, we take care of Selimi, and all around him. Ankara Hergelen Square, Saraçoglu neighborhood; again, Erzurum historical square; Yozgat Çapanoglu Mosque; Kastamonun Nasrullah Mosque and its surroundings; Mus, Kütahya, Isparta, Bingöl, Zonguldak, Sinop, Afyon and Kayseri, we continue our projects of renovations with loyalty and respect for the past. On the other hand, with new industrial areas, we're moving our citizens to much more modern, much wider areas, with the big and powerful Turkey goal, hundreds of industrial areas in our 81 cities that are disturbing our tradesman. We contribute to our cities' development, economics, employment. Again, we are increasing the number of agricultural projects that increase production and employment in our villages every day. We've already completed the construction of 7,400 agricultural village housing in 45 different projects. Again, we laid the foundations of the 750 million-dollar investment-priced livestock area, including 314 stables, veterinary buildings and meat-integration facilities, which have a capacity of 10,600. In Diyarbakir, the historical walls are restoring at $50m in investment costs, and in Şırnak, we are building new homes in Dicle neighbourhood. We build dorms in Hakkari, build schools while we build historical buildings in Mardin. By God's grace, we will continue to do so with the blessing of our mothers and with the help of our nation. (EC PARTY) Because every step we take in our territory has been the hope of our Kurdish brothers; every new door we open has been peace for our Kurdish brothers; every key pen we throw has won over the gun; every nation we open has been the joy of our children; every dwelling we complete has become a warm, secure home. You made our mothers cry, you made our fathers weep, and you burned, destroyed, destroyed, while we fought for the sake of our Kurdish brothers and sisters to make our cities grow, while we fought for their happiness.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0245par0098	Who the hell are you talking to? Who are you talking to? We know what you're doing! We rebuilt, rebuilt, rebuilt the cities you burned. And don't worry, we'll keep producing, whether you want to or not. We didn't hand our children over to terror, terrorists, traitors, and we won't anymore. [[Applause from EC PARTI and MHP rows, noise in HDP rows]] Dear lawmakers, in 2020 we started a major earthquake transformation in Elazığ, Malatya, and in Malatya, following the earthquake that ensued our nation. We've brought a new future to both our cities. We build 30,000 dwellings in Elazığ, Malatiah, and 4,000 village houses with our TOKI. Less than a year later, we began to deliver our dwellings. After the earthquake, we promised our beautiful Izmir to not leave us hands reaching out of the rubble to heal the wounds of our brothers and sisters from Izmir, and, in fact, there have been twenty days in my life when I had many different feelings, in Flagl, in every street, in every neighborhood of Flagl, in every neighborhood of the earthquake, where we worked with our brothers and sisters. Now, you've been ministering to us for three years, what's changed? I've told you again what I've done, and I'll tell you from now on. But I ask you: Can you show me the urban transformation project you've started in Izmir, which you've been running for 25 years? How many urban transformation projects have you started, how many green space projects, how many wastewater treatment projects have you started? You're angry, but I'll tell you again, in twenty-five years you've made the proud Izmir of Gazi Mustafa Kemal the victim. [[AK PARTI and MHP are applauding from CHP and HDP rows]] You always, always, always say the same thing. You are restricting the authority of our local governments.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0246par0106	You're not the kind of guy to talk about this! Once again, with our reforms after 2002, we expanded the jurisdiction of our local governments, not you; we increased their income.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0247par0109	Finish your words. In 2020, we raised that number to 100 billion, which was transferred from general budget revenues to our municipalities in 2002. You're not getting a job. I'm asking you: What good work have you ever wanted for our citizens, our nation, and what have we prevented you from doing? You can't show any work.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0248par0112	Tell me about the urban transformation of Misri neighborhood. You said you'd give up if he asked you to. Today we launched the largest urban transformation project in the history of İzmir, a total of 5,400 dwellings led by your party, and my dear brothers and sisters, on November 26th, we delivered it to our Izmir brothers in a short period of nine months. (ARK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) There won't be a single earthquake victim who hasn't returned home in 2022. (AS/TK) We will do much bigger things in İzmir, and we will not leave İzmir at the mercy of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0249par0115	You'll never be on that stand again, it's your last budget! You'll never be on this stand again! Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today we are unfortunately witnessing a threat language being used through Canal Istanbul.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0250par0118	Tell me about the freeway you haven't done in 30 years!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0251par0119	In the urban transformation of Misritown, you said we'd give up on the lecture. The citizen says no, why don't you give up? One minute the contractors are threatened, the heads of state institutions, institutions are threatened, our citizens are threatened. Those who use the language of this threat must know that our people have never listened to threats, and will not listen to them, by God's leave.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0252par0122	You destroyed history, history! Those who use this political language today are nothing but threats in their political past. Our people know this mentality very well, and this mindset is now talking about being lawful with this holy nation without any embarrassment. Those who do not know how to make amends do not ask the people for exemption, nor do they make it lawful for you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0251par0125	The people in Misri district don't give you their blessing either! I'm not saying that you're teaching the teacher you've been threatening in court, that you're afraid of, that your young people won't forgive you, that they won't forgive you, that they won't forgive you, that they won't give you their rights. [[AK PARTI and MHP are applauding from CHP and HDP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Speak of the budget, Minister! The people in Misri district don't give you their blessing either!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0253par0131	Mr. Secretary, one more minute, please complete. We know your agenda very well. And now the bureaucrat is resisting at the Canal Istanbul Project. You've released a lie called "The Canal Istanbul Project." Today we say, "Here are the bureaucrats you've been talking about, we've never stopped talking about any threats, and we'll never shut up again." Just as we built Marmaray yesterday's Marmaray, Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge, Osmangazi Bridge, over a million of our social homes, our national gardens, Allah's permission, with the support of the nation, we will also do the Canal Istanbul Project.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0254par0134	History will answer to you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0255par0135	How did you destroy twelve thousand years of Hasankeyf? Don't worry, we'll continue to produce art day and night, we'll never be involved in rumors, dark scenarios, slanders, accusations, and we won't be anymore.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0256par0139	You have destroyed twelve thousand years of Hasankeyf.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0257par0140	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, and I'm opening for a salute.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0258par0141	Why didn't you approve of the conversion project in Karaböglar? We will always be with our nation as we were yesterday. We consider this nation's service to be the greatest honor, and so we will always be on the road, where we will always be, where our nation needs us.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0259par0144	You're interrupting! Hey, guys, who's your name? Aren't we people? We'll be on the plains of Edirne, in the plains of Iconia, in the mountains of Tripoli, in the paths of Hatay, and in the hands of our government and nation, we'll keep that hand above our chests as one and together. Because we know that this hand, the gentler, is the place of our nation, the most precious corner of our hearts. The prayers of this holy nation are enough for us.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0260par0146	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0259par0147	Get out of here! You destroyed history, you ruined everything.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0261par0148	Mr. Secretary, Erdogan has appointed you. (sing) I don't think our budget with this feeling and thinking (sing) (sing) [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0262par0152	Minister, complete, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0263par0153	Mr. President, what is this? You're barely giving us a minute. With these prayers, we will continue to serve 81 provinces, all 84 million of our citizens day and night, with love and determination.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0264par0156	You've turned the toads into a field of rants! We will crown the 100th year of our republic with precious and precious artifacts led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I wish with these thoughts and feelings that our budget should be good, and once again I salute you with love, respect, and respect.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0265par0161	Yes, the third request for the execution is for the beloved Minister of Family and Social Services Derya Burn. Mr. Burn, come in, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0266par0163	Mr. President, they're broadcasting piracy.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0267par0164	Mr. President, it's being broadcast from the inside.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0268par0165	Mr. President, is it appropriate to broadcast from the inside?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0266par0166	President, they're broadcasting piracy.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0269par0167	Congressmans, I can't hear you, please, if someone tells me. Come in, Mr. Akçay, friends are saying something, but I don't understand.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0270par0169	Mr. President, budget talks are being broadcast live on television, but beyond being broadcast by some MPs on the General Assembly...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0269par0171	Mr. Akçay, I can't hear anything. I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0271par0172	Mr. President, they've stopped acting and started reporting.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0269par0173	Guys, excuse me, please. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0272par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as you know, these budget talks are broadcast live by television, and our nation is watching this live. However, further than being broadcast by some MPs in the General Assembly and being broadcast by mobile phone, interviews with lawmakers have also been compromised by the decision to negotiate with the General Assembly. I offer this to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0273par0178	Thank you. Congressmans, I'd like you to be sensitive about this. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Burn, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0274par0181	Mr. President of our Veteran Assembly and valued MPs, I give you the 2022 budget of our Ministry of Family and Social Services and the final account of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services for 2020. On this occasion, I salute our great coven and our holy nation under its roof. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, the Ministry of Family and Social Services was reorganised on 21 April 2021. As the ministry, we continue our social services and welfare activities for all 83 million of our citizens. Speaking of our organization structure, we serve with 18 units in our central agency, 49,307 in our rural organization, and as an institution, we have Darülaceze presidency. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers continue their supply-oriented services to all our citizens through our social services centers, which are the focus of our institutional services in the context of social services. In the Plan and Budget Commission, we had an opposition deputy who didn't have that much use in the past. Where did those in need come from in your day? That is the reason for what he called it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0275par0186	Mr. President, the humming...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0276par0187	Congressmans, there's a lot of humming, so please stop talking and let's sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0277par0188	He doesn't listen to the ruling party, he doesn't listen to his minister.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0189	We work on supplies; we don't have a single citizen who has access to services, who has no access to them, by going to the feet of our needy citizens, by identifying their needs one by one. Today, as of 2021, we're conducting this through our 375 social services centers. As of 2022, we aim to increase the number of social services centers to 400. Again, we've brought this work to 3.6 million households with our staff in the Family and Social Support Programme (ASDEP) that we've been working on to strengthen our family and community structure. In the coming process, we will include our new friends in our ministry staff, which we recently gave the good news of. Again, education begins as a ministry in the family. From the idea, from the principle, we continue by promoting family education programmes for family members throughout our country. As part of these training programmes, we have reached 2.3 million people since 2013. In the Prenuptial Education Programme, 1.2 million of us have continued our studies in marriage communication and life skills, family law, marriage and health, and so far we have done it nonstop. Amongst our representatives, who had received the talks and proposed, we had this and so forth, and I thank them very much, by the way. In terms of recognition and development of our services, we take our MPs' proposals -- power or opposition at all -- very seriously, their constructive proposals. I'd like to say this one more time in our one-on-one talks, in the speech of the Plan and Budget Commission, and here in front of you. But each one of our Ministry's work is a group with certain disadvantaged groups, which shouldn't be a part of rough political debates, rough political disputes, because it's disadvantaged. So I'd like to say once again that the exhausting criticism of our Ministry's working areas did not harm us in that sense, but the nation responsible for these works. We're wide open to constructive criticism, but we also have the answer to developing politics from here, and we will. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as the Ministry, we continue our ongoing research on social transformations, social activity, sociological transformations so that our work can proceed on rational grounds. In this scope, we launched the fourth study of the Turkish family structure, the field study of the third of the Turkish adolescent profile research as of 2021 this year. We hope to share the results with the public in 2022. Again, in 2022, we will perform the third part of Turkey's college youth profile research, and again, we hope to carry out the search for divorce in 2022, which we have begun to study the reasons for the divorce. Mr. President, you know, our ministry has two basic tasks as part of the Disaster Plan in Turkey: providing psychosocial support, and the other one is co-ordinating social benefits and the same benefits. In this case, in disaster and emergency situations, we continue to maintain psychosocial support and the same aid indefinitely. Since 2013, our colleagues have intervened in 156 different disasters, where they have supported our damaged citizens. Again, we continue to work with the assistance of NGOs and occupational organisations in the co-ordination of our Ministry during disaster and emergencies. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our ministry has made a wasteful claim as well as that the Hassan Bey, Hasan Baltacı Ministry itself has a drug base. And we were very clear when you sent him a question motion in writing in the Plan and Budget talks. As soon as we got to the Ministry, we did the proper disciplinary procedures without waiting. So our sensitivity in this sense is very clear and clear, and we say that in every environment, at every point. I'd like to say that I really consider it a form of abuse, especially when we're talking about a very serious issue, such as addiction, such as substance abuse. I mean, I've recently mentioned a few cases in Turkey -- 40,000 or so employees -- that could be in an environment where substance abuse, even some other types of addiction -- can come out of these -- which is something that I've done the right way to do at the same time as a manager -- under this roof, it's like the Ministry or the government or any other government is not dealing with addiction, especially with drug addiction. Mr. Axeman, since I didn't expect you, you, you, to address me as a courtesy, I'll leave it aside, but it's delicate and it's wrong to take advantage of this issue. Look, we're talking about teenagers, we're talking about kids. We're talking about an effect that destroys people's lives, houses, stoves, jobs, we shouldn't talk about it like that, we shouldn't take it so lightly. Politics is something else, we argue, and I like to argue, but it's not that, so that shouldn't be the reason. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, again, another work we've done as the Ministry, the Charter of Strategy for Roma Citizens, and the Watch and Evaluation Board, which we've created with the Action Plan. We are the government of this country -- 83-84 million, no matter how much we have reached -- that believes that they all have the same rights, that they all have the same rights, and that has served with that faith for 20 years, and that has led the service to the citizens. So, in this context, we continue to work on the problems of our Roma citizens. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our family and family-oriented approaches are one of the main issues of our work, as you can see from our ministry's name. In children's studies, in our study of children -- family studies are already above the name -- our main focus in all of our work on the disabled, our work on the elderly, is primarily family-oriented. What am I trying to say? If the disabled, if the elderly, if the elderly, can live in a family environment, if they can live in a family environment, if they can live in a social environment, then let's support it financially; otherwise, let's support it logistically, with our older support programs; otherwise, let's put a family together -- that's why we're so busy in the foster home model -- if there's no family -- if there's no family, let's get it into institution care. Our main course of action is to maintain the following topics in all social services -- children, disabled, elderly -- in their own family environments, in their social environments, or otherwise. In this context, we provide our children with social and economic support, if not foster care, or institutional care, as I say. There's numbers, I'll pass through here if you'll excuse me. The brochures that we've already offered you have our support, our cash supports, in detail, but if you'll excuse me, there are 19 times the difference between the number of children who were with the foster family in 2002 when we came to power and today, friends, 19 times the number! (EC PARTY Applause) Not only have our children been placed in foster care, but the conditions of our children in institutional care and the quality of their service have been fundamentally, in a very profound way, changed. Changed how? Nineteen years ago, when we took power, the type of ward, in large and crowded buildings, from the environments where 20 to 25 children live in a room today, the type of house where there are at least five or six children in a house today, where children can receive their own responsibilities according to their age, socialize, provide human conditions, provide a direct basis for their personal, psychological, emotional development, education. So, at the children's services point, I think anyone who sees the process we've come from yesterday will deliver it to anyone who knows it. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again, I'd like to express one more important issue under our child services. In 2002, 25 to 30 children receive 1 care staff, while today we give 1 care staff to 2 children. We're doing the work we need to do so that our children don't get hurt by digital environments. It's about mobile child social services, child social services, children's safety programs, digital environments, protecting children from bad habits, protecting them from bad ingredients, and so on. Again, in 2022, the Turkish Children's Research Project will also do research on concrete data related to children. In fact, at the point of disabled and elderly services, we provide constant information. But in order to use the time a little better, I'd like to make a statement to you from the reviews of the lawmakers in the previous hearings. The most basic criticism, you know, is that you can't account for $11.6 billion given to 444,000 people who don't have an obstacle report. 600-odd billion TL...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0279par0204	Reports are delayed, Minister, every six months, too late, meaning...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0205	One second, it's something else, sir. Excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0280par0206	Minister, don't bother.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0207	...you've crossed out 667 billion TL. lt says Mr. Congressman Ali Fazil Butcher. Friends, we've explained this over and over again, and once again, I want to make it clear in the presence of the High Council that everyone will hear. First of all, we've paid 9.47 billion in home care benefits in 2020, 5.16 billion in disability, 14.64 billion in total, so there's no way he's going to do anything like 697 billion.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0281par0209	697 million.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0210	Let's suppose that the slip of the tongue says "Million." Fazil Bey says "Million." Look, I'm just saying, it's not true that 44,000 people were helped without a disability report. There's 442 thousand people with disability reports, there's one, it's in the system. He delivers all his paperwork to our social services centers physically, and then, after that, we pay them what they need. Well, let me put it this way. Since 2006, we have been receiving and paying physically, but the e Τrapor system has been operational in February 2020, so some of the physical disability reports that existed did not enter the e-rapor system, and since it did not enter it, since it saw through the e-rapor, it has found that the two ministries differed from the number of the two ministries, so it proved that the payments were more than 100 per cent of the system integration in 2020.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0281par0212	No, it didn't.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0213	So there's no violation, there's not much of a payment being drawn, sir. We have a payment on citizens who are directly disabled, disabled, entitled, and continue to have rights. On the one hand, the opposition MPs find the disabled's salary low. On the one hand, the disabled say they can't live on the payments they've been paid, which we're doing our best to improve, but on the other hand, they're making payment to the disabled who they know have their physical reports on the other side the subject of a political debate. I refer this contradiction to the conscience of the nation. (PARK PARTY APPLAUSE) Again, our deaf citizens do not understand you. Our deaf citizens understand us.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0281par0215	Do they understand now?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0216	Yes, we, on all channels, provide services for deaf citizens through Turkish sign language interpreters in our ministry's services. We have all the agendas for disabled people, and we've been following good examples of practice anywhere in the world, and we've been developing many good examples of practice ourselves. So what else can be done for the disabled today when we bring our disabled citizens to a time when we provide them with separate support for the disabled child, the nursing homes of the disabled? In an environment where we think about defending our disabled citizens against us is one of the funniest things that can happen.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0282par0218	Get a job, they want a job with the disabled; they want to work with the disabled.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0220	Mr. President, we've been talking about high-profile lawmakers, community-based, family-based work. Our work on disabled people has been significantly...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0283par0222	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0284par0223	Don't you have any words about women, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0224	Mr. President, I'd like some more words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0285par0225	Tell me about the women.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0284par0226	Aren't you going to talk about women as Minister of the Family?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0227	Yeah, I'll get to the woman thing, I'll get to it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0284par0228	Twenty minutes is over.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0229	I'll be there. Now, dear friends, two things about women's work our friends have come up against a lot. Sir, you see, I can tolerate violence on women. Or violence on women can be tolerated. I said! There were all the opposition deputies in that commission, and maybe there were friends among you in that Commission, and the context of that talk is very clear, and it's clear what I said in that speech. It's something that no one objects, understands, because I don't want to be unfair to our friends -- when I come back to the same Commission a week later -- and no one criticizes me in any way -- that's just a little bit, two sentences, which she probably said because she was under a lot of pressure -- and that's not how I'm going to have a conversation, friends, she's not going to keep it. I've been fighting violence for 25 years.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0286par0232	Why do you think the Istanbul Convention...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0233	Those who talk about violence will look after the mothers of Diyarbakır, and those who talk about violence against women will look after the girls who have been raised to Kandil, aged 9-10.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0286par0235	Look at their mother on Saturday.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0236	I've been to Diyarbakır twice in seven months. How many times have you been to Diyarbakır? How many times have you been to Diyarbakır? How many times have you been to Diyarbakır? I've been there twice in seven months, twice, how many times have you been there? You're the last group to talk about violence, you're the last group to talk about violence.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0286par0237	Where were you, Minister, when Noble pointed out his mother on Saturday?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0238	Yeah, violence doesn't keep us here, violence doesn't keep us here.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0286par0239	The women still resist, on the street...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0287par0240	Know your place, you can't talk to our group like that, so be modest!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0241	It's clear what we say, what we say yesterday, what we say today, what we say tomorrow, what we say tomorrow. [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks, noise from HDP rows]] Twenty years...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0288par0244	What do you think of the Istanbul Convention, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0289par0245	Know your place!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0246	Another friend of ours told me that after I left the Istanbul Convention, violence was reduced. He said that I had established a correlation like this. Friends, look, I have personally stated that I would never build such a correlation, that this correlation was wrong; that the Istanbul Convention was just a text, that a law enforcement activity, like violence, could not cause a multi-dimensional, complex issue, nor would it be possible to eliminate it alone.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0288par0247	Remove the Constitution, which is the text.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0278par0248	In every environment, before I became Minister, when the Istanbul Convention was in effect, and after I became Minister, after the Istanbul Convention was lifted, I always said the same thing, look, there's not a single speech I can't stand behind.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0290par0250	Why is the Istanbul Convention...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0288par0251	Why did you lift it?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0291par0252	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0292par0253	Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. There's not a word I can't stand behind, just don't twist it, just don't twist it. It's obvious what happened to all of them.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0293par0256	Did you or did you not tell her that violence could be tolerated, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0292par0257	For 20 years, there has been a government in politics, in social life, in everyday life, in which women actively participate in life. Women's guesthouses are a power that regulates work and employment opportunities in order to help women participate in the field for economic support, to help them maintain the balance of business and family life, to make women a part of social life, economic life, political life. Yeah, we did, and we're proud of it. We are a government that does not need to take advice about women's work, about women's participation in life from anyone else.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0294par0259	You have friends who say women work because they have unemployment. Mr. Secretary, have you spoken against it?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0295par0260	Mr. Secretary, what are you proud of?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0296par0261	Why isn't anyone in jail?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0297par0262	Yes, why are there so few shares in the budget for the National Directorate of Women's Status? That came as a criticism.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0298par0263	Why was Kurdish not included in the family? Kurdish women in this country...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0297par0264	Dear friends, we have a lot of work in our budget for women, other than our share of the status quo. Look, I don't have a lot of time to give you a very simple example, so I'm going through it fast.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0299par0266	Actually, there isn't any, Mr. Secretary, but your time is up.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0297par0267	Mr. President, two more minutes.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0299par0268	Okay. Finish your words. I'll put it together in two minutes. In 2020, 53 per cent of regular welfare providers are women, 52 per cent of those who receive long-term benefits. In terms of budgetation, we continue budgetary work that maintains equality between men and women. So just for the budget of the Women's Status General Directorate, which is for staff and so on, sir, that's what the government does for women only. It's either not reading the budget or it's really bad politics. Because our work is included in all ministry services, including women, and I'd like to express that.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0300par0270	Women are half the people you call women, women are half the people!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0301par0271	Mr. President, dear friends, I, of course, would like to talk a lot about martyr relatives, family and community services, welfare benefits, other Ministry work, but I'm afraid it's over. I don't want to push your patience too hard. Therefore, our Ministry of Family and Social Services budget for 2022 is 66 billion 131 million and 543 thousand liras. Our ministry will continue to improve its capacity and services for social services and assistance that target the entire community, with this budget as a priority, and to provide solutions to new service models and areas, new challenges and risks that will arise. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ten seconds...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0302par0274	Good luck with that. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0301par0276	The Ministry of 2021, thanking all the people who worked for our activities, our colleagues, and wish our budget for 2022 to be a blessing to our country, to our Ministry, to all of you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0303par0279	Mr. President, will you give it to me now or later...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0304par0280	She didn't say anything. She said she was the only one against him.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0303par0281	I'm a politician, you'd appreciate it- he probably got pressured, so he came after him and criticized me. What is this, a tease?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0304par0282	Yes, he saw pressure. He said, right. You'll have to wait your turn.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0303par0283	Okay, that's what I said.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0305par0284	Mr. President, you can't drink water here. The Minister is drinking water there. Get us some water. The Civil Code says no eating. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0304par0285	Okay, Mr. Tanal, we haven't seen him. The Minister's first budget won't happen again. Yes, the last request for an executive is for Labour and Social Security Minister Vedat Bilgin. Mr. Scholar, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0289	Mr. President, the esteemed rulers of our political parties, my dear MPs, my dear nation, I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Labor's budget for 2022. I'd like to introduce the budget to your views, and I'd like to thank you for your contributions. Precious President, valued lawmakers, working life is one of the most important areas of our social existence. Labour and production are a form of activity that man himself has done on earth. Thus, the Ministry of Labor has a function that protects labor and improves production. We, the Ministry of Labor, are obliged to protect the workers, their right to work, the law of work, the will of the Turkish state and of the great nation, in the legal and normative framework of our great Parliament. Thus, we, the Ministry of Labor, also have a mandate to uphold the law of labor within the normative order, which is the product of the will established by our Parliament. It is our responsibility to carry out this mission under any circumstances. Thus, only people are happy when labor and working relationships are fulfilled within a principle of justice and justice. In this regard, we are aware that the law that protects labor is valid in all business, in all businesses, against all employers, and that the Ministry of Labor is the guarantee of its operation. Therefore, we do not allow any attempt to restrict our employees' right to work, to our workers' rights, to his freedoms. In this regard, the democratic system has broad possibilities, it has broad possibilities, and union freedoms, union organisation is at the top of them. Of course, when we carefully examine the relationship between labor and capital, the problem is that theoretically, labor is powerless against capital; social work, organised collective labor, must be protected against capital. Democratic states and democratic countries, wherever they are in the process of democratisation, according to it, try to investigate the labor through a protective system. The Republic of Turkey has significant gains in this regard today. Sure, there are some problems. More important than these problems, we all know that the rule of September 12th, the remains of the arrangements for the working life of September 12th, are still alive. In particular, we all know that our country needs a new constitution for the immediate removal of the september 12th regime's sediment for working life, even the removal of all its sediment for our political lives. We find it very important that this constitution be carried out by this great Parliament.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0307par0294	Bring the law, let's fix it together.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0295	Of course, we have to protect the labor because labor is weak in the face of capital. Of course that's the case, but there's another problem here. At the same time, in order for production to continue, production opportunities need to be maintained, so that business, the owners of that business, must continue their production activities in that framework, by obeying the law of the labor of capital, by accepting the law of labor. For many years, Turkey has dealt heavily with these problems -- in the 1970s, in the 80s -- with the intervention of the military coup. But the struggle that Turkey has fought towards democratisation for the past 20 years, the phase it's come to, and you also know this process of democratisation that supports this stage. Let's get democratized. It's not something that's going to happen. Democracy has to be behind social dynamics, so there's no democracy in a place with closed community structures, social structures. Democracy happens in a different society, in a society where modernisation progresses. Modernization brings social differences, social differences, class variations. This process inevitably creates the emergence of the working class and its organisation. As democracy grows stronger on these social foundations, the political will becomes democratic as it transforms democratisation into a political project. And we need to consider the important distances we've made in the democratization process not as spontaneous things, but as transformations caused by a political will to meet these social demands. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, friends, the fundamental driving force of social change in Turkey is the development of Turkey. Turkey is moving rapidly from an agricultural society, from a closed peasant community to an industrial society. Look, we can see a lot of signs of this, we can find it. Turkey has become a country that exports industrial products today. In Turkey's production structure, its industry was prominent as a leading form of production. As we travel from Ankara to Istanbul, we pass almost entirely through industrial areas, through factory areas. Industrial regions, organised industrial regions, all of these structures reveal how Turkey's production power has risen. This, of course, is a building that speeds up social change, gives acceleration. In this process, labor has a special position. Both the Minister of Labor and the Ministry of Labor: its duty is to protect the work, to improve the labor. In this regard, when our employees face any obstacles, they are surrounded by Turkey's Labour Ministry, and we as Labour Minister are standing by them. Don't let anyone hesitate about it. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I'd like to tell you about a recent incident in Istanbul, an exemplary incident.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0308par0301	What about minimum wage, Minister?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0302	I think if you listen to this example, you might be able to ask your question healthier. Those who read the newspapers or watch the news in Istanbul will know. A large investment, foreign enterprise -- foreign partnership also -- has kicked 150 of our women out in one night because they were organized in Istanbul's workers' factory. The next day, the number of workers was 450. When I heard that, when the unions sent it to me, I interfered. I said that the law of the Republic of Turkey is valid here. Everyone who works here can't say that I don't know this law, no matter what employer, but the local stranger can't say that I don't know this law, he'll find us in front of the class. (AK PARTI and HP rows) I called our governor of Istanbul and said: "See the CEO of Istanbul, remind him that the law of the Republic of Turkey is valid here, or tomorrow I'll come with the workers, and I'll stand at his door, and I'll make him follow the law." (AK PARTI and UMP in order) The following day after that problem has been resolved. To all of our unions, to all of our employees' organizations... when they visited me last week, there were three major confederations of political confederation officials in different views, you know, I told them, I don't care what you think, I look at you as an organization of labor, anyone who prevents labor, anyone who tries to take advantage of its rights. (EC PARTY) This is a reflection of the value we put on our efforts, but it is also my responsibility as Minister of Labor, my duty as Minister of Labor, and I am obliged to do so.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0309par0305	So what's the minimum wage?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0306	Dear friends, of course, organization is very important, it's very important to organize trade unions in workplaces, but the unionisation rate in Turkey is still very low. In 2013, you know, the unionization rate, which is 9.2%, is still at a very low level in 2021 today. We need to increase all these levels, we need to increase the rates, but we have a business structure in Turkey, which is yet to be established from small businesses. So, in the union struggle, our unions didn't get enough results in that.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0309par0307	I congratulate you on your support for the harvest, but, Minister, what's your minimum wage offer?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0308	It is our duty to make arrangements to encourage unionisation, and I believe the High Assembly will do it. What are we gonna do? In the coming period, I will perform the practice of the white flag to create a consciousness about it; we have completed all preparations. I'm going to talk about our minimum wage talks in a minute, because of the weight of that process, we haven't been able to make it happen, but we're going to make it happen. What are we gonna do? If a workplace is organized, if there is a collective contract, if there are workers' rights being paid, if they are an honest employer, if they pay their taxes, we will bring there symbolically some ease; we will give the white flag. On the white flag, it will say: This is a proper business and organised business.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0310par0310	He's a worker's friend.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0311	He's a friend of labor, a friend of labor. And I believe that in terms of consumers, that factory will produce a positive discrimination in terms of the products produced by that company. We'll put it into practice in the next few days.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0312	Mr. Secretary, our workers are waiting for the minimum wage rate, and what's going to happen? Minimum wage...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0313	Dear friends, of course, Mr. Mahmut often asks, "What about the Asgarial fee?" The minimum wage is very important, there's a lot of numbers going around about minimum wage.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0314	What do you suggest, Minister, your advice is important.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0315	A variety of predictions are being made, the media is discussing them, and in politics, it's a meaningful thing to discuss, of course, something important.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0316	What do you suggest, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0317	Let me get this straight: sometimes there are 15 million, sometimes 20 million numbers that work at minimum wage, and that's not true. I know the numbers right because we're getting taxes on him, you know, we're getting bonuses. We have about 6 million minimum wage workers.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0318	How much are you offering, Minister?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0319	Now, we need to consider the integrity of these with their families. Another thing we need to focus on is that minimum wage, of course, is a minimum wage for workers who work on it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0320	There must be a price for an honorable life, Minister, a price for an honorable life.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0321	Thus, he has an impact that will determine other fees at different levels. In this regard, we've had a study done as a minister -- Mr. President, we've asked the workers, we've asked the employers of Turkey, we've asked the professionals, and the professionals' views are very important here. The vast majority of our workers -- 37 percent -- said they had expectations between $3,750 and $4,000. A certain group, a smaller ratio -- a 9 percent ratio -- is higher, they've pronounced more than 4,000 digits, and they've pronounced them further down. We've seen workers who work in small businesses pronounce numbers at lower levels. It's not for no reason. We realized this better when we went deeper with another part of our research. They say: "Yes, we want our wages to increase, but we want our work to continue. "
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0322	What do you suggest, Minister?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0323	I don't know what you people are expecting, but we're going to do a serious minimum wage increase in society that meets the expectations of our workers. This will create a holiday atmosphere for Turkey, for our employees, especially for those of us with low income minimum wage, and I'd like to announce it now.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0325	But no one can sleep tonight, Minister, if you pronounce the number.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0326	Dear friends, of course, it's more meaningful that the minimum wage be explained at a higher level today because we're going through a period of fluctuations in the economy, an inflationist environment. The minimum wage for him has been discussed with such heat, it's been a form of wage that's been attributed to such importance, and we understand that.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0311par0327	What do you have in mind, Minister?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0328	You'll find out on Monday.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0312par0329	Mr. Tanal, excuse me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0330	Yes, so when we run this process, we care about minimum wage; it protects our employees, it protects our workers; it also says that in this process, in the inflationist environment of Turkey, the economic fluctuations of the entire world after its pandemic would bring about all Europe, all developed economies to great challenges. I'd like to point out that we're going to be able to detect a level of relief with that thought.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0313par0331	Mr. Secretary, pensioners expect a raise. The pensioners are in pretty bad shape, too. 13 million of our pensioners are waiting to hear from you, Minister. How much will you give them?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0312par0332	Mr. Demirtaş, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0333	Congressmans, of course, the minimum wage between the establishments of our democratic system is very important, but another institution as important as it is is a collective contract. In the past year, we have raised a percentage of our public workers in the last July to above their minimum wage by moving more than 4,000 liras to the groups of our public workers, especially those who receive the lowest income. But we did one other thing, which is that we also put in our contract to make a difference in inflation over that price level when inflation numbers were explained. We did the same thing in our contract with the officers. In our contract with the officers, we raised the minimum officer's fee to $4,800, so we made the same difference. As a matter of fact, we've been sitting down with officers' confederations lately, talking, telling them...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0314par0335	I swear to God, Minister, when I was a deputy here, I never said a word to you, but I'm not talking again. If possible, what's the minimum wage?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0336	We said, "We stand by a promise that will transform him into a social welfare difference when inflation changes over the collective agreement we made with you, and we stand by that signature."
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0315par0338	Is the difference going to be the real inflation difference, or is it the inflation of TUİK?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0339	Thus, there is no need for anyone to expect such a thing, and if they do, they are in vain. We represent a fee policy protecting Turkey's workers, an approach that embraces a social policy in power. We're determined to keep this going. No matter what you think, we're determined to keep it going.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0316par0340	I swear, Minister, our friends who work in this House get paid three kinds of wages. Right now, stenographers get three kinds of wages, three kinds there, not one species.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0306par0341	I'd also like to stay here on top of something else. In the coming days, we're going to have to get this...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0316par0342	By God, our friends get three kinds of wages.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0317par0343	Mr. Tanal, talk to me later, it's a shame!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0318par0344	Mr. Tanal, you're always sabotaging, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0319par0345	Democracy is the regime of those who know the argument, those who continue the debate, those who listen to it, not out of courtesy, but out of respect for democracy. It doesn't fit here, it's your habit, but it doesn't fit here.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0320par0347	He's getting three kinds of salary, our friends.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0319par0348	Dear friends, another matter I'd like to share with you is the matter of 3600, the issue of 3,600 additional indicators.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0321par0349	We're asking about the pensioners, Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0319par0350	The 3600 additional indicators technically include what groups, should they be organized, should they just be given to a specific group, what should their criteria be? We want to make an arrangement that won't hurt the sense of right in society by 3,600. So we've done this technical work, and we'll collect our commission next week. Who will be on the commission? We'll have social partners, we'll have unions, then we'll send them to the Supreme Assembly, and by your discretion, the 3600 additional indicators are no longer a promise. The meaning of the contract is we put it into practice, that's what it means. We signed it in 2022. I'm sure you know what a collective contract means. Therefore, when he comes to the House, we are confident that our Parliament will do its due.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0322par0351	Is there anything, EYT?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0319par0352	Dear MPs, my dear President, one of the problems ahead is the public personnel problem. As you know, it's often criticised in the House, and rightfully, there are a lot of different ways to employ staff. There's an irregularity here, an imbalance here, a confusion here, a dysfunction here...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0323par0354	Finish your words, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0319par0355	The democratic society is a society that organises functional variations in industrial society. At least doing it in the bureaucracy is more important than anything. In this regard, we've also put the contract issue on the agenda of staff after 3600 additional indicators. With regard to the matter of contract personnel, we have concluded that by completing our work, we have resolved that matter in the best possible way, and no one has any doubt. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Dear President, the matter of employment and unemployment in Turkey is a matter of great importance. From Turkey's experience, we know from Turkey's economic policies that the 5 per cent growth of Turkey is creating a serious increase in employment, so it creates a job of about 750,000 people, 700,000 people, but 7 per cent growth creates over 1 million or 1 million jobs. Turkey has been growing for three quarters, and this growth is not random. If three quarters of an economy is growing...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0324par0358	Growth didn't create employment in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0325par0359	People don't get a cut without growing up.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0324par0360	There are 10 million unemployed.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0326par0361	It's an economic thing, anyone who knows about economic theory knows. If a quarter of an economy is growing, it won't happen by accident.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0324par0362	The capital grew.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0326par0363	Not if a quarter of an economy is growing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0324par0365	If Turkey is growing, where is the money, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0326par0366	It's a rule, but I don't know any economics. If you say that, then I have nothing to say to you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0327par0367	When there's no income justice, the rich get richer.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0326par0368	But I'll tell you something else: if it also grows by 20 billion dollars a month of exports, then don't recognize any economics rules if you want to. It's a subject that economics students learn in first class, dear friends. Yeah, I'm, you know, a teacher, but I'm not in the mood for those classes here, and we don't have time for that. But at least I'd like to underline certain principles. Sorry to remind you of that. Dear friends, we run a variety of projects in terms of fighting unemployment within the Employment Institution, we have various applications, we have programs, we have active labor force programs, we have passive labor program... what does passive labor force mean? You know, improve the work of current people, prevent jobs loss, develop them, adapt to new technologies, adapt to new professions and so on.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0328par0371	Finish your words, Minister.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0326par0372	Thank you, Mr. President. At the same time, we have new projects in young industry facing young unemployed, including increased number of universities in Turkey, especially due to the increasing number of universities. We have a program that will make them business by putting them directly into the industry, by training them in the industry, by supporting them with the economy. It's not an imaginary project; when we put them into work, we'll give them certain support, and when they do, we'll ask the employers who employ them with our support within three months or six months of putting them into work. What this means is that there is a grown labor force, but these are not the workforces that we want. Here we train the grown labor force in the industry, we train it in the production process; get it in the business, get it in the business. So we're going to have the relationship between the business market and education, and we're going to be doing it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0328par0376	Minister, I'll turn on your microphone for the last time to greet you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0326par0377	Of course, there's a lot more I want to talk about, but these issues reveal how we look at the matter, a social policy approach that protects labor and sweat. On this occasion, I give my regards to the President, the High Council, our great nation who listens on their screens, and I thank you very much for your patience.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0329par0380	What happened to 4/C people, 4/B employees, subcontractors who couldn't get a staff, temps, what happened to the budget?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0330par0381	Members of parliament, you have been met with the request for a statement on behalf of the administration. Now, the second request for word on behalf of the individuals is for Mr. Gamze Taşcıer. Mr. Stonemaker, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0331par0385	Thank you, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I just heard Mr. Ministers' presentation, I wondered if they had mixed up the notes or if the countries had been confused, but when I came to the stand, I understood why you left your reading glasses on the stand. (CHP and HDP clapping in rows) Because otherwise you don't have a chance to draw such a pink picture. Of course, your job is difficult because you have to defend a budget that melts before the General Assembly arrives, but no matter what you do, you can't claim that this budget is stable in a country where there's a Turkish dollar that melts every second of every day.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0332par0386	Those glasses aren't reading glasses, they're beach glasses!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0331par0387	You can wear it...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0332par0388	Those are beach glasses!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0331par0389	You talk about tomatoes all the time, though. Now I'm going to read you a word, and I'm going to read a sentence: we're going to destroy debt, interest, currency clamps. Let's win this war side by side with each other. Let's go out victorious in the economic liberation war. You'll say that the president of the AKP has spoken somewhere again because this sentence is familiar, but this sentence belongs to Prime Minister Tansu Ciller 27 years ago. So you really can't market the economy as success to run the country for 20 years and bring it back to the point of a war for salvation. (Applause from CHP rows) The central bank, the central bank, we've stopped dealing with inflation. You can't sell the president of the Central Bank as responsible for the increase in foreign currency rates in a country where he is the great economist Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (Applause from CHP rows) When the increase comes, we struggle with obesity. When the rise comes, the benefits of walking have come. When the increase comes, the coffee is bad for the heart, the coffee is bad for the heart. You can't convince anyone of your propaganda bulletins that have made headlines. Every chance you get, there's oil lines, there's tube tails. It's an example of you saying, "There's a process today with quota candy sales and chained oil cans." It's also tragic that when the Republic was 50 years old, you formed politics through Turkey under the embargo in the 1970s and brought this country 50 years ago as the republic approached its 100th century in the 21st century. Dear lawmakers, there are five things in this country that are constantly changing: AKP's foreign policy, foreign currency rates, fuel prices, the President of the Central Bank and Minister of Economy. And yet, from needle to thread, tomatoes to potatoes, everything goes up. I don't know, have you recently shopped at the grocery store, people are running to the grocery store, because the price of the product is going up until they pick up a product from the shelf and come to the safe, and they're negotiating to buy a house, and the price of the house goes up until they get to the deed. They shake hands for the car, the house price goes up until we get to the notary. Of course, in your rule, you have emptied many concepts and changed the concept of gift goods. Three years ago, I told a newborn baby to wear diapers instead of gold. I said, and now when people visit homes, they're able to deliver 32 ▪ toilet paper to each other. The toilet paper is almost sold at the jewelry store. Well, in an inflation scheme like this, you'll say, "Ya, the opposition party, you're always criticizing, or is there no price-losing product in this country, there is no product that challenges inflation?" There is, valued MPs. The book of Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the only product that defies inflation. It was 40 liras when it went on the market. Now it's $25.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0333par0393	Did you get the book?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0331par0394	Yeah, I got the book, and I wish you'd read three pages. Although I don't think the author read this book either, but whatever. I also have a call from here to TÜİK: Make sure they put this book in the next one while they prepare the inflation basket. They'd have to be instructed to do so, but if you listen to my suggestion, you'll reach that single-digit inflation house you're aiming at. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0334par0397	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0331par0398	Dear lawmakers, in 20 years you've made the country so much that you've created millions of people whose middle income has led to poverty and poverty and hunger. Now these people don't want to work for survival, they want a Turkey where they're getting richer and richer. Young people want a Turkey they can't count on to have coffee with their friends in the cafe. Because he uses a smartphone in the 21st century, he doesn't want to talk about it. Today, people say, "Yes, to survive." And the days are coming when that will come. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0334par0401	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on the fifth round are complete. First of all, I promise Mr. Kerestecioglu without picking on him. Here's to the stand.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0335par0406	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, if I were a person who could act under pressure, I wouldn't be a feminist in this country first, and I wouldn't be one of the organizers of the first march in this country after the 1980 military coup. Again, if I were a person who acted under pressure, I wouldn't be a HDP MP. Because I'd rather have a comfortable life like you than be at a party that struggles against such pressure, but I'm not in the mood to act with pressure. [[Applause from HDP rows]] It's just that I think you might understand that I respond differently to noble and prototypes, but I believe in women's solidarity with women, no matter what party they're from. In fact, I'd like to talk to you about the Istanbul Convention that you're actually defending today, unfortunately, which you're in no position to defend, how we could have prevented the women who were killed in this country with that contract, actually with the control that that contract brought to all the institutions, and I wish that no one would come into the men's game and that the contract hadn't been put into effect and that contract hadn't been removed, that it's still alive today. Yes, women's solidarity is one thing, my language is another, but pressure, seeing and not criticizing against it is another. I don't think you understand my criticism, but I'm clearly criticizing you for the Istanbul Convention. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0336par0411	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0337par0412	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0336par0413	Mr. Beştaş, on the stand, please. Two minutes without teasing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0337par0415	The Minister of the Family picked on me directly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0336par0416	I know, Mr. Family Minister picked on me. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0337par0419	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, obviously the Minister of the Family had never followed and did not know the women's rights debate in this General Assembly; I listened carefully to a family minister's speech, and frankly, at the end of the conversation -- with our intervention -- in the last two or three minutes, he would talk about women in extensions, so-called women, he would rather attack us and tease us as he always did. For one thing, we're not the last group to talk about women's rights, we're the face-to-face of this country, with 40 percent female representation, 40 percent female representation, 50 percent gender equality. So, when you talk about women's rights, think about us, talk about it later. You, who have lifted the Istanbul Convention, you who have protected women in ties and uniforms, you who have used their mothers' political intentions, you who have approved the marriage of 15-year-old girls, you who have removed the woman's name from the Ministry, you who have shut down all women's institutions with the hands of trustees; women who are not safe in your power. You asked me why we don't visit the mothers of Diyarbakır, and I'll tell you why we can't visit them because of your shield. I've been there so many times, I've been in touch once because the I.A.'s armband won't let us go because you're using them for political purposes, but you're not doing the same thing for their mothers on Saturday. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I don't accept your assessment of the woman through the family alone, I certainly don't. Women are individuals, and with so much women's poverty, with so much women's unemployment, while women's murders have risen to violence, we refuse to accept your speech as Minister of the Family every day while women are being slaughtered.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0338par0424	Congressmans, I'm going to give my word to the members of the group who have requested the question-answer before the process. Mr. Erhan. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0339par0427	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've been negotiating budgets since morning, first of all. In fact, there have been very useful, helpful suggestions within the scope of these budgets. I think it would be helpful for our country to consider these proposals by the Council of Ministers. Today is the 46th anniversary of the death of the great poet, writer, great thinker Nihal Horseless. I'd like to bring up a few issues here, Mr. President, based on the importance of the matter. Now, one of them is city hospitals that are built within the framework of these public-private cooperation projects. From here, we need to see a very serious burden on the budget; the numbers gradually start to come out. We pay contractors for city hospitals in two pens -- you know, of course, Mr. Secretary knows the subject very well -- to the contractors. One of them is the purchase of goods and services, and the other is paid from capital costs under rent and guarantees. By the end of 2021 -- I'm going to say it in terms of billions -- $2.1 billion is paid in current costs; 2.9 is paid in capital costs, or rather $3 billion. Now, when we look at the three-year budget, the next three years will be paid for $4.5 billion in current expenses, and $7.8 billion in capital costs for city hospitals. Now, looking at it like this, at the end of 2024, we'll already have $12.3 billion. Now, of course, it's important to remember that the investment cost of hospitals under these public-private cooperation projects is $11.6 billion. We'll be spending almost as much as he does by the end of 2024. Of course, there's going to be another 20-year period, and if we agree that the 2024 numbers are fixed in dollars, there's going to be another $54 billion there. So 13 city hospitals are going to cost us roughly $66 billion when we look at the numbers today. This is a very serious burden, so the budget cannot be lifted from it. I would like to say that it would be in the best interest of the country to review the matter and to have a contract renovated by you. Mr. Labour Minister said we're protecting the bread. Mr. Secretary, you can't protect the effort. So right now, we've got nine months' worth of revenues in 2021. Currently, in nine months of national income -- nine months total -- the share of wages in national income has dropped to 27.8 per cent. This is the lowest rate since 2013. So the wages are falling in national income, so unfortunately, you can't keep up the hard work in the labor-employment relationship. Now, the other thing, of course, is that our Ministry of Family has issues that intersect with our Ministry of Labor. For one thing, we have serious problems with income distribution, and income distribution is rapidly deteriorating in Turkey; you have to see this. Although the most recent revenue distribution data has 2019 reference years, there's a distortion, and we're not really seeing pandemic effects here. We'll see that there will be a serious problem with the distribution of revenues that will be announced next year. Turkey is experiencing a very serious deep poverty. I use the definition of poverty based on the presidential annual decree; according to him, there are 18 million poor people in Turkey as of 2020, which is 21.9% to the total population. This is an important issue, and Turkey must implement an absolute-inclusive poverty-fighting programme.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0340par0436	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0339par0437	Child poverty is also a deep issue; there are 7.4 million children who are poor, which is 1/3 of our children, which is now 1/3 of our children who are poor. Child labor; we have 720,000 child laborers, an important problem, that must be settled. Women's employment is already known in Turkey that it is low, but the pandemic is most affected by women, and the pandemic is even lower. In December 2017, women's employment rate was 29.8 per cent, and according to the latest data released -- we can compare it to 27.5 per cent, because it's been fixed exponentially -- is down to 27.5 per cent, women's employment is down from 34.1 per cent to 32.3 per cent. So we have to put our women in the workforce absolutely.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0340par0439	For the last time... finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0339par0440	Mr. Secretary, we'd like you to keep the words of 3600. You've had your explanations. The 4/B contract issue is important. It's extremely important here. Their pensions are very low, our pensions are being severely overwhelmed by this increasing inflation, inflation; something has to be done here absolutely. Of course, the other issue is the age-old pensioner, and Turkey is looking forward to an absolute study on this issue. So about 4.8 million are victims of maybe 20 million, along with their families. And as a final issue, this gender-based wage difference is very deep in our country. Look, the female sex-based wage difference is 21.1 per cent, especially when women work off the books, the rate goes up to 24.2 per cent, the gender-based rate difference. Women who don't have children get 11 percent less than those who don't, and there's such an imbalance among women.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0340par0443	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0339par0444	You know, on the one hand we say to our women, "Make a child." We say, "We support it, it should be, the population is a critical indicator." But here we have to protect our women, especially our women, who make children, especially our women, who are mothers, we have to provide them with a much better way of life. There is a serious difference between working parents and working fathers, and when we look here, 19 per cent of working mothers get paid less than working fathers. So I'd like to submit to the budget of our 4 Ministry that since it can't protect the family, because it can't protect the environment, because it can't protect the workers, and because it can't protect our health, we're going to vote against it as the PTA Party Group. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0340par0446	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0341par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. The Coronavirus pandemic reveals the institutional capacity and organizational skills of all countries. In this scope, Turkey has been positively separated from many countries with health infrastructure, competent staff and all institutional structures and organisational ability. Turkey has been an exemplary country in the fight against pandemics. In the pandemic period, the measures taken during vaccines and medications throughout the world have allowed our country to have no problems with vaccines and medicines. All vaccine studies for pandemic have been supported, as a result of our local vaccine, Turkovac vaccine. The first step is that health care centres have been expanded so that health care can be provided in a more comprehensive and more widespread way. We congratulate our health minister, Mr. Fahrettin Husband, and all of our health workers for their successful work in health and their selfless efforts in the pandemic process, and I give thanks to our health workers. Mr. President, there has been a serious debate between employees, unions and employers at every time the minimum wage has been determined in our country. These days, studies to determine minimum wage have been conducted, with success and hope, by establishing good dialogues among the relevant parties. We know there's a lot of work going on to increase union and collective contracting businesses. ▪ We also see increased measures and audits for business security by saying safety first. We extend our congratulations and thanks to Mr. Vedat Bilgin, the Minister of Labour and Social Security, who has made successful efforts to communicate with the relevant parties, the partners, since his appointment, and to all the members of the Ministry who have worked with sacrifice, and to wish their budgets to the best. Family is the most fundamental unit of society, the guarantee of the future of countries. I'd like to express our satisfaction with the efforts to protect your family. We also know that the pandemic process continues by increasing support for needy families, disabled and age citizens. We also hope that the measures for preventing physical and psychological abuse against women or children will continue by increasing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0342par0452	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0341par0453	We thank the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Derya Burn, and those who contribute to the work and services of the Ministry, who personally reach the needy families, the elderly, and the disabled, working with great sacrifice in the pandemic process. Mr. President, there have been unusual floods, landslides and fires in our country and the world due to the climate crisis in 2021. There have been immediate attempts to repair the damage caused by these disasters and the victims of our affected citizens, and the victims have been greatly compensated. We also see projects that have brought value to our cities, to our nature, and to our environment, especially in the nation's gardens. I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0343par0457	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0341par0458	The National Strategy and Action Plan against Desertization has been put into practice to minimize our loss of land. The study of the Zero Waste Project, which was launched in 2017, is also admirable. We appreciate the efforts to build insulated solar energy systems in all newly constructed structures by implementing saving energy by implementing smart city applications with a savings axis. Sustainable green economies and green technologies are supported. Urban transformation projects against earthquakes have been accelerated. Because of his successful work, I congratulate Mr. Murat Foundation, Minister of Environment, Urbanism and Climate, and all of the Ministry's employees, and wish their budgets to the best of them, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0343par0460	Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0344par0461	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, we've listened to the ministers very carefully, and we've had ministers who've done some really neat presentations and defended their own Ministry; that's important, of course. And then there's the minister, and he's got the same tradition. Either you do black propaganda or you write soap bubbles scripts, Mr. Corporate, you're a continuer of this tradition, nothing more. Clearly, you are under the influence of the nobles. I call them noble children, for not only is Solomon noble, but also the faithful nobleman. Now, what does the Minister, who can't answer his claims, do, as is the case with Solomon Noble? He will attack HDP immediately. What do the people who can't respond to allegations about you do? He'll have it wrapped up in HDP immediately. You're a continuer of the same tradition, and we've seen it here one more time. Look, I'm returning to you all the baseless, unresolved claims you've made about us. Go first, learn a little and come back. Look, why am I saying this? Today, here, I wasn't going to talk about it, but you forced us to talk. Why is that? Now, this is the continuation of the plot started three or four days ago by your Minister, your close colleague, and your friend, Solomon Nobleman. Where? Cizrede. What did he do? Cizre has raided our county building and taken 26 people into custody. Why? He's a set-up, he's got to bring his back. But when we got used to breaking down the door when we entered the county building -- you do it all the time, he can't get in like a human -- he's the employees of the nobleman -- but he's not the only one, they did something else. He openly attacked the values of Kurdish people within the district building of Cizre, and they became Kurdish enemies. How? Look, Deniz Poyraz is our friend who was murdered in İzmir. His poster, hanging on the wall, stepped underfoot and chewed up law enforcement; clearly an attack on the value of the Kurdish people. But not only that, but the Taybet mother's seven-day-and-seven-night funeral, the Taybet mother's poster that was left on the street, they stepped on her feet, and they openly attacked the values of the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0345par0465	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0344par0466	But not only that, that armband did worse. Roboski ya, Roboski... took posters of 34 of our people who were killed by planes and killed by bombings and more than half of them were children... and chewed them right under their feet, so they ripped up the values of the Kurdish people. Here's your Kurdish enemy policies, here's your security policy, here's your style, we're not the ones that get people up the mountain.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0346par0468	Get out of here!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0344par0469	HDP, Peoples' Democratic Party is the party fighting for a democratic and peaceful solution to the mountains, fighting for violence, but your security policies, your assimilationist policies, your denial policies, your Kurdish enemy policies, I'll tell you that as well.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0347par0471	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0344par0472	I'm completing it, sir. Look, you're not bored, you're talking shamelessly; you've seized all our municipalities -- except for a few -- by trustee's hands, you've lost the will of the people, so you don't have to serve the people, we've served in the area you've evacuated from those municipalities. All the players in the field, you've got the goalkeeper out, you've cleared the castle, we're throwing a goal. You say, "Is there such a thing?" No. The Kurdish people won't forget what you did. He's your trustees, and he's behind all the corruption, theft, and illegal spending, and you're behind them.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0347par0475	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0344par0476	I'm completing it, sir. Look, one more thing to remind you, Hasankeyf Ya, Hasankeyf, that you have left twelve thousand years of history and culture under water and destroyed it for 12,000 years! Now, you know that your president, Hasankeyf, has set up a private track for the opening of the opening, and he said: "Look, HDP, can you do these things?" I'm not saying that we can't, we can't, we won't, we won't. It's very important because you've destroyed twelve thousand years of history, and we don't. You destroyed the historical and cultural heritage of the Kurdish people, the human heritage, and we don't. That's what the Minister of the Environment is defending. He's the one who's been destroyed. And you come out here and you're proud to tell it. That's not it. Here's your answers.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0347par0478	Mr. Oluç, this is the last time I'll open it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0344par0479	I wish you wouldn't go there like that, but your Paris Climate Agreement...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0348par0480	He's propaganda, he's PKK propaganda.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0347par0481	Congressmans, these talks are part of an agreement between the Group Vice Presidents, so don't.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0344par0482	...if we could tell each other what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, what you've done, if we could talk about ecology and the environment, but you didn't give it a chance. We had to give him that answer. Mr. Secretary of Labor, I'd like to tell you in one sentence. I listened really carefully, and we found something missing, and I don't know why you didn't talk. You didn't say anything about the people. One more thing, what you said about unionizing, yes, it's very important, but it's also important to defend the rights of workers who have been fired because they've become unionists. And I hope you don't ignore that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0349par0486	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0350par0487	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, when it was time to talk, we noticed that Selahattin Minsolmaz lost his mother. We pray for God's mercy, and to his group, and to his family, to our 40-year-old MP Selahatin Minsolmaz.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0349par0489	God rest his soul.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0350par0490	Now, today, of course, we're almost back to the parliamentary system. Four ministers are here at the same time for the first time in a very long time, so the time is too short. First of all, thank you for your approach to Mr. Vedat Scholar. Anyway, if you look at the general weather today in Parliament -- we don't change, but the ministers change -- it's actually the language the ministers form against Parliament itself from day to day, and it's been a pretty good experience for Parliament throughout the day. I'd like to thank all four ministers in that regard. I'll tell Mr. Vedat Bilgin. We're followers of 3600, minimum wage, EYT. And follow this, Mr. Secretary: there's been a major drug fraud at the Social Security Agency, there's been dismissals. However, a relative of a major drug abuse minister has been brought in as former advisor to the president of the Inspection Board of the same minister. The agency is very uncomfortable. We especially ask that you take another look at this matter and pay attention. We would like to say to Mr Fahrettin Koca, that the Drug Price Decision must be made 12 out of 4 liras, that the drugs should be tripled... (No one will defend it, nor any pharmaceutical MP here, nor the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals; we argue that the drug should be bought, available. But the Medication Price Charter was made during Kemal Unakitan, and in 2009 Ali Babacan was revised with Ali Babacan. A decree that has not been handed down from that day and does not meet the conditions of the day, we expect it to be corrected and you will do so with professional organisations. For the first time in twenty-five years, his lover is important. After Turkovac's approvals have been completed, we will use the same initiative on Turkovac, when we say that everyone who values our promise has followed the Ministry of Health's vaccine programme. There's no power as important as the local vaccine, above everything. We're waiting for a question-and-answer for health appointments, 40,000 appointments and appointment manuals. I've always said that, and I'll tell you from here. The best challenge with anti-occession is this: All doctors, intensive care providers, everyone says: "The infirms get sick, the uninoculated die, the non-inoculated get infected." • Divide this turquoise table in two; a painting of the non-reds; and a painting of the blue or green vaccines, and this will be the most efficient way of convincing, and the sum will be your turquoise table. Let him see the consequences of the inoculation, which is very important to us.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0351par0497	Go ahead and finish it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0350par0498	We give it to every minister, in terms of the time economy, I've distributed it to groups and ministers, but the best way to answer the question motions is by 30 percent, Mr. Burn. Mr. Vedat Bilgin, who hasn't answered any questions in his time, is also weak on his report card. So let's say that Mr. Fahrettin has 1.25 percent of the Big. So let's say that the corona virus is a great cause, so let's let's say that it's going to fix it from now on. Now, Mr. Murat Kurum, of course, he was probably the weakest of the day about a bit of style, but he was criticized, he had the right to criticize. Now, your ministers don't need a plane from you in the fight against the fire, the helicopter's available.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0351par0500	Here, finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0350par0501	I have been opposed to Dikey architecture all my life. When your president came to rule, there were four skyscrapers in Istanbul --rabia -- there are now 121 skyscrapers; 117 is your creation. At the point where you're coming in today and you're saying that those who didn't do their duties, I've looked back and looked back at seven losses in Düzce in 2020, four in Tripoli Arak, six in Rize, 82 in total, and 24 in total floods in 2009 Ayamama Creek, so where are the CHP's, opposition municipalities in 2020? You've got high levels all over you; you've got the creek, you've got the inconsistencies, but once you're on the stand, you're still in charge of the opposition. Now, of course, it rained notes from all over Turkey. Let me simply say that Izmir Metropolitan has been delivered in 6 districts by 960, as you've asked -- 2,518 ongoing...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0351par0504	Finish your words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0350par0505	In the tender phase of 2,500, the 5,978 dwellings don't transform into empty spaces, but through compromise, with full understanding, the 110 hectares of the City of Karabags are waiting at your desk, and you can't approve this urban transformation. In order to increase the 48-acre urban conversion field in the Karabags to 540 acres, you first turned it into a university site and sold it as a housing area without changing status, and according to 6306, you didn't nail it, and yet you turn around, you're still trying to put us in charge. On the other hand, I don't know what they're saying, Mr. President, look at the number -- 97 percent of the waste water in the Izmir Metropolitan facility -- is being purified by advanced biodegradation, Turkey 1st. Izmir Metropolitan Municipality purifies 23 liters of every 100 litres of water that is refined in Turkey.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0351par0508	Mr. Special, I'm opening for the last time, for the last time.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0350par0509	I will, sir. During the urban transformation, İzmirin waited four years for the Metropolitan projects, not approved, in the ministry before you, a special law came into North Ankara overnight. Now, this is Murat Kurum's next time. Mr. Kurum, there are no candidates, no ministers, even an old prime minister. If you're so curious, if you have the courage to run to Izmir next time, see how Izmir will measure your length. [[Noises from CHP rows]] My last word to Ms. Derya, we don't play rough politics. It's in all previous ministers' reports. And most of all, we avoid this Ministry, but looking at the documents that I've come across, our friends prove it, an incredible argument about the Istanbul Convention in the past, and today they're very counterproductive from it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0352par0515	That's enough now, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0350par0516	Ending, last, last President. Our friends say: "Derya Hanım's place is conflicted, this place is conflicted." I said: "Don't say so, I'm a witness to her." He says: "I have no testimony that I can't stand behind her." He says: "It's true, the minister wiped the Twitter account until morning, and it wasn't enough that he closed the Twitter account. (CHP cheers) He mis-shared his new account, and four days later, he closed another account. For God's sake, Mr. Secretary is the most consistent politician in the history of the Republic of Turkey, who has no inconsistencies in its promise and can deal with its past. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0353par0520	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0521	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to thank you, Precious President, for managing today's intensive agenda, which is discussed by the budget of our 4 Ministry, in public and in silence, and especially today, thanking our Minister of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change for his work and activities, and I hope his budget will be good. I wish Mr. Derya Burn, our Minister of Family and Social Services, well-funded, thank you. I also want to thank our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Vedat Bilgin. And I wish you all the best. Our Minister of Health, Fahrettin, wishes him success in his health struggle for our country, for our nation, for our people, and for the greater good of his budget. Yes, my dear President, there have been a lot of talks on a long, busy agenda, which I would like to share with you at the end of the day, Mr. Secretary, on behalf of our group, on behalf of the Cumhur Alliance. First of all, in today's talks, unfortunately, the AK PARTI Covid turned the pandemic into an opportunity, and the ambulance turned it into a show, bringing in patients from abroad from the country, and made a big show of fighting the pandemic. Yes, dear friends, we have endeavored to acquire the consent, love and conversation of our nation as if we had seen the epidemic 20 years ago, the renovation of state hospitals, the construction of our city hospitals, the development and development of our private health care institutions, the work we've done in the health industry and the pharmaceutical industry, health technology -- let's just say -- in our nation's consent, love, and conversation. For him, it's not a show, it's a service. To bring our citizens with our moon-star passport from anywhere in the world, to our motherland by plane, to our heavenly homeland, is a service to the nation. We, in our city hospitals, in the health industry, in health technologies, in the ambulance planes, wherever we are, will continue to bring all our citizens with their moon-star passports to our heavenly homeland and bring them back to health. At this point, I congratulate the Minister for his efforts and the success of the vaccine study.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0355par0525	Finish your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0527	Of course, on the other hand, according to the World Health Organization's data, Turkey is the most unsuccessful country in the fight against the epidemic. Precious friends, World Health Organization President Tedros Ghebreyesus says that in the fight against the epidemic in the world, the Republic of Turkey has become the fastest nation in the world, as well as the Republic of Turkey's state of Turkey, which has made its decisions the fastest in the fight against the epidemic, taking note of global aid in the fight against the epidemic. To our Minister of Health and to our President... [HPP's rankings]) (sounds))
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0355par0529	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0530	Praise be to God, we have a President we're proud of, and we're not afraid to congratulate you, we don't have a president like you, praise be to God. (CHP rows) Yes, I'd like to thank our President and Mr. Secretary. Yes, dear friends, Turkovac, at this point, God willing, it will heal all the oppressed geography, and it will be the basis for the construction of a new world order based on fair, right sharing. In this sense, all measures to protect the lives of prisoners because of Covid in prisons have been organized by the efforts of both our Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, and, of course, we are here to carry out an arrangement for their time off from the prisoners in a decision that our Parliament had just taken a week ago.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0355par0533	For the last time, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0534	Sure, there's a lot to talk about. Finally, especially the orator...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0355par0535	There's a lot to talk about, but there's no time.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0536	Mr. President, we're keeping track, so I need a minute and a half.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0356par0537	What do you mean, the president is wrong?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0355par0538	So you're keeping the clocks apart from us?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0539	Yes, sir. You have waged war against women. They have said again to the AK PARTY Group. Friends, who raise schooling rate for girls from 92 per cent to 97 per cent, raise our women's reading rate from 79.9 per cent to 96 per cent, raise participation in the labour force from 25 per cent to 40 per cent, and continue to fight women with strong initiative support, and continue to fight women with violence. The zero tolerance that demonstrates the fight against the principle of...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0357par0542	Mr. Özkan, let me open it one last time, please finish it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0358par0543	Aren't the women you're with ashamed?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0544	I'm finishing, sir. ...providing positive discrimination through constitutional and legal reforms, serving more than 160,000 of our women at the prevention and monitoring centers in our 81 counties...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0359par0547	We don't have a woman.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0548	...Fighting Violence Against Women IV. It is our group that has prepared the National Action Plan, which has increased the grant of women's strengthening program to $943m, and is again the Cumhur Alliance. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly, thanking all political party groups and lawmakers who contribute to the work today.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0359par0551	Mr. President, let our women and our women take it back.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0354par0552	Man, woman, woman, all right. The woman is a woman, not a woman.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0359par0553	We do not accept the words of our women and our women.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0360par0554	It's not a bad thing to say our woman -- you say our man -- it's not a bad thing. So what?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0359par0555	We don't say, we don't say.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0360par0556	Congressmans, we're now going to question-answer. Mr. Good, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0361par0558	Since violence against women has increased so much, why is violence research data not updated? Will there be a field search by allocation of the necessary budget for the types and causes of violence against women? From January 1st to October 30, 2021, 1.847 workers were killed by the IIG Assembly. The ministry conducted only 500 audits in 2021. What's the reason for so few inspections when the work killings have increased so much? Why isn't the disabled employment quota imposed under the law? What are the number of disabled women employed in public and private sectors? Are the procedures for disabled employment fully supervised or what is being done? Will you stop exports with the legality of Article 35 of the KHK, with no concrete criminal element, with unknown claims of how it was obtained? How many women have been exported with this substance?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0362par0561	Mr. Pilot...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0363par0562	Mr. Health Minister, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your selfless service during the epidemic and for all our health workers. Mr. Labour and Social Security Minister, we support and await your news as to his work on providing 3600 additional indicators to our police, teachers, health staff, and religious officials. Does your Ministry have a working plan to avoid tax evasion from minimum wage? Mr. Family and Social Services Minister, is there any study of our non-vehicular heroes? Will you have a study of the request for a staff of fellow students who have been assigned to you? Mr. Environment, Minister of Urbanism and Climate Change demands that air, coastal and sea pollution be prevented in Mersin, my constituency, and that our Ministry's funding for Mersin be increased, and I wish our ministry's budgets to be better.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0364par0566	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0365par0567	Thank you, Mr. President. Is there a study to restore the rights of those who are old in retirement, whose rights have been revoked? Is it considered to be a permanent staff of workers for workers who are stuck in a 70 per cent service contract in the public subcontractor? Is it considered to have temporary workers in municipal and private administration to be given a ten-month working term, at least, with the supervisor of a six-month worker? The day the apprentices and interns start work, will old age insurance be allowed to begin? Is there going to be an attitude adjustment for disabled people, a pensioner's policy? Will restrictions be lifted on the rights of subcontractors? Is the person who does the real job going to be given the full cast? Do you have an appointment program for thousands of health workers waiting for a medical appointment? Will a contractor be given a staff in health? Is the working quota of disabled persons expected to increase from 3 per cent to 6 per cent? What number is this, you said, that's going to be over 3,000 for the disabled appointment? Will those who work as permanent workers in national education and who are unemployed for two months be put on permanent staff?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0364par0569	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0366par0570	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish for the well-being of the current Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change, the Ministry of Family and Social Services, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. I want to thank our ministers and our Ministry employees for their successful service to our country and our nation. By the powerful leadership of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, let the people live so that the state can live. There is only one purpose for our health investments and health care, which is to ensure that our beloved nation has access to quality and comfortable health services for free. In particular, Turkey, the world example of its rapid transformation in health, says it is the most prepared and successful country for the global pandemic, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0367par0573	Mr. Guler...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0368par0574	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite the pandemic process in the world, which has been the country's 100-fluent housing administration, the construction sector and our economy have been a major success in building 1,100,000 homes for 5 million citizens over the past years. A total of 44,728 homes and village houses, 485 workplaces, 25 schools, 18 mosques, 2 dorms, 2 hostels, and 3.984 stables were built, and all of our citizens' homes were delivered to their citizens after the floods in Elazig, Malatya and Izmir, Kastamonun, Sinop, Bartin and Rize. I'd like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, our Head of Public Housing Administration, our vice presidents, our apartment heads, and our experts on behalf of our House. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0369par0578	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0370par0579	Thank you, Mr. President. On January 24, 2020, after an earthquake in the centre of Dikce, Elazıg and Malatya were soon wounded in Elazig and Malatya. The dwelling provided all kinds of humanitarian assistance and support, especially. Our citizens, who were damaged in the Malatya and Elazig earthquake, were given their dwellings. In some of our counties, homes continue to be delivered, even though the victims of earthquakes have suffered a small number of problems due to their rights-owning problems. On the night of January 24th, two hours after the earthquake, I'd like to thank our Home Secretary, our Minister of Environment, our Minister of Health, our President of the United States, our President of the AFAD, the President who called immediately after the earthquake and on behalf of my fellow countrymen and Malatians who led us to the area.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0371par0582	Mr. Axeman...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0372par0583	Thank you, Mr. President. He is the president of the AKP who translated the word "efficiency" in Turkish politics. I'd like to give an example to those who are on his path, as he said in his social media account on June 27, 2016, when he was not the Minister, what he said: "Hisht, Kilicdaroglu, your men are handing out potatoes; what business?" he said, "What business?" Mr. President called our president. In addition, at the meeting of the Minister's Commission, a woman called our MP Mr. Aysu Bankoglu Mr. Aysu Bankoglu. Besides, I'm not talking about a drug addict, I'm talking about a drug dealer. This person was caught selling drugs in an operation on March 25th, which meant he was on duty for seven months and seven days until October 27th, when I made my speech. Those who keep this person in office for seven months and seven days will one day answer to justice, and I will not let it go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0373par0587	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0374par0588	Thank you, Mr. President. We understand the 73rd anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, one of the building blocks of human history, which is the source of many international contracts, including the establishment of basic human rights. Turkey, which is part of the first countries to sign the declaration and is a party to basic UN contracts in the field of human rights, is committed to co-operation with international organisations and mechanisms in this area. With the reforms we've done in the past 19 years, our country has achieved significant results in the introduction of fundamental rights and freedoms to all communities. In the coming period, we will continue our efforts, our steps, and our reforms with determination. On this occasion, I salute the Day of Human Rights of our citizens and the nations of the world, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0375par0593	Mr. Paper...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0376par0594	My question to the Minister of Health: When will the Develi State Hospital and the Sariz State Hospital, which is under construction, return to the story of the snake in Kayseri? Do you have any work to compensate for the lack of specialist doctors in the counties, including Tomarza, Yehitan and Pınarbaşı? To the Minister of Environment... the peace of zoning in 2018 was a victim. Complaints are pouring from all over our country, especially in Kayseri and districts. Is there a study on the registration of these citizens who have obtained a building registration document and the registration of their land structures used for livestock? To the Minister of Labor... some of the workers who took office at KHK 696 and Ercias University were not taken into the Mass Business Contracts Framework Protocol, is there a study for the removal of the victims of these workers? Do you and TYP plan to put personnel working as security guards in schools on permanent staff?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0377par0598	Dear Ali Sugar... Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0378par0600	Mr. Labour and Social Security Minister Bilgin, do you intend to cancel the taxes of the minimum-payers? Do you have any work on solving the IIT problem? How much will you do with the salary improvement, Mr. Survivor said it's going to be 35%, is that correct? Mr. Minister of Health, will there be sufficient improvement to the rights of physicians and health workers? Do you have any work to help freelance physicians get special green passports after ten years of work? Several medical personnel are waiting to be appointed. Dialysis technicians, odometer technicians, radiology technicians, EMTs, anesthesiologists, health management graduates, how much did you put aside for the purchase of? Does your government have any work to speed up the renovation of university hospitals, particularly İstanbul University Medical School and Gererpaşa's place?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0377par0602	Mr. Secretary, we're moving on to the answer section. Mr. Institution, come in. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to ask the Deputy Chairman of the HDP Group: What gives you the right to speak on behalf of all Kurds, on behalf of our Kurdish brothers? I wonder once.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0379par0607	From the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0380par0608	The votes we get, the will we get. You're talking about taking kids up the mountain, we call our kids schools, we call them schools, we call them colleges. You call it burning, you say burning, we do.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0381par0611	Where did you hear about the burning? They don't know what it's like to burn and wash. They don't know what it's like to please people. You say democracy, democracy. You can't bear criticism. You're talking about trustee municipalities, I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0382par0613	Tell me about the corruption of my trustee! You've always spent your life hoping, and then you'll have the same hope.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0381par0615	Oh, come on! Our nation will let your hopes go to waste again. This nation won't give you authority and have a budget to support the terrorist organization, and it won't allow it. You still haven't learned that. Mr. Special, we don't have any files on urban transformation in Izmir, or any other province in Turkey. Let me be clear: I said that we would give both the Metropolitan Municipality and the Flag City City all the support necessary for our citizens, for our nation.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0383par0618	The nephew is noble, and the nephew is noble... and the nephew of the noble... answer him, and the nephew of the noble, and answer him. Now, now, under the roof of the High Assembly, we will help whoever comes to us about urban transformation, we will help no one. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, to serve the nation, I say as a minister who went 81, visited more than 350, we go to Hakkari, we go to Şırnak...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0384par0622	You can't leave. Get out of the way from Haqkari... We'll go to İzmir and fight for our nation and now...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0385par0624	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, but... Mr. Special, we've been giving you twenty elections, twenty years under the leadership of our President, one more twenty years, with the will of God, we'll continue with the support of our nation. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices, applause; noise from CHP and HDP rows]] Thank you. Yes, Mr. Scholar...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0386par0629	On June 7th, you were measured, June 7th! You're playing overtime, it's over on June 7th!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0387par0630	You can't tell anyone to sit down. Who are you talking about? Sit down. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0388par0632	None of your business! You sit there yourself, you dirty man!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0389par0633	Minister, don't talk to him. He's not a man to talk to.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0390par0634	If you'll excuse me... excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0391par0635	The President, he's acting, he's acting!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0392par0636	The back is moving too, but look, look at the back, that's where it started.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0390par0637	Why don't you take your seats?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0393par0638	Know your place! Answer the allegations concerning the faithful nobleman, the insolent one!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0394par0639	Sit down... here's the move, here's the move. Who are you?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0390par0640	Let him finish, Mr. Secretary, we're in question-answer process.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0395par0641	Mr. President, he's insulting our Minister in the back, so we're just gonna let him!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0396par0642	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0390par0643	We're in the question-answer process, Mr. Oluç, and I'll complete the response process.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0397par0644	Yeah, how does he move from there?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0398par0645	You move, it starts there, they start in the back.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0397par0646	I didn't see it. I see it here.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0399par0647	Guys, look, the clock's ticking.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0400par0648	Answer the claims of the faithful nobleman, and answer. Don't give me no hand gestures, behave yourself! Behave yourself!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0399par0649	Friends, if you'll excuse me, it's the other Minister's turn. Mr. Scholar, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0401par0651	Hold your hands, don't threaten us from there!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0402par0652	First, take care of your group in the back!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0399par0653	Would you guys excuse me, please?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0403par0654	Put your hand down! [[Noises from HDP rows]] You put it down! You pick him up, I'll take him down!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0404par0657	Put your hand down, you rascal!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0405par0658	Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, everyone take your seats.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0403par0659	Know your fucking place! You dirty bastard! Shameless man! Get out of here! A servant of the noble!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0406par0661	Mr. President, they're insulting you in the back.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0407par0662	Who are you to sit with your hand? You say, behave, behave! Who are you? Who are you!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0408par0664	Mr. Secretary, please take your seats... friends, please take your seats.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0409par0665	It's Little Noble.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0410par0666	Mr. President, they're insulting you from behind.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0411par0667	Answer the allegations concerning the faithful Noble Messenger.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0412par0668	This can't be happening!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0413par0669	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0414par0670	Mr. Missing, Mr. Mulecioglu, everyone take your seats. Mr. Chepni...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0415par0671	Mr. Beştaş, your friends are making gestures.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0416par0672	You take care of your minister first.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0415par0673	They do it the same way, you don't see it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0417par0674	That's where it started.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0416par0675	He can't tell me to sit down. He can't tell me to sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0418par0676	He's gonna decide if we're gonna sit down and get up! He's gonna decide!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0416par0677	He can't call me that! Sit down. He can't say that.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0419par0678	Guys, why don't you sit down? Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0420par0679	They're insulting me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0421par0680	An appointed minister, an appointed minister!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0422par0681	You're a signature, a signature.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0423par0682	Come on, man!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0424par0683	They're insulting the Minister, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0425par0684	Friends, please... sit down, Mr. Özkan. Yeah, Deputy Group Presidents, you're gonna set an example... Mr. Oluç, please take your seat. Mr. Scholar, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0426par0686	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0427par0687	A signature, a signature...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0428par0688	Are you a gangster or a minister or a minister? Look at the moves!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0429par0689	You're a teenager!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0430par0690	Let's go on, let's go on, let's calm down...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0431par0692	Guys, please slow down...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0432par0693	There's an important question in the questions I've been asked, all of which are important, but I have a few questions that I can answer in order of importance that I need to answer in this short period of time, so if you'll excuse me, first of all, there was a question about income distribution. The first of Turkey's revenue distribution research was done in 1968, and we lost Tuncer Bulutay, which Tuncer Ersel Hodjas did two days ago, and I ask God's mercy. Of course, by the way, I would like to ask Huseyin Nihal Horseless Bey, who wrote one of the most important epic novels of Turkish literature, a blessing from his death. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] These studies have been repeated, and there's one thing that stands out in these studies, the lowest income group...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0433par0697	Tell me about YIT.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0432par0698	...a percentage of a 20-percent income group ranges from 4.5/6 to 6, and the highest income group ranges from 48 to 57, so these numbers vary in all research, but these intervals don't change much. So there's a pattern in Turkey, or there's something about the research technique, or there's a problem with the structure not changing. And here's another question, a question about drug fraud. I conducted the investigations into drug corruption, or rather the dismissal. I took out the men I thought were involved in, thought they were involved, or didn't fight effectively. Investigations are ongoing on some of them, on the fact that we're suspects. I saw some problems with the investigators, so I changed them. The friend we replaced is a lawyer, who's already been made by the General Prosecutor's Office, where I took him to the Board of Reviews. So we're in the middle of something that's going to deepen, and it's going to go where it's going to go. Everyone knows I won't tolerate corruption, and it's part of my job at the Ministry of Labor. There's a saying our President said when he put me on this mission: If you save $1 million in this country, social security...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0434par0701	Aren't you going to say anything about the YIT people, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0435par0702	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0432par0703	For him, it's a mission for me, so don't let anyone doubt that we'll go all the way.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0436par0704	From 4/C to 4/B, under contract, temporary workers, subcontractors in the public, EYT. You didn't say anything about them, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0432par0705	It's the tax issue from minimum wage... it's the alternative in our minimum wage studies, so there are a few alternatives, like the removal of taxes, the removal of income tax, and so on, you can imagine that we're on top of them. So, if I have time, I can answer the other questions here.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0437par0706	EXPLAIN YIT.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0436par0707	EYT...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0432par0708	We have to work on these pensioners, their pensions, our work on fixing them. We run this study in a very comprehensive way.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0436par0709	Retirement law, EYT...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0432par0710	I'd like to point out that I'm going to share this with the public as long as I'm away from the study.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0438par0711	EYT, the principle law...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0439par0712	Don't read Gazel, listen!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0432par0713	And two of our friends asked, "What did you do to the pressure on the unions? I've investigated them, I've given them large fines in these investigations, and I've finally told our unions that I'll press charges against them in front of employers who don't know our law...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0440par0715	Do you have an EYT arrangement, Mr. Secretary? No E.Y.T.?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0439par0716	Don't read Gazel, listen!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0441par0717	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0442par0718	Therefore, let no one hesitate in this matter. Another issue, our friend asked, a very important question, and I would like to address our fellow workers who work at the university in Kayseri. The public does not accept a collective contract framework as an employer; I answered it in writing, and in the obligation to accept it, no one can deny the rights that our workers have earned.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0443par0720	We asked about YIT.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0442par0721	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0443par0723	EYT...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0444par0724	Millions are waiting, give me a statement about EYT.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0445par0725	Mr. Derya Burn, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0446par0726	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, your questions...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0445par0728	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0447par0729	Give me a statement about YIT.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0446par0730	May I have my say?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0445par0731	Mr. Gürer, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0448par0732	First lesson in economics... if you're going to give a lecture on economics, make a statement about YIT.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0445par0733	Do you have to say what you want, Mr. Ministers, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0449par0734	No, Mr. President, the citizen is waiting.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0450par0735	Answer the questions, the questions.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0445par0736	Mr. Burn, please come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0451par0737	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we'll surely send long, written answers to some of the questions. But I'd like to make a few things clear here. If I'd known Mr. Free Special loved my old social media account so much, I wouldn't have turned it off. I'm sorry, 'cause we closed the debates and manipulations at the time. I didn't open the account later, and we have a complaint about that account. Therefore, those who know me know very well that the tone in that second account does not belong to me, one. Secondly, in that account, I didn't change anything I had written in the previous account, and I didn't delete it. From the second half of the 1990s, I am a person who shares his views, political views, legal views, even other areas of television, radio, printed places. So, starting from 1997-98, my opinion and opinion in many places, it doesn't just have to be social media, and those investigations I've written on national channels, July 15th, 17-25 December, before every period, I've spoken in front of all the national channels, in front of the nation. So, I've already made it clear to the public that what I wrote on that social media account, and so on, in a way that everyone will hear. You won't find anything here either, I'll tell you that. Therefore, it would hurt you to travel from those accounts, from here and from here. I'm a person who believes in the institutional existence of politics, no matter how opposed we are. I'm a man who believes in the necessity and value of politics in Turkey. I'm the kind of person who believes that mutual negotiations can improve political parties more than the intermediary, and should at least improve them. So let's not talk about the accounts here, it would be really unfair under this roof. Mr. Hasan, in a manner under the roof of Congress, is a social media account that I've closed...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0452par0741	Mr. Burn, we've finished the answer part...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0451par0742	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0452par0743	Let's give you a minute.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0451par0744	That's good, too. I'm not even going to compare them, I'm not even answering him. Now, there are a few things that Ms. Merkel said: why they don't visit their mothers in Diyarbakir. Bring the children of the mothers of Diyarbakir because in the past, your friends and I have put our backs to Kandil.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0453par0747	You're the government, go get it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0451par0748	And surely your word shall pass to the place where you have put your backs, and bring them, that mothers may spread you red carpets, and let them not enter, but let them lay down red carpets. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's skip that. You're saying that a 15-year-old girl who approves of the marriage of 15-year-olds... has made this ruling a legal arrangement that allows them to accept sexual abuse and punish their 15-year-olds, but we expect you to question the will to bring children under 15 to a terrorist organization. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) So this is the last time that the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0454par0753	Answer the questions, the questions.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0455par0754	You talk about your area of responsibility, your area of responsibility.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0456par0755	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, but one more minute. Please complete.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0457par0757	A friend of ours says that I'm responsible for them, yes, for all the citizens of this country, all the daughters and women of this country, and I'm talking about it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0458par0758	Talk about violence against women, rapes; we haven't heard two words.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0457par0759	Miss Filiz mentioned what I said about her. That's exactly why I said it, because Fiz Kerestecioğlu and I are colleagues at the same time. We may be in different places today from civil society work, but we're people from civil society work. So, after two days of not being criticized in the middle of all those people who were given a speech a week ago, if he needs to review it again at the commission meeting a week later, after all the thesis on social media, I'll leave it up to him to interpret it, as well. I'm not gonna go any further because I really want to talk about polemics...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0459par0761	What's the budget got to do with it?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0460par0762	Yes, Mr. Secretary, let's turn on the microphone, but I'll make a promise to Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0457par0763	I'm just gonna say thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0461par0764	Tell me about the budget.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0457par0765	I'll send you the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0462par0767	Other questions are unimportant, your tweets are more important.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0463par0768	Yes, Mr. Fahrettin Husband. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0464par0770	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to answer the questions we've asked about our Ministry of Health as long as we can. Medical personnel, everyone's waiting for the appointment. As you know, 40,000 new recruits have been assigned. 20,000 contract health personnel have been sent to the OSD, and the manual will be published in the coming days. According to the KPSS score, we're going to shop for central deployment and no interviews. Other than that, in March, we'll also have 20,000 staff, 10,000 permanent workers, 10,000 medical staff. Did he have Omicron variants? Yeah, we got it. Don't worry, we've got a total of six cases so far. One is in Istanbul, five is in İzmir. Six cases didn't need hospitals. I'd like to point out that there are patients with extremely faint symptoms, foot-to-wall, no problems. Let not our citizen of Omicron variant be anxious in that sense. We particularly think that the current information about this variant is more contagious, but its effect may be lower with preliminary information. What needs to be done here is we want our citizen to continue to take precautions, especially as it has been until today. Covid-19 data and deaths. It's always on the agenda. You know, we're reporting cases that are positive in accordance with PCR definitions, and I've told you before. This is the third time I've said anything about passing away today. I told you six months ago after the Science Board, and I told you on the commission, and I'll tell you today. We're estimated to have two or three times as many deaths as we do around the world with indirect casualties. What about public-private expenses? What about the pocket charges? The public's weight is increasing in the health sector. The public share, 78 per cent in 2019, rose to 79.2 per cent in 2020, while the private sector's share fell from 22 per cent to 20.8 per cent. In 2002 it was 19.8 per cent, while in 2019 it was 16.7 per cent, and in 2020, it was 16 per cent. So the cost of health care has dropped from the pocket, and in the healthcare sector, the public's weight has increased, as the private sector has been known, and it has not increased.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0465par0775	He'll talk till morning?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0464par0776	The Kit import situation... our deputy is particularly skilled at putting meaning into it. When the number of bidders is less than two, they are given to the only company, he says. Let me show you here, when? September 21st. We want to increase the number of offers, and when we increased the number of offers, the number of bidders increased to 15 companies. With the exit to 15 companies, 750 laps were made, the open tender, 750 laps, and the kit, which was at $2.5, went down to $9.6. So it went from $700 million to $190 million. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I want our Congressman to see 84 million. What is their only company here?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0466par0778	Mr. Secretary, finish up, I'm opening for the last time.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0464par0779	The end. Isparta... it's called:
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0467par0781	Mr. Secretary, can you tell me who you're answering to?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0464par0782	It is said that the foundation was laid in March 2014. With who? The company received the tender and was founded on March 2014. That's what I'm saying. It's called a tender after the foundation was laid, that's the bet. So, when did this tender start? Nine companies participated in the tender for preliminary competency in July 2011. We're talking about a tender that started three years ago.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0783	Mr. Secretary, while the bidding process continues, don't throw the foundation, look, don't deceive.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0464par0784	Four companies bid in July 2012.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0785	While the bidding process continues, you're laying the groundwork.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0469par0786	Mr. Hawk, excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0787	The bidding process continues, no pun intended.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0470par0788	Please, Congressman...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0789	The bidding process continues, the tender commission hasn't decided, and you're laying the groundwork.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0471par0790	Mr. Hawk, there's no such procedure. Sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0470par0791	Congressman...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0792	No pun intended.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0471par0793	Mr. Hawk, sit down, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0794	There's paperwork, there's paperwork.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0471par0795	Mr. Hawk, would you sit down?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0796	No pun intended. The bidding process continues.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0471par0797	Mr. Hawk, would you sit down?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0798	The commission hasn't decided yet, and then it's decided.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0471par0799	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0472par0800	Congressman, health doesn't come to noise, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0468par0801	Mr. Secretary, look, I am ashamed to say that Mr. Minister is lying. But you are lying.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0472par0802	In July 2012, four companies fell to 2 companies in February 2013. Since there are fewer than three companies in September 2013, the YPK is requested. Here is the document of the YPK. What did he say in September 2013? The start of the tender process... it says, "Look, the process of the bidding is not the tender." It says, "The process of the tender is the end of the tender process by the Ministry of Health." When? So, December 30, 2013, the firm shows up, and the foundation's being laid in March 2014? And nine months after the tender for Isparta City Hospital, he attends a health cooperation meeting in London. What does that have to do with anything? Our words must be worth something under this sacred roof. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0473par0805	Thank you. Yes, the question-answer process is complete.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0474par0807	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0475par0808	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0476par0809	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0477par0810	Everyone, take your seats. What happened? Sit down.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0478par0811	Mr. President, look, I have the firm's offer, the firm's offer. Look, the firm has an offer on July 18th.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0477par0812	Mr. Hawk, there's no language like that. Sit down. You made a claim, and the Minister responded.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0479par0813	You got ten minutes of questions, and he answered for half an hour.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0478par0814	Mr. President, there's paperwork here.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0477par0815	Guys, take your seats.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0480par0816	No.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0477par0817	No. What does that mean?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0480par0818	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, by accusing me of being close to any company, I'd like to speak of bullying.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0477par0819	He never said that. Sit down, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0480par0820	He did, Mr. President. I wonder which company the Congressman used. Did you use it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0481par0821	Mr. President, let's see the reports tomorrow.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0477par0822	Mr. Oluç, please, I promise you your position. Mr. Oluç, come in.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0482par0824	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, now that the Minister has filed charges, I'd like to answer them. Look, I asked you, you didn't answer my questions, you attacked me because you couldn't. What is your relationship with organized businesses, such as not falling into his property, and closing his property cheaply, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0483par0827	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0484par0828	Would you excuse me, fellas?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0482par0829	What is your relationship with the noblemen, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0483par0831	It's slander!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0485par0832	Mr. President, that's not the way to do it!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0486par0833	Guys, just give me a minute!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0487par0834	I asked you these questions, and you couldn't answer them.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0486par0835	Mr. Oluç, look, you're speaking in a manner that will cause a new bullying, please don't do this.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0487par0836	Of course. Okay, I'm not doing it. I asked. I said, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0486par0839	Here you go.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0487par0840	Now, look, you're saying: "Where do you get the right to speak for all Kurds?" I didn't say anything about talking for all Kurds. I speak for our constituents, the people who chose us, the people who voted for us, on their behalf, their families, because we defend their rights. Millions of people support us for defending their rights. We're their voices and our words here, not talking to ourselves. We didn't get anywhere by appointment like you, we came here by the people's votes, by their will, and we defend their rights.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0488par0842	You're coming with the Kandil appointment.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0487par0843	Look, you said: "The People's Democratic Party has not burned down or destroyed anything, but it has attacked the People's Democratic Party and burned down its district organizations, its people, its killings, its jails, its detentions...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0845	Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0487par0846	Sir, my last sentence is incomplete.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0848	Dear Oluç, look, if I may...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0490par0849	Mr. President, what does this have to do with the agenda?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0491par0850	That's not the way to do it!
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0851	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0852	But that's not gonna happen. The Minister will tell you everything, and I won't be able to answer that, will I?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0493par0854	Mr. President, what does this have to do with the agenda?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0855	Guys, excuse me, please.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0856	What does it mean to destroy it, Mr. President? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0857	Mr. Oluç, look, let me just say, there's no such thing as answering again after you've done your evaluation, and we haven't discussed it.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0858	But he said to destroy it, what does that mean?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0859	You wanted to talk about bullying, you used it for two minutes instead of using it here, but that's all there is to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0861	No, that wouldn't happen. I want it on the record, it's a felony charge.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0862	Mr. Oluç, look, let's sit down for hours, everyone's on the record; there's no such thing.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0863	It's a felony charge, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0864	No.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0865	Is that all right, Mr. President? How come you don't write it down? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0494par0866	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has clearly teased me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0867	Guys, this isn't the way.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0868	You're being unfair; you're standing next to the Minister, you need to be on the side of the House.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0869	Not at all, I'm not on anyone's side.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0870	You need to be on the side of the coven, yes.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0489par0871	You know the basics and procedures better than anyone, please don't.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0492par0872	No, that wouldn't happen.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0495par0873	Mr. President...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0496par0874	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0497par0875	Now, I'm going to have the public administrations, which are in the fifth round in a row, go into their budgets and their final accounts separately, and I'm going to put them to your votes.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0495par0877	Mr. President, you can't vote.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0496par0878	Mr. President, Madam Secretary Derya picked on me, obviously picked on me.
tbmm-2021-12-11sit04spe0497par0879	I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Health will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 116,037,461.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Health Ministry's central management budget was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Department of Health's central management account for 2020 will be transferred to its final accounts: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total allowance 52,235,652,156,74 Budget Expenses 65.196.375.196.66 Compensation Expenses 13.215.458.391.47 Canceled Grant 251,850,549,16 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 16.943.671.85 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2020, parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Health were adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. ENGLISH HUDIT AND THESE ACTIONS ARE GENIOR 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 191,233,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 516.322,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate will be transferred into the chapters of its final account in 2020: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 954,556,864,47 Budget Expenses 331,266,806,05 Cancelled Grant 623,290,058,42 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 14.288.878.68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 339.453.000.00 Collection 422,644,486,64 Ret and Returns 443,737,76 Net Collection 422,200,748,88 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate have been adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. ENGLISH MEDICINE AND TIBI TERRIBLE BUILDING 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 237.218,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 235,218,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred into the chapters of 2020: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices Centre Management Final Account for 2020 Total Payment 179.122,000.00 Budget Expenses 166,255,110,44 Canceled Fund 12.866.889.56 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 166,345,000.00 Collection 156,331,491,39 Ret and Returns 1.479.969.39 Net Collection 154.851.522.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account for 2020 of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Health Institutes shall be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2022 General TOPLAM 218.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 218.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Health Institutes presidency was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the President of the Turkish Health Institutes' final account for central management in 2020 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total allowance 146,424,398.00 Budget Expenses 99.036.691.87 Canceled Fund 47,387,706,13 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 6.291.669.00 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 79.578,000.00 Collection 120,932,564,01 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Turkish Health Institutes presidency were adopted in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. THE CENTER, THE CITY AND THE DIFFERENCE OF THE DIFFERENCE 1) Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 4,887.832,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Environment, Urbanism and Climate Change was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of Meteorology will be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 678.380.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2022 was adopted by the General Directorate of Meteorology. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Directorate of Meteorology, in 2020, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The General Directorate of Meteorology 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 510.346,000.00 Budget Expenses 501,682.042.32 Canceled Fund 8.663,957,68 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the General Directorate of Meteorology. I submit to your votes that the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate will be transferred to the central management budget in 2022, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. TAPU AND KADISTRO GENIORITY 1) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate 2022 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 1,662.712,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2022 was adopted by the Bureau and the Kadastro General Directorate. In 2020, I submit to your votes that the central management account of the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate shall be transferred into the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2020 Total allowance is 1,643,843,149,57 Budget Expenses 1,389.370.934.15 Canceled allowance 93,370,755,53 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 161,101,459,89 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departures of the central management account of 2020 were adopted by the National Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro. I submit to your votes that the President of Climate Change will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022, those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) Chairman of Climate Change 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 60,716,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the President of Climate Change was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the State Department of Environment and Urbanism's final account of central management in 2020 will be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 6.229,299,219,06 Budget Expenses 5,793,053,741,69 Canceled Grant 218,757,029,39 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 217,488,447,98 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2020. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Family and Social Services will be transferred to the central management budget for 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. FAMILY AND SOCIAL RELATIONSHIP 1) Ministry of Family and Social Services 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 66.131.543.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Services was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Labor and Social Security shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: Those who don't... Sustained. WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION 1) Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2022 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 83,851,907,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The labour and social security ministry's central management budget was adopted in 2022. I submit to your votes that the institution of vocational competence will be transferred to the central management budget of 2022: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 1) The National Management Budget of 2022 General TOPLAM 43.075,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 154.204,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget for 2022 was adopted by the institution of vocational competence. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2020 of the institution of vocational competence will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Occupational Qualification Institution 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 41,844,000.00 Budget Expenses 36,961,820,41 Canceled Fund 4,882.179.59 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 70,896,000.00 Collection 85,298,710,21 Ret and Returns 1,018,355.00 Net Collection 84,280,355,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of 2020 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services shall be transferred to the final accounts of central management in 2020: Those who don't... Sustained. FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL INFORMATION 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2020 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 150,688,012.926,36 Budget Expenses 150.245.566.272.28 Fund Expenses 143,754,87 Canceled Fund 437,828,621,59 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 127,578,062,41 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services were adopted in 2020. So the budgets and certain accounts of public administrations in the fifth round have been accepted, and I wish them well. Congressmans, the fifth round of talks is complete. The Commission of Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology has a thesis, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose, of course, that the new provisions of Law Proposal 287 shall be returned to the Commission of Information and Technology under Article 88 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. President of Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission It has been presented to your knowledge. In this way, Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Law Proposal 287 have been withdrawn to the Commission. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Sunday (December 12th 2021) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
