tbmm-2021-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Dear lawmakers, I am opening the First Unification of the Fifth Legislative Year of the 27th Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've got enough for a meeting, so I'm going on the agenda. We have gathered for the first unification of the 27th Year of the Fifth Legislature, the precious Presidents of our political parties, our valued MPs, diplomatic representatives, our beloved nation. I wish that in this year of legislation, decisions, laws to be passed, works to be carried out, our nation and our state, all the friends and brothers that favor Turkey, and the states and the whole world. I remember with mercy and gratitude all the sons of our country who served this nation today from the First Assembly, under this lofty roof, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and his fellow travelers, and Mehmet Akif Ersoy of the First Assembly. The Supreme Assembly, which we have come to understand the 101st anniversary, will host the work that paves the way for our beloved nation to walk in strong steps to the future, as it did during the last legislature. On the one hand, we're struggling to survive the global Covid epidemic with minimal loss of life, while on the other hand, we're moving on to a more stable pace. Once again, I would like to welcome our health workers, who have spent the night and day in the pandemic process, forgetting their home, their family. In the harshest period of the epidemic, we are pleased that our students who have been deprived of their schools have ended their longing for school and that their parents' eternal patience has returned to joy. Dear lawmakers, the process we're in is similar to the conditions of the First Assembly; the world is being reshaped, new borders are being drawn, exploitation relations are re-recognised. No doubt the shape and method of the external attacks has changed, but the content of the colonial ambitions has not changed. Every member of parliament under this roof is no doubt aware of this fact. A hundred years ago, the situation is not fit to demand full independence. The army against those who say, "The Mediterranean is your first goal. The will, which makes the order a duty of a country, is right, to claim the claim of my nation who worships Hakk, and to raise a strong and young state out of the wreckage of the First Jahan Harzip. I hope this strong will will also affect the working content of our House. Our responsibility to guide the fate of our country together is to reflect on the dialogue we have with each other. No one can compete under this roof to love our beautiful and holy country more. Being here is the epiphany of our love for our country. It is important to the spirituality of our Parliament that our approaches to conflict have a case that represents the people's saintly existence. Surely we don't have to compromise everything. However, when compromise is possible, it is not necessary to sacrifice the solution to everyday politics. During the previous legislature, we worked day and night to establish important laws that touched the lives of our nation. And I know that during this legislature, we will work hard to make the laws and works that will improve the conditions of our country and even the world. My dear friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the most heroic Assembly in the world during its historic march; it is the Veteran Assembly, the sacrificing and idealist Assembly. He's an idealist because every time an enemy attacks, he stops all the breakups and gets back together, forgets all the disagreements and gets back together. The last time we saw this was July 15th, a traitorous coup attempt. In the courageous and decisive leadership of our President, we have destroyed the plans of traitors, just as we destroyed their armies in the past. The fact that those who seek the aid of the coups on our country must accept immediately is that our democratic maturity and the point of our democracy have come to a high level and the period of coups is now completely closed for our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Turkey's power does not come only from its economic ability and military resources. Over a hundred and seventy years of elections, the history of the parliament for a hundred and forty-four years and 75 years of multi-party political life make Turkey a different and pioneer in terms of tradition. So we have to appreciate our democracy well, take what our democracy has given us. You are aware that today, when the world returns to chaos, turmoil, and war spheres, the peace and peace of our country disturbs governments that feed on chaos. The biggest answer to them is the preservation of this peace and security environment. In the face of every attack, the Holy Council has nothing to do with its people, with its people, with its people. This idealism cannot be found in any other assembly of the world. It is our duty to work in harmony with the hero, veteran, selfless and idealist character of our great House. Each of them is aware of the importance of accepting hearts, being good, being modest, enduring knowledge, and respecting different views. New technologies have allowed everyone to live behind glass walls. Of course, we are members of political parties that are an important part of our identity, but we are also representatives of the sacred institutional identity of this great Assembly. It is imperative that we take great care to act within the boundaries of democratic competition, human kindness, and national integrity. Dear lawmakers, this is a time when war changes shape and enemies disguise as friends, and therefore it is more difficult and important to maintain peace and peace than ever before. We represent, establish, and demand peace before and always before the international community. We warn those who make dirty calculations on our country, who have eyes in our land or in a drop of water of blue country, if not done, we convince them, and if they don't, we get rid of them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It is clear that the functions of international organisations are being questioned and that the power they have is being used in favour of certain countries. Mr. President has been making this matter known and on the agenda. In such circumstances, the value of primitive and consistent institutions is increasing. Today, the exploiting relationships of powerful states have reached an undisclosed hubris. There is a powerful state of the Republic of Turkey, which calls them "stop!" and strives to be the voice and resistance of the oppressed nations. The truth that should be kept in mind is that the idea of Turkey is greater than the borders of Turkey. Honourable lawmakers have shown that it is our state that is strong and merciful that we extend a helping hand to refugees left homeless by powerful states in the world's political scene. Without a country is the worst thing that can happen to a person. All our government's efforts are to bring them back to their own country. In the same way, when the most important part of the world is deprived of the vaccine, it's the governments that are also the ones who stockpile vaccines. In this regard, our government has extended its hand to poor and deprived countries without delay in the process of vaccinating our nation. We have the honor of serving as representatives of the happiness of being a member of such a state, the strong sense of democracy. This assembly takes power from its people; it gives its breath and its labor to its people. My dear friends, as you can see, during the new legislature, we renovated our aging technological infrastructure so that we could serve our nation without fail or care. We've intended for you to do easier and smoother work. My wish is that this system supports your efforts to make important laws needed during the new era. I wish the new legislature would bring blessings to our government, to our nation. I remember with gratitude and gratitude the memory of all our martyrs, veterans, who gave their lives for the sake of our nation. From the first legislature, who have served under this great roof today, I ask Allah's mercy to those who have inspired the Hereafter, and to those whom we have received today's news of the death of Oğuzhan Nobleturk. I'd like to finish with Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the first President of the Veteran Assembly, said in 1923 in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: "The Parliament is the heart, conscience, and existence of the nation." I wish the new year of legislation to bring blessings, and I pay my respects. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, to make the opening statement for the new year of legislature, Mr. President, the General Assembly Hall is now in session. I welcome them on behalf of our coven. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Now, we'll read our Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2021-10-01sit01spe0002par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with my deepest feelings, with respect, with conversation. I wish that the year of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, the year of the 27th term, the fifth legislature, along with this great institution, would be good for our country and our nation. From the establishment of our Parliament, which is the leader and co-director of the national struggle, I remember all members of our country who served as MPs. For those who have passed away from our parliament, who have left behind a century, I pray for God's mercy, health and pleasure for those who live. On this occasion, my older brother, Oğuzhan Nobleturk, who has died today, who has served as a minister of five years in the past, has taken important political responsibilities, and to God's mercy, and to his family, and to those who love him. I give thanks to all those who have taken possession of our country's legacy and future case, especially the first President of the Grand National Assembly and thebani of our republic, Veteran Mustafa Kemal. Since the victory of Malazgirt, I remember with mercy and gratitude our beloved martyrs and veterans who have fought with their lives to keep our presence in this land, where we have held our homeland with all our hands. With the same understanding, I wish success to our soldiers and security forces, all of whom my Lord will preserve and be victorious. Our council has been honored twice with the title of... but has not left the service to its country and its nation, no matter what the circumstances. On July 15th, just as in the National War, our Parliament did not allow dirty hands to touch this blessed land, this blessed roof. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The sacrifices and efforts of your precious deputies, each serving their country day and night during the hard years of the law, are undoubtedly well recorded in history. Our nation now knows that if the lights of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are on, if Parliament is working, if our MPs are on duty, God willing, this country will not have its back to the ground. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I believe that every statement expressed on the assembly stand was expressed in the interest of the nation. Like every battle we've fought with his nation and his deputies, I believe we can reach our goal of building the great and powerful Turkey together, hopefully. In recent years, I have no doubt that our more productive Parliament will fulfill its responsibilities in reaching our 2023 goals and implementing our 2053 vision. I hope, for the first time in our history, that our offer to bring a new constitution to our country will be successfully carried out by our House. A new constitution, if possible, would be the best 2023 gift we can give our nation. For this, we expect the parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to share their new constitutional proposals with the public as soon as possible. We've started this initiative with the belief that we're responsible for the expedition, we're preparing for it, and ultimately, the decision and the decision is of the High Assembly. I'd like to thank all of you for supporting and contributing to this first constitutional proposal, which we intend to bring to our country by direct will. Dear lawmakers, when we came together last year for the opening of the new year of legislation, we expressed our support and prayer for our Azerbaijan brothers and sisters who fought here to save Karabakh (Karabakh) and their occupied territory. All praise be to Allah, who has fought forty-four days in the battle of Azerbaijan, which resulted in the victory of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan). Thus, the Azerbaijan lands, which have been occupied for nearly thirty years, and Karabak has been liberated again. By visiting Baku and Shusha in person, we shared the joys of our brothers from Azerbaijan. Hopefully, in the coming weeks, we'll be reunited with our Azerbaijan brothers. The developments during and after the battle of Karabuk have served as a turning paper for us as well as our Azerbaijan brothers. We will never forget the hatred and hatred of a country that struggles to save its occupied lands and support Turkey, and we will look to the future by making every experience we have a lesson. We are a country that values the integrity of brotherhood, friendship, friendship, solidarity, cooperation, cooperation, every step of the way. From Syria to Libya, from the Balkans to the Caucasus, from Somalia to Afghanistan, we act with the same understanding everywhere. While protecting our rights and interests in the Mediterranean, we supported the steps our Turkish Cypriot brothers took towards a two-state solution. In this regard, we have taken many important steps, especially the reopening of the closed Marash. We will continue to fight on all platforms for the protection of international agreement-based rights of Turkish and Muslim elements in Western Thrace. While defending the rights of our Crimean brothers on the basis of Ukraine's territorial integrity, we will also be followers of the vastst use of human rights by the Uygur Turks on the basis of the territorial integrity of China. We will keep our hearts wide open to all the people from Palestine and Jerusalem to Kashmir, from Rohingian Muslims to the people living under the security and poverty of Africa. Wherever there's an underdog, wherever there's a victim, we try to be there for them, and we show them. Praise be to the nation and country, there is no shame in colonialism, no shame in genocide, no shame in injustice and injustice in our past. That's why we go everywhere, with our foreheads stretched out, and we express our criticisms and our proposals in a very private way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] This is the reason why our discovery of the United Nations Security Council has been so adopted that it has expanded in time to cover all the faults of the global system. Every development in our region and the world confirms the accuracy and accuracy of this discovery. The new Turkish house, which we recently inaugurated in New York, has taken its place in history as a glorious symbol of its position and architecture as a symbol of our country's entire approach to humanity. Our new Turkevi, our own citizens and officials, will serve with all our friends and brothers, including the Secretary General of the United Nations, who has joined with many of our guests. We are pleased to have given our country such a magnificent piece of work, which we have witnessed already boosting Turkey's international reputation. A thousand years ago there was a double-headed eagle on the crest of the state that made Anatolia a home for us, facing east and west, therefore embracing a vast geography. It is not right for anyone to try to sever the bond of love with Turkey's region, established on such an inheritance. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have all seen together how weak the international community is in the tenth year of Syria's crisis, when we left it behind, to govern both the actual intervention and human support and the flow of refugees. While Turkey alone opened its arms to 4 million losers, there were some who panicked in the face of a few thousand refugees who had reached its limits, leaving rights and law aside and exhibiting inhuman behavior. Almost every day, we meet people who are taken from their palms and tortured, drilled, left to die or forced to return. The owners of this inhumane attitude also violate the United Nations Convention on refugees and their decisions. As a matter of fact, the European Union has slowly begun to terminate its activities in order to oversee its work on refugee traffic in the region. In the dark waters of the Mediterranean, the statistics of how many thousands lost their lives on a journey of hope each year cannot be held. The fate of tens of thousands of refugee children lost in Europe remains unknown. In this regard, there is no significant effort or work except for the initiatives made by our deputies. Only these matters alone should be enough to raise up people with a conscience, morals, respect for people, to answer to those responsible. We also experience similar hypocrisy in the case of terrorist organizations in Syria. In particular, none of the people who ransacked the area on the excuse of DEAC have actually fought this organization. Only Turkey faced this dark organization in the field and soon blew up the balloon that was constantly inflated by someone. But some still continue to support terrorist organizations or a controversial regime with their people on the grounds of the DEA in Syria. Of course, we know that everyone here is trying to get their own agenda in the area under the guise of counterterrorism. To those who allow hundreds of thousands of people to die for this alone, millions of people to be driven from their homes, their homes, their homes, and their homes, to be driven into misery, it is our duty to stand by the truth and the right. (EC PARTY Applause) We have not been driven into a crisis of security or prosperity that we cannot overcome because we have done our human duty, but those who have come out of humanity with it have never found peace and will never find it. People who think that the world revolves around them, that everyone else is responsible for serving them, with every political and social turmoil, with every change in nature, they start to see that it's not the case. The famine in Africa will soon become clear that not only the inhabitants of it but all mankind have a common problem. The melting of glaciers in the Arctic will soon become clear that it is not only the penguins there, but all living things, especially mankind, that are the problem. The tragedy of people fleeing internal conflicts in the distant and remote corners of the world will be understood by time as a danger to everyone. The fact that no one lives in an absolute trust and prosperity fan, that everyone is a part of this great world, through the blessing and burden of everyone. In this photograph, Turkey has established a vision that will allow it to come to its rightful place in its region and in the world, by strengthening its democracy and development. The 2023 targets, which we have declared to be the 100th year of our Republic, will be the first stop in this vision. I believe with all my heart that our National Assembly will play a unique role in the formation of the century ahead. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the past 19 years, we have seen the great breakthrough in state and nation life from education to health, safety to justice, from transportation to energy as the basic infrastructure of this vision. From now on, this vision, which has been transformed from political to national targets, should be owned by all members of our country, starting with our Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Because there's no other Turkey for any of us, no more country for any of us, no more state for any of us, no more future for any of us. We must never take it out of our minds, that we cannot grow by division, that we cannot grow, that we do not grow, that we do not grow, that we do not become strong, that we do not root the brotherhood by fueling hostility, that we do not advance democracy by obsessing over obsessions, that we cannot deepen our horizons by giving up the values that make us who we are. The world's destination shows that we need to stick together, not our differences, but our partners. We follow the example of what happened to societies and countries who failed. They haven't been able to put Turkey in that position until now, and hopefully they won't be able to. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I give thanks to everyone who has worked hard in this success that we have achieved with the dignity, endurance, courage, heroism, and hard work of every member of our nation. On the other hand, one of the greatest services we've done to our country is to change our security strategies. Thanks to our new sense of security based on finding and destroying threats at its source, we have prevented a corridor of terror at the bottom of our borders. We have solved the Kurdish problem, which has been abused by every group, including terrorist organisations for years, with all its dimensions, from rights and freedoms to development. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The same way we personally promised our citizens in Diyarbakır that we would eliminate rejection, denial, assimilation policies, the same way we have broken the chain of backwardness, we will bring down the masks of those who still want to make this a subject of abuse. So we started a period when the mothers of Diyarbakir were able to shake the terror organization with their glorious resistance and reveal the true faces of their political extensions. On this occasion, I salute the Mothers of Diyarbakir once again. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, Turkey has come today as a country that has missed its industrial revolution, trying to grow from the edge of the information and technology revolution. The world is now on the eve of a new and radical transformation, where we see many examples in history. From climate change to artificial intelligence, we have very important advantages to capture this new revolution, where many complex elements are combined. In the last 19 years, when we add the multidimensional tests that we've been experiencing over the last eight years, to the distance our country has traveled in democracy and development, it's a promising picture for all of us. Every critical test we've had, every new opportunity and success we've had, means the distance we've traveled towards a bright future for us. As a country and a nation, hopefully, we will not miss this new change in the global system, but reach the levels we target in every field. In these tests, no doubt, the economy has its own significance and place, as well as all other breakthroughs create the driving force. In the past 19 years, we are responsible for the economy, as is every gain that Turkey has gained. In May 2013, we completed our country's $23.5 billion debt to the IMF, and ended a period when we did not remember it with such pleasant memories. Our central bank reserve, which someone constantly asks, has reached the level of 122 billion dollars. When we look back from the past, we see a Turkey that has tripled its national income, which has risen to 11th place in the world according to the acquisition party; in investment, in production, in exports, in employment, in growth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're not forgetting, of course, that the problems we've been experiencing lately are in the same picture, but when we do a pros and cons analysis, we expect that our pros are too much to compare. With that understanding, I'd like to share with you a current economic assessment. As we have all witnessed, the world has been struggling with problems caused by the global epidemic for the past two years. We're going through a much deeper, much more destructive and transformative period than the world wars of the past century or the burdens of previous global crises. In political, social, and economic life, what we know is right, what we're used to is fundamentally shaken. There are sharp increases in commodity prices, especially in products in the basic defining position of the global economy, and shortages in supply chains continue to be narrowed down in access to raw materials and critical products. As unemployment continues to exist as a global problem, budget deficits and debt rates have reached historical levels in many countries. We're at a time when the supply demand balance has been disturbed, the threat of inflation has increased globally, the uncertainty is increasing. The institutions, such as the IMF and the World Bank, are in serious management crisis. There are questions about the neutrality and transparency of the economic analysis of the global institutions we've been exposed to for a long time, which now puzzles everyone. In a way, the Covid-19 virus also exposed the world-wide diseased and unfair political and economic order. Turkey is one of the few countries that have managed to stay strong during this difficult period, even boosting its power. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, at such a critical time, it is imperative that we open up some truths with power and opposition and set our road map for the future accordingly. First of all, the fact that this outbreak did not occur in Turkey and that our country has suffered the effects of a world-shattering crisis. Another fact is that our country successfully manages this major health crisis and the aftershocks following it through the quick and effective decision-making, implementation, conversion ability of the presidential government system. All services for our citizens in the field of health have been provided without delay and without fail. In particular, the city has provided us with the extraordinary burden of our hospitals to be able to get into the system with high capacity and vast resources. From access to the hospital and the doctor to intensive care and respiratory care, from masking and cleaning supplies to vaccinating, there has been no significant shortcomings, distress, collapse in our country. In most developed countries, scenes that really hurt their conscience because they were caught unprepared for the epidemic because of poor health systems, because their capacity for hospital and equipment was inadequate. We are pleased to receive the fruit of our investments in our country's health infrastructure and human resources with all its elements during such a global crisis. On the other hand, every positive and negative process we've had in the last eight years has been reflected in the economy that I don't need to count once more, but you all know very well. And that's when we faced the plague. As we took every precaution to protect our nation's health, we mobilized our resources to ensure that it maintains its work, its vaccine, its structure. We've taken measures against all sectors to ensure the survival of the Turkish economy, the continuous production, the protection of employment. We've been on the side of our citizens and firms with many different supports to the labour market. We've given grants, rent and turnover support to our tradesmen and artists. We've brought delays to pay taxes and social security benefits. We've made it possible for public debt to be structured. We've given discounts on VAT and rental outages. With all this, we've sustained the most vulnerable parts of society with social support payments. From now on, we will continue to take part in the need, in the presence of each section, and provide the necessary support. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thanks to this policy that we've been following, we've been separated from many countries around the world in a positive way, closing last year with growth. I would also like to make a comparison to be much more dramatic: You remember that in 2009, when there was a serious global economic crisis, both the world and Turkey's economy were shrinking. Last year, the shrinking of the global economy was much more severe than 2009, and there was a narrowing of over 3 percent. In contrast, Turkey has achieved 1.8 per cent growth. Of course, we didn't leave that success in 2020, but in the first quarter of this year, 7.2 per cent and the second quarter, we caught a 21.7 per cent growth rate. Investments and net exports have contributed greatly to growth. So we're a little closer to our goal of stable and sustainable growth. Economic developments in the third quarter of the year continue live, with the help of strong industrial production and export and improvement in the service sector. Hopefully, we'll be able to close the 2021 with a growth of 9 percent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The growth is accompanied by an increase in employment. In the first seven months of this year, the increase in employment reached 1.7 million people, while in total employment, we left pre-infected levels behind. Turkey is one of the number of countries among the OECD countries to increase employment according to the pre-infected period. We've also set our next road map in our mid-term program. During the programme period, we aim to increase average 5.3 per cent year-on-year, employ 1.2 million people each year, increase our national income to over $1 trillion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're actually happy to finally achieve these goals that we've been trying to achieve, even though we've been through so much before, with a bit of delay. It is critical to us that the quality of growth we will receive, stability, revenue distribution, justice, and new jobs for our young people. For this, we will act decisively, with the economic reform programme and the medium-term programme. Dear lawmakers, it is possible that Turkey will take the easy breath we desire in the economy, but by increasing investment, production, exports, employment, it will quickly increase the current deficit to excess. We've reached the best levels of our history in exports, the most important tool of this. Our exports put $210 billion a year behind us, while our exports have come to a pretty good place to meet our imports. Without a doubt, the success of Turkish industry is behind this development in exports. Our industry is rapidly adapting to innovations, increasing its sectoral diversity day by day with its highly dynamic and capable structure. So it turns out we're going to be way above the $211 billion export target we set for 2021. Thanks to strong exports, recovery tourism revenues, and our arrangements for gold imports, a significant improvement has begun in current balance. During the epidemic, global investments were reduced by 35 percent, and it barely slowed us down. At this time, we opened the largest city hospitals in Turkey, two emergency hospitals with 1,008 beds, which we had made available in Istanbul in 45 days. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have also completed numerous investments in the epidemic, such as roads, highways, railways, bridges, tunnels, dams, drinking water and irrigation facilities, factories, defence industry projects. Our private sector has continued its investments in its field uninterrupted. The 10,449 investment incentives issued last year are one of the most important signs. The number of organised industrial zones increased to 325, with 14 new locations completed last year. Production has begun in 12 percent of the industrial regions, and work has been under way at the top of the 11th. Just by these steps, we've established the infrastructure that will contribute $25 billion to the recovery of our current deficit. Thanks to the dynamics of our private sector and the stability of our economic policies, I believe we can completely get rid of the current problem at this time. For that, we want to increase the scale of international investments in our country. In particular, we take every opportunity to encourage our own entrepreneurs to bring global brands to our country, which have not yet invested in Turkey. So by turning our investment incentives into a much more attractive structure, we will bring selective support, including cash incentives. We will provide more support for investments in the new system that are based on equity and in line with regional clustering priorities. We are preparing to create new mechanisms for the integration of our COBIs into global supply chains. We aim to bring our country to a global state in the emerging areas of the future, as well as the defence industry, biotechnology and health industries. Last weekend, we met again in TEKNOFEST, with all generations, especially our young people who were keen on science, research, innovation. We've seen firsthand how our young people who attend our country's greatest technology festival raise the bar every year. Hopefully in the new era, we'll grow our investment, production, export and employment infrastructure by folding it by the hands of these young people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, we don't ignore the inflation issue when we say all that. Unlike developed countries, Turkey is not the first country to face inflation. So we have a lot more experience and tools in fighting inflation effectively. We are determined to reduce inflation to one-digit figures by taking many steps from macroeconomic policies to structural reforms. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're taking measures to reduce both drought and increased input costs on the food side. One of them is the early warning system, which will instantly detect and allow for intervention. We've also taken into account our competitive policies. We're going to be determined on companies that are disrupting the competition, misusing the situation of the judge in the market, and setting the prices in an arbitrary manner. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers receive the power of Turkey's economy from a sound financial sector and a disciplined public finance. The active size of our banking sector reaches 6.7 trillion liras, while the capital efficiency rasio is 17.4 per cent and the conversion rate is 3.7 per cent. Creating a sustainable production structure requires stronger support from the real sector, especially the SMEs, by the financial sector. Likewise, I believe our banking sector will lead the way for funding abroad for the sustainable transformation of our real sector. We want to make the banking sector more efficient and the capital markets stronger. We expect our companies to reduce their dependence on the banking sector and provide long-term financing for their investment through capital market tools. To that end, we're developing market infrastructure by increasing product diversity in our capital markets. In order to encourage the real sector's financing from capital markets, we are implementing the Tahvil Guaranteed Fund, and the Green Bond and Sukuk Guide to finance sustainable environmental projects under better conditions. We continued our strong position in the public finances without compromise during the outbreak. We've determined the national rate of the budget deficit to be 3.5 per cent, especially this year and next year. This year, trade supports, vaccines and medical supplies purchases, short-work grant bonus loss payments, expenses for disasters, paybacks to our civil servants and pensioners for inflation have put pressure on the budget deficit. We've taken measures to ease the burdens that these additional costs bring into the budget. Resuscitation in economic activity also boosted performance on the income side. Thus, the 3.5 per cent budget deficit at the end of the year is clear that we will be able to reach our goal. By reducing the budget deficit, we've strengthened the debt supply as we reduce the need for debt. Our European Union-defined General Management Stock is well below 60 per cent of Maastricht Criteria, which is the proportion of our national income. We will continue to implement a cautious and cautious debt management policy, taking into account the steps taken by the central banks of other countries. We will continue our policy of keeping our cash reserves strong in order to prepare for foreign fluctuations. Dear lawmakers, one of the things that is increasingly prominent in the world's agenda is environmental problems and the disasters caused by climate change. We've already moved our country to a different place in our faith, in our roots, and in our culture, with strong environmental sensibilities. In particular, every project we've done through our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has been recorded as our country's face-blown work on the environment. The nation we see as a windpipe to our cities, we have given our country countless works and services from our gardens to our forest existence, from our Zero Waste Project to the Blue Flag practices. Our decision to present the Paris Climate Agreement, which we announced last week at the United Nations General Assembly, is also the first good news of the Green Development Revolution, which we started. From now on, Turkey will plan and implement every step it takes with that understanding. In harmony with the Green Covenant of Europe, we are determined to carry out our responsibility to humanity, to our citizens, and to future generations. In this context, we're going to increase the rate of renewable energy sources in our total power by weighting solar, wind, nuclear production. We'll speed up our investments in gas supply, production and storage. We will, hopefully, launch the first stage of our current nuclear power plant in Akkuyu, in May 2023, and take the necessary steps to build new power plants. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the industry, we're going to focus on high-tech infrastructure that will reduce energy density, but we're going to encourage applications with low emissions and clean production techniques at a weight. We're going to increase the rate of electric and hybrid vehicle use in transport to increase the cargo and passenger transport of the railroad and the sea road. We're going to make sure that all the buildings have energy IDs, and we're going to expand the zero-energy building standard. We will strengthen production, supply, recycling systems, especially measures to reduce food waste in agriculture. We'll double the capacity of important swallowing resources such as forest and water, then triple it. We're going to expand the zero waste application to within the range of all domestic waste, diversifying the use of recycled materials. The reason why we are subject to these obligations, each of which requires serious work and sacrifices, is because we see this issue as a global security issue for ourselves and all of humanity. We will use all international resources, especially the funds of developed countries, to finance investments in this direction. We are now entering a phase of risk management, along with search, rescue, and reconstruction of disasters. We're going to improve our risk management plans in connection with climate change. We're going to set up a comprehensive early-warning system against meteorological events that are becoming increasingly unstable and rigid. We're going to develop new projects for the transfer of our fertile water resources to the drier parts of our country. Using drones, planes, helicopters, and other means of action, we will strengthen our role model position around the world in the fire that burns our hearts along with the forests. We're going to review the infrastructure and planning of our cities based on this new reality, and we're going to start preparing for the rehabilitation of the present and the standard of the new. We'll move immediately to create effective use of increasingly valuable water sources and infrastructure consistent with climate changes. We're going to promote sustainable techniques in agriculture and livestock. We're going to turn forestry activities into climate change. We're going to plan and implement actions in every field from health to tourism. So, I believe we're going to take this most important and ambitious goal of our 2053 vision step by step. We believe that the new process, which we refer to as the Green Development Revolution, deserves to be taken over by parties. Among the things that we will focus on with precision in the coming period are strengthening the family institution, developing our educational system. Hopefully, when it comes to these matters, we'll discuss them, discuss them, and establish our road map together with our House, as well as our other institutions, and other relevant sections when it comes to them. With such feelings, once again, I wish the Great National Assembly of Turkey's 27th Year of the Fifth Legislature to the best of all. I wish our MPs the best of luck with their work in this new year of law enforcement. I give you all my love, my respect. Peace be with you.
tbmm-2021-10-01sit01spe0003par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2021-10-01sit02spe0004par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 1st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The president's office has a thesis that I'm going to make you read and submit to your knowledge. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey articles 104 and 106, the National Ministry of Education has reached a resolution dated 5/8/2021 and 2021/387. Dr. Mahmut Özer has been appointed. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, according to the statement read, Mr. Mahmut Özer has been appointed Minister of National Education. Under Article 106 of the Constitution, the Minister must take an oath written in Article 81 of the Constitution in front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to call you to the General Assembly for an oath. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Minister of National Education Mahmut Özer took an oath]] [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the issues on our agenda are complete. On Tuesday, October 5, 2021, it is 15 p.m. to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with law proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
