ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24518	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 117 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We will postpone the session by one hour, because we are waiting for a report from the Administrative Board to determine and confirm the mandate of the new MP. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we now have confirmation of the mandate of the People's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dragoljub Vojinovic, elected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Dragoljub Vojinovic. [[Applause]] Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Before we move on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions, I ask you to establish a quorum for such a decision. Please insert your cards into the identification units. Please make sure the cards are inserted correctly. I'm guessing we don't have the quorum to decide, so we'll postpone the session until 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24521	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, first of all, I must express my deepest personal belief that the way this highest House of People is being led by those who are in charge of leading him in the last two days is mildly said, scandalous. So many violations of the Rules of Procedure, not recorded in the history of parliamentaryism, and the way most of them are provided today is something that would have to be dealt with urgently by the public prosecutor and I once again called him to fulfill my duty and to check how the ruling majority today provided their 126 MPs to preserve the naked power. That's not why I went out today. Today it ends exactly three years from one of the most tragic dates in our recent political history. On this day, three years ago, the remains of former Serbian President Ivan Stambolic, who was the victim of the former regime and whose remains were, therefore, exactly three years ago, found in a crack pit in Frusko Gora, were found. As a People's MP, I call on you to pay our respects to Mr Ivan Stambolic and all the victims of the former regime and thus restore the dignity of this parliament and of the citizens that this Parliament represents.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24522	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very interesting that a minute of silence for the so-called so-called. The victims of Milosevic's regime are looking for an MP or head, to this day, of a parliamentary club gathered by Bogoljub Karic. Bogoljub Karic was hardly a victim of Milosevic's regime! Bogoljub Karic and others in this Serbia are attacking the SPS that they have betrayed Slobodan Milosevic and that he loves him more than all of us, and you are now on behalf of that parliamentary group seeking a minute of silence for the victims of the same Slobodan Milosevic. I ask you to come to an agreement within your parliamentary group, which you are a politician for, which you stand for. Bogoljub Karic directly transferred Milosevic's arrest under the "last act". Bogoljub Karic also directly transferred the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic. It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to explain to the people of Serbia that Bogoljub Karic was a victim of the system. Bogoljub Karic has come into existence and everything he owes this Slobodan Milosevic! And it is absolutely immoral to ask for a minute of silence for the victims of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. I understand someone else is looking for it. Also, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the president of your party Nebojsa Covic, until 1996, was a member of the SPS leadership. I guess before 1996, as you consider it, there were victims of this so-called. Milosevic's regime, but then you too bear responsibility because your party's president was in the most senior leadership of the SPS. This is, of course, a reaction to what happened yesterday. It was a civil act for us, because the president of a parliamentary party who has MPs in the National Assembly died. Everything outside and above is a matter of unfeeling politicization. The Socialist Party of Serbia stood up and gave a minute of silence to all those whenever the chairman of the National Assembly asked for it. It was also when Zoran Djindjic was killed, although he was our biggest political opponent, even though he arrested and threatened to destroy the SPS, we felt it was a civil act to give someone a minute of silence. We don't want to comment on how he acted, but I think today's session if we want to politicise in this way, no problem, here, we'll discuss all day whether Bogoljub Karic is the victim of Milosevic's regime, unless you want to say that your MP club has nothing to do with Bogoljub Karic. I saw Mr Meh Omerovic at the Bogoljub Karic's "Sava Center". Is that true? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to use someone's death and not to use this topic to collect political points that are not here. The leaders of your parties are not the ones who were victims of Milosevic's regime, and it is really inappropriate in this way to ask for the respect of someone whose side was not the leaders of your political parties and coalitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24524	Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do not abuse the pay phone and give political speeches under the pretext of breaking the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure yourself, and I'd like to get back to the agenda as soon as possible. Replica, MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24525	It is unfortunate that after three months of break of the Serbian Parliament, we begin the way we started yesterday, and here we are today. From a man who is one, they say, from serious candidates to inherit Slobodan Milosevic, who went out without a suitcase for this speaker, without his government friend, we heard that the explicits mentioned my name and the connection of the SDP to the PSS. Mr Dacicu, the SDP and the PSS, as you all know in Serbia, have an agreement on co-operation. These two parties co-operate, both at the bar and at the level of the Republic Parliament, in the way that we have a parliamentary club in which the MPs are different parties. Unlike you and your party, Mr Dacic, we respect our friends and future coalition partners, we go to meetings when it comes to joy, when it comes to the procedure and when the congresses of their parties are at stake, we will always respond to the calls of our coalition partners. Your coalition partners have shown you and your dead president what your coalition partners are like. So the problems you have with your coalition partners do not pass on to this pay phone and do not burden the Serbian Parliament and citizens with having problems within the party itself and problems within the coalition itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24526	According to the Rules of Procedure, the National Envoy Ljiljana Nestorović.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24527	Dear fellow Members of the People, the reason I called today for a word does not allow me to sit with Mr. Ivica Dacic, who in a very drab way is trying to turn the point. I remind you once again, today has been three years since one of the most tragic dates in our recent history. I expect you, the chairman, to invite the MPs to pay our respects to the former president of Serbia, as well as to all other victims of the former regime, with a minute of silence. It's up to you, of course, to do it or not. Once again I say, I call you as a People's MP and it is your duty to answer that call as chairman, as is the goodwill of each of you sitting in this room whether my call will be appreciated or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24528	You're looking at the Rules of Procedure? Please state a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24529	The Rules of Procedure have been injured because counterpart Nestorovic characterised my exposure in such a way that I, as she says, am trying to reverse the topic. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS condemns every crime that happens and asks for the truth to be determined until the end, but if you speak on behalf of your MP group, do not ask us to listen to Bogoljub Karic attack every day by the SPS leadership that he has betrayed Slobodan Milosevic, that they prefer the Milosevic family, that every day contributions are published in the BK Telefact, etc., and you, on behalf of that parliamentary club, seek a minute of silence for the victims of the same Slobodan Milosevic. Bogoljub Karic published and transmitted the direct arrest of Slobodan Milosevic when it was needed by Zoran Djindjic. Today, when he needs it, he also directly conveys the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about political cynicism. And what Mr Meso Omerovic was saying... Don't talk about the suitcases. What your leaders and Bogoljub Karic have can't be measured by suitcases can be measured by helmets and millions. You're the last one who can talk about it. Bogoljub Karic from this state and from the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic, and in that name and on the fact that he allegedly drank coffee in that house every morning, he acquired everything. He financed his fall, financed those who destroyed him, and today he is trying to make Slobodan Milosevic dead or alive a political point. That's why I called. I can't influence your attitudes. You think you think, but there is no man in Serbia who believes Bogoljub Karic is a victim of Milosevic's regime. I can only say that Slobodan Milosevic and SPS are victims of what Bogoljub Karic and other tycoons were doing at the time when we were in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24530	I'm asking you best to stick to the agenda. I owe one answer to give MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, with all due respect for your proposal and with the conviction of crime and respect for the victims, I have first of all the duty to stick to the Rules of Procedure, which is not to respect your proposal and to move on to the agenda. Do any of the representatives want a word? (Ljiljana Nestorović, from the post: By Business. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24531	Mr. Chairman, since you have already mentioned the Rules of Procedure, this famous letter that you and your colleagues most rarely hold here, I would like first of all to know why in the obvious presence of the President of the National Assembly here today you are chairing this session?- I'm sorry. Secondly, I would like to ask you, do you claim that the Rules of Procedure was not broken yesterday when a few or most of them here, I do not want to enter the number of SPS members, which was certainly not enough for the 84-year working quorum, entered this room and kept a minute of silence from their late president, for which they have the right, but certainly have violated the Rules of Procedure, so now your invitation to the Rules of Procedure and thus, with the explanation that you are and how you agree with the fact that the victims of the previous regime should be regretted, more than hypocritical, and that the public of Serbia should know. Do not appeal to the Rules of Procedure today, if yesterday has not been a rule for you. I call once again on you to, not only Ivan Stambolic, but also on all victims of the former regime, including members of the party you once belonged to, invite you to pay your respects here and thus return your dignity to this parliament and return your dignity to the citizens of Serbia who voted for this majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24532	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Angelkovic, and before you get the word, let me just answer Mrs. Nestorovic. Eventually, if the Rules of Procedure was broken yesterday, don't ask me to do the same. Here you go, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24533	Ladies and gentlemen, of course everyone has the right to try to politicize the Assembly and play with the dead. It doesn't make sense to Ivan Stambolic and to him as a man to play around here. It's an insult to Ivan Stambolic. Three years after his death, to propose is to insult Ivan Stambolic and the abuse of Ivan Stambolic. Independently who is responsible for his murder, and we are not the judicial authorities, but the legislative body and those who would like to be the time in which the legislative body and the MPs of the judge and the prosecutors, this parliament or this parliamentary majority will not allow it. Maybe these promoters would like that, but I'm convinced there's no strength here. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd rather have heard of a minute of silence being suggested for the victims of NATO aggression. I guess that would be fairer, more correct for two and a half thousand people killed in NATO aggression, and this is the first day of the Assembly when NATO bombing and NATO aggression began in 1999. I guess those two and a half thousand people deserve some attitude from you MPs, not political abuse. Third, yesterday, the Assembly began with more than one third of those present. As you know, the beginning of the work of the Assembly is when there are more than one-third of the hall, and at the beginning of the work of the Assembly in determining the quorum there were 112 MPs. I remind you, 84 is enough. So, and this business condition was fulfilled for work, not met for voting on the agenda, which, of course, as you know, was not done yesterday, but today. Therefore, I ask you that those who speak and who try to politically abuse the names of past times, no matter when, they must also take care of them. According to that logic, as suggested here about Ivan Stambolic, I don't even enter whose victim he is, because I said who should establish it, by that logic we should schedule a 12th Assembly for Zoran Djindjic, so for the victims of NATO aggression every 24th, and that would be the smartest thing every 24th March to schedule the Assembly. You didn't remember Mirko Marjanovic, he was the Prime Minister for seven years, and you killed him by putting pressure on him, when you were in power since 2000, according to Progress, you will destroy him and Progress. You've accelerated his death, if that's what we want, but let's not abuse the Assembly. When someone who was a function of this state dies and in the highest functions of parliament should express respect and give up a minute of silence, then and no more. That's the end. When we learn that, regardless of how, as the Socialists came to the O.R. when a minute of silence was expressed for Zoran Djindjic, we were present here, then we will be serious parliament and serious people's representatives, and we will keep political differences for a political fight when it is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24534	Just a minute. National MP Ljiljana Nestorović, you are looking for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24535	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I will be brave enough to leave Serbia to the public and primarily the family of the late Ivan Stambolic to assess whether I am using political and party abuse this moment when I ask this assembly to pay tribute to the former president of Serbia for a minute. Since you, Mr. Chairman, have no intention of doing so and I really don't understand why you won't do it, but let the public of Serbia and the voters whose votes you count on, I invite you, fellow MPs, to pay our respects to the tragically injured Ivan Stambolic, the former president of Serbia and all the victims of the former regime. Praise him!
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24536	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24537	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected students, I've come forward because the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Everyone has a duty to tell the truth about this speaker. I want to inform you and draw attention to the fact that Slobodan Milosevic died under the assumption of innocence. There are 50 lawyers in this room and a minister of justice is sitting. Would you be kind enough to state any verdict in the first degree or any other criminal act that anyone has prosecuted against him? The Socialist Party of Serbia and the Slobodan Milosevic family retain the right to sue anyone who says what you say here today. So, one more thing, I hope they taught you or that they taught us how to treat the dead at home. In Serbia, when a neighbour dies with whom you are in a fight, either shut up or come to make peace and offer your condolences. When children take their driving exams, they are taught in general rules that a procession with the deceased is not overrun. I guess anyone with an elementary education and an elementary culture knows that. There will be days to talk about human dignity and there will be days to look ourselves in the eye and tell each of us who does what, who deserves what, but please, I warn you, do not rejoice in anyone's death and anyone's misfortune, whoever it is and wherever it comes from, because the accident is general and the pain is general. There are people who succeed even when they kill them to exceed their own death, to mark an era. Today or tomorrow, however, everyone in history will get that place history has set for him. Someone's going to be in the dump, but don't just look forward to having the shelter set today. A distance is needed, an understanding is needed, a historical, a human, a political and any other analysis is needed. Members of the SPS by introducing domestic education into this home and representing well-educated people in this home will always do what dignity itself requires at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I ask you not to really abuse the pay phone, not to mention the dead so that some of your political propaganda may be performed, because it is truly tasteless and not dignified and inappropriate to this place and this time. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The proposing representative is Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero, but I see he is not there. Do you, Minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24539	I apologize on behalf of the President of the Council, Mrs. Vidi Petrovic-Skero, because she was in the morning, she had some other obligations and could not attend. I, too, as a member of the Council, will be brief and with a request to conduct these elections, because the courts have a lot of problems. For the matter of efficiency, it's very important that they be filled, and first of all to have people who will control the work of the courts, I mean the presidents of the courts. For these reasons, it is my request that we do this job today and at least fill in the courts and give them the opportunity to act more quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24540	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24541	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honored Presidency, today, as well as several times during this mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about selecting the holders of judicial functions, because there is one general assessment that the situation in Serbia's judiciary is not good. It is also necessary to do a lot from the point of view of creating conditions for the work of people in the judiciary and from the point of view of organisational and technical conditions, from the point of view of material conditions, but also from the point of view of professional conditions in terms of the selection of quality people who should work in the Serbian judiciary and to bring as much to the public as possible two general concepts, which are used as synonyms when mentioned by the judiciary, is a link between justice and justice. In fact, several times in the past five years, I have said that the twilight in Serbia's judiciary occurred when the DOS party committee decided in 2001 that only party-like judges could be elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and could be someone representing the judiciary. I spoke several times about the fact that, unfortunately, then elected people who had a 10-12-year average of study, a 6-7 average, that the only top criterion was a political resemblance, a willingness to listen and to pass the DOS personnel commission. The other day in the paper, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia's Supervisory Board confirmed that my allegations a few years ago are saying that more than 50 per cent of Serbian judges who came outside Serbia's judiciary are therefore not competent enough to deal with the problems that exist in the judiciary. It has been said that it is the graduate lawyers who have worked either in the Ministry of Justice or in various enterprises, that there are also lawyers among them who, again, do not know the judiciary in the way that justice and citizens of the Republic of Serbia need it. I mentioned several times that in a year and a half 150 presidents of Serbia have changed, and you can find out for yourself from these two figures, one that also confirms the chairman of the Supreme Court of Serbia's Supervisory Board, that 50 per cent of judges have changed and 80 per cent of the president of the courts, what is the situation in the judiciary. I must say that these changes, and above all since 2001, a new phase in the development and work of the Serbian judiciary is emerging, a kind of pragmatism that is now being fought over by the head of Serbia itself. At that time, in 2001, on the basis of an illegal decision, i.e. against the constitutional decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one solution from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the SPS Slobodan Milosevic was taken from prison, kidnapped, to The Hague. And it all went unresponsive to anyone in Serbia's judiciary. Neither was the investigative judge responsible for this, nor did the District Court president react, nor did the Supreme Court react, nor did the prosecution react. It has opened the space, since then, for everything that has happened in Serbia, for a kind of application of the principle – who is good to us remains outside the law, whom we want to prosecute, it will be the subject of justice. Unfortunately, party policy has made DOS policy a major problem in the work of the Serbian judiciary since then. No wonder we see international actors acting the same way today. Therefore, it should not be surprised when there is no consistency of the international community in their story that law enforcement and law enforcement should be respected. If the international representative for Kosovo and Metohija can call on countries to ignore the international warrant for Ceku, who is responsible for the death of over 600 people and for the disappearance of a certain number, for all those crimes he committed, then we simply need to understand that there are interests in international relations and there is respect for the principle of force above law and that this is something that is currently a mark of international relations. Thank you, colleague, I'll mention that. Therefore, we should not be surprised that the Hague tribunal, founded in 1993 with one intention, has turned completely into something else during its trial, and when you show and prove that it is true, then those who most popularised The Hague tribunal and the need for co-operation with them do not have answers to simple questions. How is it possible for the number of Serbs in Croatia to decrease from 12% to 4% without anyone from the state summit being charged? How is it possible for a general who participated in ethnic cleansing of Krajina Serbs today to be elected prime minister of the Kosovo government? How is it possible in 1999 that our country would be subject to aggression and 78 days bombed by 19 of the world's greatest forces without being able to find any but absolutely no evidence that they were responsible?- I'm sorry. How can Haradinaj be charged with political action? How is it possible that out of 123 indictees in The Hague, about 69% are Serbs? Is this just such a coincidence and is it, in fact, right, Iglberger, Albright and Genscher who claimed in 1994 that this court was intended to punish Serbs? Think carefully about this because this principle of interest and selective application, unfortunately, is present with us, because since then some are being prosecuted, against them is the law, and others are immune from anything. I mentioned the case of judicial silence in the kidnapping of President Milosevic. But they were very zealous when it came to accusing the Socialists in 2001 of the famous abuses of the official position, with this member of the law being interpreted so widely that they simply enriched judicial practice in their own way, i.e. judicial practice in the Republic of Serbia. I have to mention, because I owe it to my colleagues who have been subject to this kind of work of justice, that there has been an indictment or indictment in situations that, I say, are completely incomprehensible to most people. There have been cases where charges of abuse of official office were filed and when the defendant acted in accordance with the law, but allegedly failed to obtain the necessary consent of the higher authority, although the law did not oblige him to such a procedure. Then, a criminal complaint against the SPS members was filed even in those cases where he himself found that the participant in a particular procedure acted in accordance with the powers and powers he had and that in all cases he had no personal benefit, which suggests that the indictment was based on political motives. A criminal report has also been filed against persons who were often not direct commanders. Above them were two or three leaders against whom the indictment was not filed, but against a SPS member, saying the indictment was based on political motives. A criminal application has been filed for abuse of official position and in those cases where the contracting authority and the business authority have accepted that the work has been done in accordance with the provisions of the contract between those entities. In some cases, criminal charges have been filed for abuse of official position due to alleged non-compliance with the business procedure of the authorities, although the same work on that body is not disputed, etc. I had to mention this because, simply, we have survived so much over the past few years under DOS work that there is an absolute obligation to mention it. I must say that this selective justice has been present with many people. Several months ago, I mentioned the example of the President of the Second Court's behaviour and the fact that he is absolutely politically experiencing and doing his job. I have been publicly criticised by some, to say, the gray eminences of the Serbian judiciary that I dare say something like that in the first place, given that it is an expert, etc. Believe it or not, after a change at the head of the Second Court, on our renewed request, the request has been repeated multiple times, we have received one Supreme Court resolution regarding the fate of the party premises of the SPS. Believe it or not, the Supreme Court reached a solution two years before that that abolished the ruling of the District Court and of the Second Court; that solution was returned to the Second Court, and that solution stood in a drawer with someone in court for two years and no one was considered mandatory to mention anything about it. It's an absolutely selective approach. When you want everything can be done, and when you don't want to do something, then you get a third. I did not notice that the Serbian judiciary reacted in any way, for the biggest robbery in the history of the Serbian state, for the rigged purchase of the Sartid system, because the anti-corruption council report says the company was sold for $21.3m, and that the estimated value of the combination was $55.6m. I mentioned to you the example of abuse of official position when people are socialists because of the unintended spending of funds, because of the alleged abuse of official position, because of 15, 20, 30, 50, 100, 200,000 dinars, while precisely knowing where these funds were spent, they received criminal charges and were subject to court and tothrall for several years. And when sales are made, where everyone's in the state, and it sells companies where the difference is over $35 million, then everyone's quiet. It says here that all documents were delivered to the judiciary, both the courts and the prosecution and the Supreme Court. And keep quiet about the biggest robbery in Serbia. When one combination is sold for $21.3 million, and the value established by the Economic Institute is $55.6 million, then it's a robbery. There's no other thing for that than a robbery. On the other hand, the state gives up, writes off $1.7 billion of the Sartida obligation and transfers it to the back of all of us taxpayers of the Serbian state. Then you can think about what's going on in the state of Serbia and everybody's quiet. Or the people in the judiciary will shut up. If they were silent when Milosevic was kidnapped, if they were silent when the Socialists were subject to political persecution, if you are silent in this case, one must wonder what they are actually doing or how they are doing. We have an example, as the SPS parliamentary group is addressed by various people, the person subject to trial in the First Belgrade Court. Believe it or not, this procedure has been established for five years by graphologists that two signatures on certain documents have been falsified. You can imagine, two signatures were forged. After this graphological report, the trial is interrupted at the end of the trial, although all witnesses were heard, and all other written evidence was carried out. The artist is not even allowed to plead to the additional requirements made by that person. Otherwise, it was a trial in the Federal Election Commission, a case that was known to Serbia in 2001, and then it fell completely into oblivion. The subject of course went to the First Court and stood there for eight months, then was given to another judge in the work and everything starts from the beginning, because, of course, in criminal proceedings, the rule is that after the change, the larger procedure is going on again. No one is talking about human rights being violated because, logically, the court that forged the signatures could judge someone for allegedly committed crime. The procedure, of course, takes place again, and for the rights of the accused, who takes account. I'm saying this because it's a person, and it's now getting that political dimension, which was the President of the Trade Court and the judge of that court, Milena Aregina. And she was suspended from the position of judge and president of the court on 9 October 2000, of course, by a procedure that was absolutely legal violence. This change, this procedure of legal violence, was not done in accordance with the Law on Courts, without prior control of work and without proper legal instruction. So it can be said directly that it was a couple of excellent legal violences that, unfortunately, since then, have become detached in our justice system. Nor did the minister of justice ask for the person to change, as this would be a direct interference of the executive authority in the court, a session of all judges and the president of the Senior Court of Commerce was not held, either. It is also one of the examples of how it was done in the Serbian judiciary. So, this one pragmatism, which has gone since 2001, is absolutely present. Well, then the behavior of the people in the judiciary doesn't need any of us to be surprised, because most of them, a number of them, I have to be honest with a large number of judges and prosecutors, doing a very correct job. But those elected here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia only because they were members of the DOS, members of the DOS party, or have passed the DOS staff committee, when it comes to judges or those elected at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when the Law on Public Prosecutorial Function was amended at the time of the emergency, when prosecutors were directly elected by the Government, it is known what they could have been then elected to those functions! Only those who were ready to be the fist of the Democratic Party and those of the small DOS satellites who then led the government could be chosen at the time of "Sabre"! No wonder we have a situation now, when we know how these people were elected, when we see how they judge, that we can realize that the situation in Serbia's judiciary is not good. And once a verdict is passed, we have the fact that then the judiciary is no longer competent, but that pragmatism which has become a mark of the Serbian state, the Serbian state has been re-repeated in the past few years with other state authorities. Then we have cases that although there is a court decision that no one applies it, even though there is a court decision no one cares about it, that although there is a court decision, no one is worthy of it. Because if people see how the court behaves, so there are double criteria, if they see that prosecutors are selective in relation to when someone should, I say, bring a person to justice or leave someone out of the reach of the law, then people wait or change time, so that we can build a country as it should be, that the institutions are founded, and that we respect the law, that we apply it, and that there is something called justice, or so they will continue to selectively apply it. Mr Veljko Momčilović, our parliamentary group, the SPS, who is one of the owners of the company "Bačka" and he, for example, works, mentions an eclectic case of contempt of the court's decision, for example, when there is a Supreme Court decision that no one applies. Why? Because, unfortunately, for these aforementioned reasons. Although no one is questioning the privatisation, it is an attempt to introduce a false bankruptcy, which has failed. Of course, I don't mention what happened during that period of false bankruptcy, how this huge property was destroyed, then people simply realize that one and the other's personal and social goal cannot be reached, and that the perpetrators of the criminal acts of punishment and that the court decision is applied. And that is why it is important that, today and the next days, when we choose the holders of judicial functions, we do not make mistakes, to choose the right persons, because they will then do the job, of course I am counting in the interests of Serbia and the interests of the citizens. I must say that our parliamentary group has agreed in the consultations that we had before this session began, in relation to the High Council of Justice's proposals that it is necessary to challenge several proposals, and I must mention that, for example, the proposal for a Judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Varosa is not a proposal that we can criticise. I do not enter the working and professional qualities of the candidates, but we believe that there are simply better quality people in Novi Varosha who can do this responsible job and for this reason we have agreed to dispute as a parliamentary group that choice. We also dispute the candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Kula for political bias and for the fact that as a candidate for the President of the Court he deals with affairs that are not the case of the President of the Court. My colleague Zivojin Stefanovic will speak much more and more in detail than I do, compared to the candidate for the District Court Judge in Leskovac; the way this man works during his time in the judiciary absolutely shows that he cannot be accepted and supported as a candidate for the District Court judge. By the way, it's about a man who was a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, so in the five-octobaric changes, he changed the side faster and better, and then several Socialists were subject to prosecution and eventually it turned out to be nothing. But people have experienced very bad things thanks to this man's willingness to accuse others of protecting himself. We also challenge the judge of the District Court in Capco, again for showing one willingness to be the subject of political...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24542	Mr. Obradich, just one suggestion. If there are more judges, I'd ask you to name it. If the judges are a district court, because, look, we have a warning that they won't know which judge they're referring to if there are more judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24543	Mr. Mikhailovich, one, two, three, four, I mentioned four judges and four courts. If the Service can't find out who four judges and four courts are, then that kind of service isn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24544	No, Mr. Obradich, the only question is where there are more suggestions. No, there isn't. There isn't? Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24545	So is the candidate for the District Court Judge in Sapac, here, if the Office insists, Mr. Knezevic, candidate for the District Court in Leskovic, Mr. Stojanovic, candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Kula, Mrs. Gordan Suknović (I think he writes) and candidate for the municipal court in Novi Varosa, Mrs. Marinkovic. So there are reasons I mentioned, and much more detailed about some of them will be spoken by my fellow MPs, and that is why we MPs feel that they cannot and should not be elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24546	Does any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Before I give you my word, just to let you know that we're going to be working today for the rest of the debate on the first item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24547	For some period of three months, we are essentially discussing the same point of the agenda, which is the choice of holders of judicial functions. The procedure is well-known, as far as the SRS is concerned, but the law is so. It's some kind of leak of a series of failed changes to the Judges Act. This is very interesting for the public, much less for the President of the Supreme Court, the High Council of Justice, the Great personal council, the Supervisory Board at the Supreme Court and those involved in administrative oversight within the Ministry of Justice. We have come to the situation today that, no matter who we choose as judge or president of a court, we are complicit in a great risk. Here, today, I am taking a huge risk that after this item of the agenda in many newspapers and in many media, there is no information on how the legislative authority interferes with the work of the judicial authority, as inappropriate criticism from this assembly pay phone is heard. Let me remind you, it's something you've heard a long time ago. Just to remind you of that letter where the High Council of Justice strongly protested against the National Assembly, which dared that 17 proposed candidates for the Presidents of the Courts did not vote here, and allegedly, that demeaning the High Council of Justice and at all some of their independence and independence. Of course, as soon as it's a little bit of a distraction, and when it approaches the definition of those concepts that they used, they retreated faster and better. I am now not taking them as a subject of debate, but I am taking one fact that everyone today can comment on the court's first-degree verdict. A few months ago, we had a chance to get Natasa Kandic and others outside the special court building, and they're commenting on the judge's first-degree verdict, I think it was Vesko Krstajic. He was on trial in the Sheepman case. We from the SRS had to keep our mouths shut. Minister, it would be good for you to sit down, hear or take a stenogram, because I'm saying this for you and the public, not for those present in the O.R. We didn't comment on that, because we're counting on a regulation, and it's called the Court Order Act, where it's explicitly forbidden to comment on a verdict. There is a Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, where there is also a ban; there is a Code of Criminal Procedure. These bans on commenting should allow for the independence and independence of those who deal with this very responsible work – to judge in some case. If Natasa Kandic can break the legal obligation and that no one is persecuting her for that, above all, I mean the Republic Public Prosecutor, the District Attorney. Just to remind you, when you chose the district attorney, you said he was extremely capable of applying the law. I call him why he's not chasing Natasha Kandic. She broke the law because she commented on a first-degree verdict, and the first-degree verdict is also subject to complaints and the possibility of it being consolidated, abolished, annulled, confirmed, we do not know, but only a judicial verdict means that someone is guilty if it is determined. For what was done in that court, I remind you, first of all, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who did not have the opportunity to read what was going on there, may have been able to hear the fragments of the closing words of one of the defenders, who noted all the failures made by those who dared to judge in such a way, under the influence of Natasha Kandic and US Embassy legal adviser, it is a certain Sam Nazaro. He sits next door in the court's office and dictates judgments. Now the minister is running away from me, and first of all, I'd like to ask him how did this state let the Council of War Crimes and the D.A. go to Washington with that Mr. Sam Nazar to do some training? What training, when the United States has no experience with war crimes? In all their practice after World War II, I don't count on what they've judged in the Far East, but what's originally theirs as well as Vietnam, Panama, etc., they don't have court practice. It's the only state that won't allow itself to be built and to start a permanent war crimes court. They ratified the Rome Statute, but when Bush came, he refused to hand over ratification instruments and, practically, the United States is not members of the Statute, and those bilateral agreements require immunity and exemption from persecution for the war crimes of its soldiers, who are located around the world as occupiers. Now you need to teach Vesko Knezevic, then, another prosecutor, probably that lawyer Dasic, probably also witnesses of a fellow associate, a bloody Bora, a pathological killer, and that we have a court dispute set up. For what? Because of The Hague. Our judiciary is silent. Now someone's going to ask what that has to do with the judge's choice. There is. If the ones you suggested should work like those judges, we're against it. To those who are proposed we draw attention – take the law and regulations and work, do not be influenced by foreign tutors. You won't get anything good, they'll just have a professional ruse, like that judge in Novi Sad, and I won't argue any further. Now, I don't want to comment on the verdict, I didn't go into the meter whether it was someone's fault, if it was right, but I went in to give the facts of what was the background of a court case and to give concrete evidence of who was involved, how it was involved, and what it was doing, why the witness's statements were not accepted, why not to accept the notorous fact that someone was incapacitated that day, during treatment, and physically couldn't be at some location. No, the verdict was dictated by Sam Nazaro. When you consider the Supreme Court, consider these procedural disturbances. That's the first thing I wanted to tell you. I'd like to point to something that's going on with us right now. I'm not going to say it on a flat-rate basis right now -- we know what the situation in our judiciary is, we know what Batic's got into court. We also know that he provided a car, whose wife should be employed; the woman in court, the husband of the main mobster, like the one in Prokuplje, etc. It's all known to the Ministry and the Supervisory Board, and we all know it, and we all feel it. Mr. Minister, I will now draw your attention to a matter where you in the Ministry have given, according to my assessment, a positive and correct opinion. It concerns one criminal organisation that exists on the prosecution's route – the Third Municipal Court – the Fourth Municipal Court – advocacy. I have even two acts from the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Alliance for Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, as it is now called. You will likely be familiar, given that the case is before the Supreme Court, to take a joint expert opinion, because there will be a lot of cases where it is necessary to resolve the fate of once nationalised assets. Earlier owners have been paid abroad, and then there are counterfeits in the desert procedure, so we have a situation, so I don't remind you because you know it well, 23 agreements exist; after World War II Yugoslavia concluded 23 agreements on flat-rate and global compensation for foreign property, etc. The Supreme Court has given you, but for nothing, what good is it when this woman from the Fourth Municipal Court, I must remind you, she is famous in these evictions, that is Aleksandra Vasiljkovic, does not want to delay the solution, although the woman has 21 disputes over the redeemed apartment. Mr. Minister, let me tell you, there's a group behind this. As a confidant, a girl named Milica Stepanovic reportedly sold it, although she was in the dispute, to Milivojevic Stojan. At the same time, he runs 10 procedures to move people out of 10 apartments. The same way, once nationalized, that owner from abroad was paid through a counterfeit or after 50 years of renewed leaven proceedings, a settlement on inheritance was reached and then moved into a galatias. And, there is a lawyer, famous, Miroslav M. Djordjevic or his deputy, Milan Šukovic, and usually in the second-degree council in the District Court there are judges Gordana Todorovic, and in the Third Predrag Vasic, who doesn't even know what nothing is. That woman's gonna be out in a few days, all by the book; the police are making official notes even when she's not going there, corrupt, connected. Why is this necessary? Because it takes one location to be freed in this way, because there is an urban plan planned to build a 4000 square-square business space. If he won these apartments for free, he'll clean up the location cheaply without telling you how it's gonna be later. And it's known both in courts and in the D.A.'s office. I didn't mean to read the letter on purpose, I can warn you, it's an act of the Su. 132/2006 since 7 March 2006, in the signature of Snezana Andrijević, a lady who works in the Supreme Court, says very correctly she needs to take a stand on increasingly frequent cases. And I've only led you to this one or his brother to have 10 such 'nit onion smells, or eat onions', through lawyers and fined desert procedures after 50 years of getting to some paper and now they're throwing out, and how this woman is going to prove, God help her. I can't help her, the Ministry can't help her, the police can't help her, the Supreme Court can't help her. And who's bothering her? Mafia! Organized, white collar. It contains lawyers, judges, some prosecutors and someone from the police. Chuck, the police say they have a criminal record of a woman who's never been convicted in her life. They went in to do some checking, to make an official conversation, and they never made an official conversation with her. We here as a legislative authority say that it is all right, everyone is in charge, wondering, and where is effective protection – there is no protection. The third thing I want to draw attention to, whether you choose these people or not, you know to challenge a few candidates yourself, accept our initiative, say, 20%, 80% don't accept our initiatives, vote, and after two months come and say, you were right when you challenged that man, we didn't know, we weren't informed about what kind of man he was. My colleagues from the SRS will come out after me and say some more names. I would like to draw attention to these people who are proposed for these functions, and if you choose them, to our judiciary heads Natasa Kandic and Vojin Dimitrijevic. However, he is her boss, but she is his extended arm. There's these others. And there's the media. You see, a few days ago, there was a problem with why three children at a funeral were giving a minute of silence, etc., and on the same day in Novi Sad, children with a pioneer scarf waiting for Tito's train with a director and actor of a movie. This is abuse, and it's not abuse. You see how that changes with us, how you brainwash public opinion. So this is abuse, and no, this isn't, this is interesting, this is desirable. Now, because of this desire, I want to draw your attention, but it is an interesting thing that none of us in our judiciary will raise the voice that our people can judge in Serbia, and none of them raise their voices, nor the Association of Lawyers, nor the Association of Judges – the Society of Judges, all of you are silent as watered, that Vojislav Seselj has been in custody for three years in Seveningen, that it is still a pre-emptive phase; so it is not yet an investigation, however, Carla del Ponte has not even started an investigation against him, she has not even had that first conversation with him. He's not allowed to communicate, he's being forced on guard alert, and he's the only man on the globe who has a defense attorney on alert with whom he doesn't communicate, he doesn't want to see him. Who's that? A man who wasn't listed in a directory run by The Hague tribunal, a man who doesn't even speak Serbian, but is a friend of the court's secretary. This is the one that organized the poisoning of Slobodan Milosevic, and probably has other dirty material for him, or for the dirty work he did in The Hague. He shares money with our lawyers who defend someone there. In The Hague is a saying – God forbid a lawyer defends you, because in a moment they agree with Holcias, with Karl del Ponte and others. He's not allowed to communicate, he's not allowed legal counsellors, he's denied the request to be released until the trial begins, because you know there's no defense from freedom, and he's been waiting for three years. Two years ago, they said -- we start in December 2004. It is forced to provide documentation in English, although it is his right to receive it in his native language. Abuse to abuse. Our experts, experts, humanists, they rub their hands and say, "It's good there, it doesn't disturb the elections, it won't spoil anything here, and for his human rights it doesn't matter, it proves innocence there." Please, I'm going to suggest a resolution that whoever says that the Hague is proving innocence, that this man is being prosecuted because he is disabling the public, affecting public opinion and knowingly misread international human rights acts. It's done orchestrated. Great knowers of international humanitarian law teach us that. I guess innocence is supposed to be. In order for someone to be guilty, it is necessary to prove themselves legally in court proceedings, with all the rights which the accused has, and above all, the right to an expeditional trial without undue delay or within a reasonable period of time, in order to at least make it look like a fair trial. You're all quiet in Serbia. Let me remind you, this one of yours, Vučetic, who has met the conditions for retirement should report, inform the National Assembly, and I request the chairman to send a letter to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia asking whether any of the judges have met the conditions to retire. None of the lawyers object. Why did the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia come up with a solution and could only pass it if an individual act was passed under some law, he passed a solution and disabling a law adopted by the National Assembly and the National Assembly kept silent. We were at the hearing, representing interests, defending that law, finished, kept quiet. Vučetic must not decide anything, either for or against it. If the judges, the ones you're proposing, are supposed to act like Slobodan Vukevic, I'm not voting for them. If these judges are to complete a criminal organisation society, and I have taken only one example where a lady had 21 judicial disputes, where even the Republic's Attorney-General was lightly moved, he did not want to protect the property of the Republic of Serbia, or even the Vracar municipality, without entering criminal barriers. Please, with what right do you ask of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24548	Mr. Krassic, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24549	One more second, Mr. Mikhailovich. We can't support this. Of course, there is a vote here on individual candidates, especially those who are challenged. We retain the right to define how we will vote, and the MPs of the SRS in the follow-up to this use of time that we have will present several concrete examples, but only a few concrete examples. We could have pointed out a lot more, but we're really asking a question – what's it worth when you don't accept our suggestions? It is not a matter of whether or not they will win, but you do not accept our proposals, and you yourself are aware that the situation in the judiciary cannot be changed simply by choice in this way. You believe it, he can't just do it this way. There's something else to look at. There's got to be better control of what's done. I told you my time. Let's get to the level of that court practice that would be binding on judges. Maybe it's a way to get them to apply the law the same way without touching their independence. Unfortunately, no one wants to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24550	The word has an authorised representative of G17 plus, MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24551	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the Assembly is ahead of a decision on six decisions of the High Council of Justice, which concern the selection of 16 candidates for the presidents of the courts and 34 candidates for judges. So 49 holders of judicial functions. This is an extremely significant function that this congregation has. This assembly adopts laws, and courts apply them to specific cases and, by applying the laws, they resolve specific rights and obligations of citizens. So it is a huge responsibility of this congregation to really choose those who, in a professional way, are worthy of their quality and their relationship to each individual case to apply this regulation, to establish such a case law, that we can really go towards achieving that always assumed part of the rule of law. So far, this assembly has chosen several hundred holders of judicial functions, but not only that, this assembly has created conditions that courts can operate according to regulations that allow them better protection and faster resolution of citizens' rights. So we've passed the Law of Parley Procedure, the Law of Executive Procedure and a series of other regulations of organisational nature that created the conditions for the judiciary to function more effectively. I'm not saying that for no reason, because it's quite simple for certain objects to be resolved in a shorter period so that citizens can move faster, in a simpler and more efficient way to exercise their rights. The fact that justice is slow, but available, is not enough for citizens when they have been waiting for justice for years. Our goal here in the Assembly should be to amend the rules governing the deadlines for the handling of courts, to make these deadlines mandatory, cognitive and to sanction through the selection procedure, or the resolution of the holders of judicial functions of those institutions that do not comply with the law of certain deadlines. I will give an extremely good example of how one law, such as the Law on Executive Procedure, arranged a decision-making process that was extremely complicated and complex by solving a reduced executive procedure. Where an application for enforcement is submitted, and where the court, on the basis of a document authentic, adopts a solution, when it obliges the debtor to submit relevant documents to which it disputes, a litigation procedure shall not be opened immediately and the three judges shall have the price of whether the documents submitted by the debtor are relevant in order to be brought into litigation or to confirm and release the execution. It is an excellent, dutiful procedure that has allowed many judgments to be carried out much easier and simpler until they have not been made, and by making the proposal itself and by proving that the proposal is based on the law. So, the court does not make a decision on the basis of a case, but makes it on the basis of the documents themselves and executes it on the basis of the documents, with the later right of the debtor to make any other announcements, except for the documents he was obliged to file at the outset. So we need those kind of procedures. In my opinion, we need this to speed up the litigation procedures to some extent, and in another way – by setting up the time in which they are first-degreed, but also by the second-degree court and the Supreme Court in the audit procedure, to decide on the requirements of the suit, on the regular legal remedy and on the emergency legal remedy. I think it is necessary, I think that we have the quality of the judges who will be able to fulfil their obligations to the citizens within a certain period, to decide not only in the first degree, but also in the second degree, which is when the debate is being held, on the other hand, and on the revision when it comes to the emergency legal remedy. So my proposal would be for us to continue reforming the rules, in order to really arm everything that is possible and to prepare an organization through appeals courts to make certain things, such as the procedure of regular legal medicine, take place faster and more effectively for the citizens. With regard to the motion for decisions we have here before us, we have discussed this in detail on the parliamentary group. We don't have a lot of objections to what the High Council of Justice has proposed. I can, with the approval of realizing that indeed there are fewer and fewer objections to what the High Council of Justice is proposing, which is good, given the letter mentioned here. We have responded to the call of the High Council of Justice, some have not responded. We discussed the High Council of Justice and established certain parameters related to the professional judge, dignity, etc. that neither we here nor on the High Council would be confused about what is crucial to the choice, or the resolution of judges. I think that contact with the High Council is useful, and I've really responded to that. Although the letter followed, without some preparation and consultation, was not good and such a way of communication should be avoided. So the High Council of Justice could simply communicate the way it was done at the joint meeting. So, let me get back to the subject. We have six decisions here. We disputed, given what we had from the documentation, which is decision 119-184/06, from 31.01.2006, under regular number 8. Ruzica Nikolic, for the President of the Municipal Court in Stara Pazova. The dispute came in a rather unusual way, at least in current practice; eight judges of the Municipal Court in Stari Pazova addressed the High Council, the minister of justice, the president of the Supreme Court and parliamentary groups. So eight judges with names and last names and signatures contesting the judge's expertise and dignity. They've sent complete documentation. It's about records from college meetings, which were recorded from 27.06 last year and 14.10 last year, showing that out of eight judges, six votes received one, and zero votes received a candidate who is now being proposed. The G17 plus parliamentary group is of the opinion that unless a candidate for the president of the court enjoys the trust of most judges, he will not be able to satisfactorily perform the role of the president of the court. On the other hand, there are certain shortcomings in the quality of work. We've been considering these things, unequal quality of work, some years satisfying, some not. So these are two criteria why we cannot support this candidate's election as President of the Municipal Court in Old Paz. In the end, I want to say that we have noticed a lot of extensive activities of the Supreme Court, especially of the President and of the Ministry, which are directed to make the courts more up-to-date, more complete and studio-oriented, especially when it comes to deadlines. These activities have produced really good results and there are plenty of citizens who show satisfaction by speeding up procedures and solving cases more quickly. Of course it's not enough, it's a start and it's a very good start. We insist that it continue to be supervised in the form of judicial administration or judicial administration. Is this done by the Ministry of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, because every case we speed up means a lot to the one who's been waiting years for that case to be resolved. So, you need to continue with this process, you need to continue with the introduction of modern data processing tools. It's in Novi Sad to a certain extent done. I expect it to be installed software that would also allow better information for citizens during the proceedings on the one hand, and on the other hand for judges to work easier. We therefore support all these proposals, support activities for all organs, and think that we could contribute to more efficient work and the adoption of many amendments, or existing regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24552	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, handed over to the SRS, DSS and SPS parliamentary groups. I give my word to MP Živojin Stefanovic, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I thought today was going to be Madam President of the Supreme Court, so I wanted to speak to her. I think it's a risk to speak on this subject from this pay phone, because whatever we say, nothing is realized. The choice of legal holders is worse than ever. I chaired the committee for a year which you, sir, now chaired, and it was a far better choice, not because I chaired, but because the way you checked, the way you proposed, the way you came, everything was different, there were more consultations. Today is exclusively done, just today, not then, by party membership. I thought that would change. The President of the Supreme Court continues to extend exclusively to the people who were in that yellow regime, who then brought her to that place, and now we choose. Unfortunately, I voted for her reelection, too. Now, if I could, I'd withdraw my voice. It is not important that we influence, because it is 22, but when it comes to the impudent judiciary, I will ask my colleagues not to participate in the work of the Assembly at the time, not to give legitimacy to those candidates and the proposals you make, the High Council of Justice and in this case the Justice Committee. As a matter of fact, nothing changes. Just be ours and do what you know. So, I think our group's position was expressed by Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of our parliamentary group, and I fully support it, as Mr Krasic said. It's a feature of the entire judiciary. We face similar situations down there that the judiciary faces at a higher level. Look today, all newspapers are crawling with inscriptions – Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic visited the defendants in prison. He doesn't answer, Mr. Blanusha will answer, because the judiciary and you seem to be afraid Chad will come back as Deputy Prime Minister again, so he'll turn them all around. That's the only reason, there's no other reason. Last time, the DSS challenged the choice of President of the Trade Court in Leskovac, although he was one of the better candidates. The court has top judges, but this did not suit Mrs. Vidi, because for two years the court refused to enter the value of the capital "Health" and small shareholders, to buy Vlahovic, a former minister, for only 3.2m euros, it is a company worth more than Pliva, and Plivu today buys the same company that bought and "Health" for a billion dollars. It's basically because he had to make a senior trade court come up with a solution like that. No judge answers to her and the High Council of Justice, and she has now sent a V.D. for these judges. from Nis, as if we were all underage, stupid, incompetent in Leskovac. It's a shameful act, no matter who it is, even from the President of the Supreme Court. Now they say, one of them will come again, this will just be temporary, just until they spoil relations in that court. The President of the District Court has been elected who, along with the head of the SUP, the district attorney, is part of the lawyer's real group, I won't say that it's criminal, because I don't have enough evidence, but a group in the field of justice to judge, judge, and if you belong to that lawyer to defend you, you know the verdict in advance, you don't have to worry. That's why a second-degree judge is needed in the District Court. Now they're proposing a man who, by all criteria, can't be a judge at the moment. But someone needs it, because Mrs. President of the Supreme Court has declared the District Court in Leskovec one of the better courts; whether at some secret dinner or secret lunch, with a report that's quite haired, perfumed, incorrect... that he's one of the better courts. Yes, that court was one of the best, he even had a minister as president of the court at the time. Now he's just returning the cases to administrative proceedings. Is it a good court that has the right, or control of lower courts, that one case, I mean one where the impudent judges don't want to judge, not that they can't, has already six litigations, sends the case further, and he hasn't been resolved in Leskovac for four years. There are cases that wait 20 years, mostly some disputes. If the proposed judge for the District Court of the District Court were the judge of that District Court... Namely, what's this about? The judge who judges by order, according to the directive, by party color, is currently who is stronger and who is weaker in 2000, in agreement with the prosecutor, refuses to report criminal charges, not informing the party in a process that joined the prosecution that he has given up, so the yellow ones acted better and faster instead of being the municipal court's judge, he becomes chief of the impedimentary SUP. Look at the miracles, at the time, that's when the biggest crime in Leskovec, the famous case of Cedic, was committed, where there were seven dead. Although this SUP commander and his current successor, who was in charge, or was a militia commander, received multiple times written and oral calls to intervene, because this gentleman, therefore, I mean the late Cedic, threatened those families. They tried to at least act preventively. After the murder of seven people, our SUP can't find him. There are special forces coming from Belgrade and they don't find him dead, that he committed suicide, but he's found by a man who went to cut off the meadow, so he found him there. There was still messing up whether it was him or not. Twice, the head of SUP, and the current candidate for the District Court judge, told the public – for the first time that no DNA was found, but would be taken samples from the father, and later that it is okay, and now the public opinion of the environment considers that it has been set up. Is it possible that one who so shamefully secures his function as a promotion, is it possible to be the bearer of a judicial function? He was a member of RIK in 2000. Look at the miracles, he's a member of the state commission, when he was elected head of SUP with the current prosecutor, who is better-than-yellow, providing with then-Minister Batic that two, I think of prosecutors, are lustrating, and he's progressing further. Pure rat! And the two deputy prosecutors were just members of the RIK in an extended composition. Could he be the holder of a judicial function in the District Court, which would make a complete collection of these people and prosecutors, who helped them with all of this, faster or better by setting up as Head of the Ministry of Interior in Leskovac, elects him as his assistant. I believe that in the impudent justice system, a lobby that works against the law, works out of partial interests, which only wants to persecute those that the current government wants to prosecute, not those who are real perpetrators of criminal acts. In 2000 and 2001, before the "Sabbe" action, they arrested several impertinent directors, influential and honest people, and among them the director of the pharmaceutical house "Health", who was in custody and tried and convicted and released and charged over 3.5 million in fees because he was convicted and charged only because he belonged to the political option of the SPS at the time. Someone here said that's the only reason we're reacting is because someone was an ex-socialist. I've just been resented, some friends from the DSS, to talk about this just because I'm personally hurt. Ladies and gentlemen, you must always leave from your case. If that justice in Leskovac for five years does not want to solve the subject of the violent arson of the house and to send it from court to court, if this SUP, whose leader is Zoran Stojanovic, does not want to deliver names for three years, and there are cameras and videos of who was doing it – well, am I a citizen of the second order. Because I don't belong in the order of Sonja Biserko, I have to put up with all this. Am I such a masochist to raise my hand in this congregation for such people, so if they do that to me who can say something, what they do to those people who can't say it. Just because it's my case, I can't tolerate this any further. What kind of representative of the work of that people who cannot solve their case – and will solve their cases in this House?- I'm sorry. What are we playing here? Which parliament? What will do the citizens? Since there is no possibility, and last time you took down a candidate for President of the Trade Court in Leskovac, one of the better candidates, there's no way we're taking part in this. You have the majority and I will ask the SPS MP group not to participate in this Farsi election for the District Court judge in Leskovac, and I don't think we want to give legitimacy to such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24554	I thank Mr. Stevanović. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic to prepare for the word Zoran Tanasijević.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the moment Minister Stojkovic came out, and I wanted to ask him a practical question that he probably has an answer to, he remembers, how he was elected, in the 1960s, to a judge at the time of the SFRY. It certainly wasn't through a body called the High Council of Justice, established by the previous DOS government, the then DOS, not this one now, shortened. This set of laws, which is completely, as you have tried to speak, and today, individuals of you, have gone into the affirmation of the Serbian judiciary, which is not true at all, and in its reorganisation, has actually caused many problems. First, when DS personnel, those of Batic's sectarian organisation, the Civil Union and others were housed as presidents and judges in Serbia's courts. Then you went one step further and invented various special courts, such as appeals courts, a trade court, which was then established and replaced by a former commercial court. To this day, nothing has changed in a qualified sense for people and judges to come, and honor for exceptions, of course, that would replace those DS personnel. In a way, people respond to competition, go through or go through the High Council of Justice. Then today we have a situation where one authorised representative says, and a man is otherwise a lawyer by profession, the Justice Committee should have better and faster contact with the High Council of Justice. I also inquired about my colleague Radeta and our MP and the representatives of the other parties, there was only one such consultation meeting, and there was nothing on the Committee to meet as far as the SRS is concerned. Where good luck that the High Council of Justice has never been established and that the choice of judges is not done in such a way. That is why it is our sovereign right, and we are going to do it today during this debate, to challenge individual solutions because we believe that some are not going through needle ears, but that systematically, as our people would say, they are being pushed by certain political structures and certain powers. When it comes to trade courts, they are business lobbys, primarily those who need first to come under the influence of the law and because of the robbery privatisation, and which has been subject not only to the work of the Justice Committee, but also to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privatisation, because workers are sick in the privatisation process and today have no protection, although as individual trade unions, through various associations, especially because of the lack of respect for the social programme, and because of the fact that the workers are so quick to seek legal protection from the competent courts in Serbia, that they try to correct what was happening in the privatisation process, and that is robbery on all sides, violation of the Privatisation Act, such as it is, the presentation of documentation in the design of a project, i.e. prospectus for the privatisation of a single enterprise in a way that it is not only scandalous, but it is against the law of criminal acts. It's just that somewhere, it's not a mistake. It's not a mistake. It's a robbery of state property and, above all, the basic rights of workers. Correct, as was the case with the Kragujeva milkmaker "Youth". That's what I'm saying on purpose because today we have proposals for a number of presidents of trade courts and judges of these courts. Since the owner, i.e. the one who bought the Kragujevac milkmaker "Mladost", does not respect the social programme and, for this reason, only for the third time, terminates the contract on such a criminal and robbery privatisation of the company and does not take into account all the errors committed at the start, above all in determining property-legal relations. Imagine, forgetting the fact that, back in 1954, the City of Kragujevac founded this company, and nowhere was it shown, in the privatisation process, that it was city property?- I'm sorry. It's just one example, and so "the authorities don't get it," to leave the possibility for that same owner, some famous newly-roasted and newly-compromised tycoon, who appeared from New Jersey, I don't know where to manage a panchean milkmaker, which is well known by fellow Jojic, and the shabatian milkmaker, where also huge problems are disproved workers. Will these candidates and these proposals, which came from the High Council of Justice, as well as this way of selecting the holders of judicial functions to correct all these mistakes – not. Because you new candidates and competitions stand every three months, right, and in that order, they come for consideration and before the Parliament for adoption – we challenge them. For some we also have a lot of arguments that they are involved in certain crimes or attempted crimes, and then, they go through the vote and through the agreements of political structures. Most of the MPs who make up this barely-broken coalition and quorum, from two days to today, to begin working, and that's a discussion of how you've established the quorum, that's not interested. And these representatives of the parties and the heads of the parliamentary groups are completely uninformed and ignorant individuals. In particular, one here who did not just grow up and grow up to call but, when his colleague Krasic was talking about it, was not only abused children, in the same way that someone tried to accuse the man who fought bravely for the state and the people and who was an honorable Serb, who came with his three previously extremely smart children at the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic, but those who are not children, but who are not up to it and who apparently have some problem in their brain, who waved those balloons and spread anti-Serbian hysteria on the day when hundreds of thousands of citizens sent Slobodan Milosevic. You are now in a situation where in the Serbian judiciary, such as those in various television shows, which are neither in the hall nor in the hall, hear statements such as: we will affirm the Serbian judiciary, we will do everything possible to make responsible, honorable, honest, highly professional people come to that position. And here, you have Minister Stojkovic's case that the hour in the O.R. is not, that he agrees with it and did not dispute it, he accepted to be a minister under such laws. The High Council of Justice suggests to us the holders of judicial functions and that the government minister, in which he is a special prosecutor (i.e. Verice is said to be) for war crimes, is the unfortunate Vladimir Vukcevic, who threatens the scribes pigeons, who is burdened with catching another Serbian hero as soon as possible and in what way to hand him over to Carli del Ponte. And on the other hand, neither the Ministry of Justice, nor the Republic Government, nor the National Council for Co-operation with the Hague Kazamat, do anything to enable those who are in God's justice there, such as our president, to begin the process for the fourth year, and not to begin after writing those unbulful indictments by the DOS regime, Carla del Ponte, Kandićka and others in 2003. This same Vukcevic deals with issues such as the advance condemnation of all those who are being prosecuted by Carla del Ponte herself, and the state does nothing to provide the elemental possibility and necessary materials and submissions they seek, such as the defence committee of Dr Vojislav Seselj and his legal advisers, people who are just as he is fully prepared to kill all the allegations from the indictment. In the same way that the Prosecutor's Office in The Hague refers to Dr Vojislav Seselj and Serbs who have been there for many years, Vukcevic, including only the Ministry and Minister and Government, without respecting the elemental law, has long been established, and that is both civilization and contemporary legal order – the presummation of the innocence of anyone who is accused, or puts a burden on him. But no, they come out, they show up on TV with their statements with political, of course pointed out connotations, saying that people are guilty, and they haven't started, and there's no indication, as in the case of our president, when they're going to start the process, nor are they given the opportunity to defend themselves. I must warn you that you would be much smarter, both by the Minister and the Republic Government, that the sooner you start to deal with the burning issue of protection of rights, with the creation of elementary conditions that courts in Serbia work more efficiently and professionally, the rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Did you, for one thing, react as a ruling structure, which is not reported today by any of you, which is quite surprising to me, you've been such a big hug when you want to talk about the resolution and your intention to defend Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, so praise this negotiating team, for not asking yourself, at least you who are in the Justice Committee and you are in the ruling structure, whether the state has come forward and whether it has reacted to the removal of Interpol's warrant that existed all these years after the villain Agim Ceku, who is now Prime Minister Shiptarim, etc. Kosovo Government? Did you then wonder, since before that, even before the appointment of the evildoer, Ceku, is a place of Kosovo's so-called. Prime Minister, for escorting you through some mildly opposed political statements, did you ask yourself then because a parallel justice ministry was established that the Shiparis have under Ceku's authority, down here today, as they defend and what rights are the rights of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, everywhere, where they find it extremely difficult to survive in our southern province. Of course not, because if you were wondering now and you knew, and you weren't even asking questions, at least ask one of the leaders of Kosovo Serbs, our colleague Kragovic or MP Peric or people living downstairs. No, you, Mr. Franislav, but Dragutin Peric of the Serbian Radical Party – what are their rights and how are they defended, what court do they turn to to protect their rights?- I'm sorry. Their only option is to have it under the current terror that's being conducted there under the authority of Ceku and Tachi and Haradinaj, the Ship's Court. And you know what it looks like then, and you know how long detentions and the closure of innocent Serbs last? Two, three, five years, who knows how many? They're supposed to be released after that, and they're not convicted, and they're not tried, and people just get hurt. A lot of questions ahead of us, this is just a direct occasion. It's something you have to do by the nature of things, because you've accepted such a way of choosing judges when the High Council of Justice was established and then filled places. But you obviously don't want, I mean both the minister and Kostunica and the entire government, the president of the Democratic Party, and I'm not talking, he doesn't do his constitutional powers, let alone to worry about how protected Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are or whether he has thought of (except where Karadzic and Mladic are located) to protect interests and to enable the defence of Hague prisoners. You don't care what you do and the way you think you're going to present to the citizens that something positive is happening in the area of justice. It is our right and our option (because we are serious and responsible people and wherever we appear, and we don't have as much media space as you, where mostly uninvited as that one ballooner, who isn't here right now, is talking about these things) that we tell the public, but all those who watch this transmission know how persistent we are that immediately after the arrival of Serbian radicals to power things will seriously change in the judiciary, they know that we have these serious arguments. What I said today is just some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24556	I thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The People's Messenger Zoran Tanasijević has the word, but to prepare for the word Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Tanasievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24557	My colleagues and colleagues, I've come forward on a proposal for the President of the Municipal Court in Ljig. My position is principled in nature, that I will always appear to box that the National Assembly declares itself to each candidate, that is to say every member of Parliament. I don't think the methodology of the election is good and it's not good to vote for the whole package, for the simple reason that not all candidates of the same quality, so it happens that some candidate who isn't adequate goes along with a group of good ones. Last time our candidate from the League experienced a fiasco here. He only got one vote. I think it's really good to know what the mood is like in the National Assembly. On the other hand, I think the methodology for data collection by the VSP, and we see that from this report that we've received, is not adequate. Last time I got into the material that they took very seriously into consideration, or accepted and respected the opinions of some sort of bar in Shappac. Since I'm from the League, I really don't know which group of lawyers it is. There's just no such thing in the League. The left-wing poor woman who's filling up a prison in Firevac doesn't have the money to pay you people. Lylic mobsters who enjoy the full protection of those who should simply live in peace and do not need to hire lawyers. This time I see that the Honorable opinion of the municipal court's college in Ljig and Valjev. This is only partially true. I don't rule out the possibility that the VSP got some paper, but the essence of how the whole procedure ran. I received reliable information that a meeting of judges in Ljig was called, that they were told that VSP stands behind this candidate Dragan Radovic and asked them – do you mind? Of course, none of the judges are crazy to stand up, and you know very well that last time only one candidate checked in, the others weren't allowed to run. It's a good move that we've had three candidates this time. We don't have until the end a precise report on how many people have applied. I appreciate that they brought us a candidate here, but it would be quite correct of the VSP to tell us who the other candidates are, that we simply know what the whole procedure is. I'm sorry there aren't any of these decent people here, but I'd like to know if they've asked the numerous victims of the City Court in Liga. I come from a municipality that has the highest citizen turnout in the last five years in all elections. Most people took to the municipal court polls in Ljig, rather than most political parties. I'm not talking about individual examples. You have this at www.lig.co. Yu and other Internet sites, to see what people there are doing and what a googot they've been through over the past few years. I really don't understand why there's not one serious analysis on the ground, but it's data from some phantom colleges. The question is whether or not they met and how they worked, and I said earlier what this particular case is about. I really cannot agree with this proposal, for the simple reason that it is not the result of a serious analysis, of a firm view of the judiciary. We see a very thin biography of candidates here. Practically, it's also in others. My people, even for the president of the local community, we wouldn't get a résumé like this. We only have a date of birth. Does it matter if he's in the shooter, the ram or any other sign, when he graduates from college? I guess it's understood that a man should have a law school, that he's been to some work organizations, etc. It's one practice I can't support from this pay phone, so we're slightly observant and I'd like to ask the VSP to give us one comprehensive piece of information on what these positive features are, which are the results of the candidate's work. I'm interested in what this candidate is going to do to improve the situation at the City Court in Ljig. For this time, while he's in the position of acting, which is about four months, I really haven't gotten the terms. I see it's the political yuppie of the local authorities and they want to mix in this assembly, here to set up their own people. I'll just tell you that during this president, one committee member has been punished by three months in prison, only because of an outspoken opinion at the assembly session; that the president of the municipality has already worked out a method of calling a session – they're making fictitious two, three lawsuits, then three or four council members have to go to trial, he turns on the phone and releases some, and so there's always as many people as it takes to overrule it. That's why I think the VSP got into this story too fast. I think the situation in the City Court in Liga needs to be settled, that all these controversial and difficult cases, that all these victims of lawlessness, which have been terrible in the last few decades, to see what we're going to do with them, how we're going to deal with these accumulated problems. So first we have to have a court, and when we do, then we'll easily choose the president of the court. That's it. I hope that all of you, according to your conscience and on the basis of the information that you have, will make an adequate decision and that you will vote on the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24558	The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic, and let Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reform of the judiciary has been expected, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been very busy in the work over the last few years. However, there is no result in judicial reform. The results in this reform are not relevant and are not achieved when it comes to the choice of judicial officials and judicial authorities. There's insufficient coordination. There is no method built, criteria built for selecting and recalling individual holders of judicial functions. What is characteristic of the last four, five years is evident that our judiciary is quite politicized. We were expecting a depolitanization of the judiciary. However, not much has been done in depoliticisation. There is still a policy in the selection of judicial holders, and in addition, there is still a policy that affects the functioning of judicial authorities and the independence of judicial authorities. What's very negative is that political parties interfere with the choice of judicial holders. Better criteria must be established than they are. The criteria must be more concrete and comprehensive and priced over a longer period of time. In the proposal for decisions to select judicial holders and authorities' elders, they took criteria and criteria for 2002, 2003 and 2004. That's not enough. He had previously objected to my colleague in this direction when he was talking about the choice of legal holders in Ljig. The judiciary is an extremely important institution in one state. The work of the judiciary depends on the security, security and protection of the personal and property rights of our citizens. If we have a sufficient number of judicial officials, I've spoken before. After the adoption of the new legislation, such as the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the Law on the Executive Procedure, the Code on Criminal Procedure, and the Criminal Code, certainly create conditions for the revision of the complete composition of judicial functions holders in the Republic of Serbia. Why? These rules allowed some procedures to be shortened. However, it is not in practice. If you have the Law on a litigation procedure that is now in place, there are certain shortcomings. Some judges make decisions and do not make decisions when they are due to give the parties an answer to the suit. They're delivering somewhere, and they're not delivering somewhere. In some courts, cases are handed down to another judge by the president of the court, but without a solution, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the courts explicitly foresees it. What I want to say, and again point out, is that the choice of legal holders is too serious and too serious to allow individuals to influence or fictitiously deliver to the Ministry of Justice, or to the High Council of Justice, the data of their work results. What are the results of the work in three or four years? They're not visible, they're not measurable, they're not enough for three or four years to be able to assess whether or not it's for that function, especially when it comes to the presidents of the court. When it comes to the election for the presidents of the courts, who was delivering information to the Justice Ministry, or the High Council of Justice? Has the Supervisory Board carried out a review of the court's work, if it was in the previous period, whether it was a re-election or a re-election after five or six years. The role of the Supreme Court, the role of the Ministry of Justice and the role of the Supervisory Board in the Supreme Court – I see that the Ministry of Justice advocates trying to change things, but in practice there are no visible results, to a sufficient extent. Is it because the Ministry, or the Supreme Court, cannot achieve integrity in the insight of the work of each individual and one body, one judicial authority, municipal or county court? I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, that it must be kept in mind when the presidents of the courts are appointed, and also whether there is corruption in the judiciary or if there is no corruption in the judiciary in these courts. If the judicial authorities themselves say that there is corruption in the judiciary, with percentage differences, what does it look like in that direction and whether we will have visible and sufficient results? When it comes to trade courts - they have lost control and I believe that no institution can achieve neither insight nor control, nor in a positive sense change the situation in trade courts, especially when it comes to privatisation, participation, contribution and bankruptcy. Who controls the bankruptcy? How many years does a judge run in a Trade Court bankruptcy? How much is that bankruptcy? How much more bankruptly and did the president of the bankruptcy council award the costs to the bankruptcy directors? How many bankruptcy directors in Serbia run bankruptcy in trade courts and how many years? Some became profiteers and capitalists. What does it look like? Is that judicial corruption? Pure corruption in the judiciary. Take just to exercise control at the Trade Court in Belgrade, how much was the cost of the Jugoscan bankruptcy; how many million dollars cost and how money was eaten during the bankruptcy, what was left of the bankruptcy, what was it when the bankruptcy was opened?- I'm sorry. How are you bankruptcy procedures of water, can husband and husband participate in a bankruptcy council? You shouldn't. Take what Miss Natasa Jovanovic said about dairy and bankruptcy in Serbia. Recently we had a discussion on the Privatisation Committee, five milkers bought a Ljubicic. He bought five milkers through the Privatisation Agency and now we see that he's being protected by the Privatisation Agency! The Privatisation Committee launched the procedure and proposed that all contracts be terminated, for all five dairy farmers. What was he doing? He bought a dairy in Pancheva, among other things, a dairy man in Kragujevac, Nis, Sainta, Šapec. He bought a milkman in Panchev, and he didn't carry out his contractual obligations, so he went straight to Nis. In Nis, he buys a low milker, but he puts a mortgage on it, and the bankruptcy is not completed, nor has the privatisation ended in Panchev. Two hundred fifty thousand dairy workers in Pancheva are on the street. I hear now, although the Privatisation Committee has proposed and reached the conclusion that the contract is going to be terminated, I have information that the Privatisation Agency is behind Mr. Ljubicic and will keep the low and the panchean milkmaker. What's the damage done by the trade courts? At the expense of the workers. The workers were on the street, and the profiteers with the bow and purse flew into the dairy shop, bought, the social programme was not executed, and they were protected by the court, protected by the Agency. Is that how human rights and civil rights are protected in our country? No, and no one can stand in the way of this lawlessness and no one can stand in the way of publicizing, unhappiness, crime and corruption in trade courts. No one in this country. He's got options, and he needs to do it. He doesn't need to be put off. The workers are hungry and their children don't have the bread to eat, and someone's throwing away the capital and property of our citizens. Whether there are violations of the law by judges in practice, when the debate is concluded or the main search is concluded, and when a verdict is reached. Even though Minister Stojkovic pointed out and spoke – we are shortening the proceedings, it was a wish and intention, but in practice, I must say that we have a practice to conclude the debate, and after two years, the verdict is written at the time when we are talking about judicial reform. He can't be any more judges for a day, but please, whether the Supreme Court Board is doing its job, how many people are there, and as far as I can hear, there are five Supreme Court judges. Can five of them get to 140 courts, and with a trade, that's about 150 or 160? Five of them can't. Secondly, when the Assembly will have the opportunity to meet with the data of those judges who do so and with a proposal from a competent institution, for their resolution, for breaking the law, because if the law gives the judge the right and obligation to write a verdict within 8 days, in complex cases for 15 days, is it possible to tolerate him for two years. What do you think, for two years, the judge is having second thoughts about how he's going to settle a dispute with a citizen, so that citizen can exercise his right, imagine, if he was the object of a dispute of two million dinars and he's writing a verdict after two years. That poor guy who's bound to pay damage or debt, he's been tightening his legal interest since the day the prosecutor made the case's demands and put up and asked for it until the day of his payment. This one waited two years, the damage was another two million, the cost went up, the interest was attributed to the principal, and there's nothing more to talk about. What do individual court presidents do to you, how much tourism do they have? Can one counselling at Zlatibor, Kopalnik, Vrnjakska Banja, on Palić go without them and do we have those who travel even around the world? How much does that cost? They should be in court in the morning at eight o'clock, come first and go last. To see what the administrations do to them, do the counters do, do they treat the citizens correctly and legally, do the judges make judgments by the rules of procedure, do they schedule the hearings, do they receive monthly reports from judges, how many cases are in the works, how many cases are solved, how many decisions have been changed, how many confirmed? What's his score, what's the quality of his work? There are extremely good judges who don't need to be told this, because they are efficient and responsible, but this is a message to those who break the law and who are generally tolerated. No tolerance! In my opinion, there is no tolerance here when it comes to human rights, and human rights and reasonable time for one trial and for a decision to be made within a certain time limit. What happened to those who broke the law and abused the position in the "Sabbe" action? What about those twelve and a half thousand citizens who are unfounded and illegally deprived of freedom? Does anyone have a responsibility for that? I still don't have any knowledge that any legal function holder who's been making arrest decisions is about extending detention and listening, even, MPs and journalists, not to speak political inexperiences. They listened to Professor Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic and the others when they wanted to. According to them, the judges in the district courts signed consent and reached a solution to the application of the measure, unlimited, until someone in the police said it was enough. It's a violation of the law. Now let's see if anyone in this country is going to report to Parliament or to the Security and Defence Committee to say -- in the "Sabbe" action, there have been so many solutions to apply the listening, monitoring and recording measures, as long as the measure lasted, which of the judges has signed and at whose request. Was there a request or not, were the requests reasoned or not? If it was prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure in four cases where these measures could be applied, what were the results? Were these requests established or not? Where there was no request, she lay there, still lies today abuse, abuse of authority. Something about a relationship between law enforcement and justice. I can tell you there's room for certain objections and criticism to be directed here. You have some courts where certain lawyers, as average or below average, have a ten-fold greater pass and success in exercising some rights for their clients than the best lawyers in the country, than the people whose profession is 30, 40 years old. You have a situation like this: the prosecutor filed a lawsuit through the attorney's office, in a lawsuit saying that he had built a house here and there, on that plot, that the defendant, the man who, before he died, had sold the house to him on the payroll without having previously delivered a copy of the land book or proof that the house was made. The house didn't even exist until he filed a lawsuit. When he filed a lawsuit, he had a successful lawyer, he had a good cooperative with the judge. The judge is making a verdict based on the absence or making a verdict based on recognition, and it is state property. That verdict is carried out in the land book. This acquires the right of ownership of state property properties, saying it is the building of the facility by means of its own means, by working on other people's land. If we take one garland now, I won't even mention the court, in 10 years, you know, how many would we find a conviction for two, three lawyers based on a confession, based on maintenance, based on denial and settlement. What's the problem here now? It is now a delicate question to determine whether the judge is corrupt or not. I'm not going to argue, but it's possible for several lawyers in one court to have 30% of those convictions, with 150 lawyers in it, and they don't have 1%. I don't want to owe more, but I would just like to point out that he would have one serious objection to the election and to the candidate's proposal, when it comes to Jovic Radisa, for the president of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to the public in this area that Jovic Radisa was the president of the Court of Justice in Kursumlia, that he was at the same time president of the municipality court department in Podujevo since 1991. At the end of 1998, I visited the court and found 1,200 cases of outdated, unsolved cases, which were in charge of Mr. Radisa Jovic. Is it possible that you're proposing a man today, now you're rewarding him?- I'm sorry. I do not believe that this assembly will be deafened, but it is not possible for such a man to be entrusted to a serious judicial authority, and that he did so and worked in that court before being replaced in 2001. I got an anonymous performance, one letter, signed, community court workers in Kursumlia: "Aman, people, don't put a bell on a dirty sheep." That's what it says in that letter. It says here that he beat up a court worker and that he was responsible for it. Is that true, I don't know, but that's what it says here. As a judge, right now, he says, he has the most complaints and complaints about his work. Is there or isn't, has anyone checked it out, is it true he had so many out-of-date cases and it's against Shiptara? Two thousand cases depreciated against Shipara, because the Department of the Municipality Court of Podujevo was attached to the Municipal Court in Kursumlia?- I'm sorry. Is that possible? Can we talk about judicial reform, can we say that there is no corruption, can we say that it will be an impartial judiciary, can we be satisfied and choose the best?- I'm sorry. There are good judges there, therefore, to choose those who do not work like this. It's said here that he doesn't contact or talk to his colleagues at all. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, here's his score, here's a nice one here, some of the statistics, although it's a joke: he had 213 cases in 2003, he didn't solve, or he didn't solve 108, there's no basic results. And what's his verdict? The decisions he made: of the 16 decisions, he was abolished 12. There's this expert, what he's telling you. So, for the President of the Court, one who can have one percent or no percent should come, that his decisions are lifted, that his decisions are confirmed. Therefore, the SRS believes that there are good judges for presidents, that there are good candidates for judges and prosecutors and good ones to be elected, should be supported and rewarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24560	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and let the Verse of Rade be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24561	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there aren't any of these from European Serbia, they were half a minute today, so they left, I had something to tell them. I volunteered to speak on behalf of those who no one has mentioned here, since the wrong impression can be obtained, because it is so commercially regulated that the candidates for the presidents of the courts and judges, both of them and other courts, depends on which one we choose, so we only mention the ones we dispute. I would like to say, however, that the fastest word in Serbia is the thief and the gun. It's not good for both of us. In courts, people who, by definition, do very delicate and troublesome work work work work. Anyone who's in court is always, at the beginning, claiming to be right. In the hands of these people, there is a great responsibility, to the extent that it is possible, in accordance with the law to fight for justice, and thus our responsibility is greater that by our vote, and that is the constitutional obligation of the MPs and the National Assembly, we give trust and that responsibility to people who, as it is said, will share justice. Since I live in a city where there are, which is retired, which is active, about 150 judges, I just called to say that I have a great respect for that profession. It's one of those jobs that's almost bordering on the mission, that anyone who thinks these people, who do it or those who need to do it, don't do it in accordance with the law, should answer. You, Mr. Minister, I ask and direct, you in your ministry have the right to control, you have a reputation that seems to me to be in favour of you starting to bring order along with those who do this work. So as not to confuse the public, as the largest number of doctors in Serbia are said to be corrupt, Serbia's largest number of judges are said to be corrupt. That's not true. It's a dangerous claim, and if that were true, then we'd be living in chaos and anarchy. On behalf of our parliamentary club, Dr. Zarko Obradovic challenged one president of the court, a candidate for the president of the court, and it seems to me three candidates for judges and to the extent that you, respected colleagues, assess whether that is so or not, they will be or will not be elected. But since we often choose judges at such sessions and one of the most sensitive jobs that we do here, because it's not the same as when you don't vote for one or another amendment, then it would be important that each of us to the extent that this profession can help get that place in the society that belongs to it, because, when you go to court, in any capacity, as accused, as a witness, or as someone who sues, we have a feeling there that's like when you go to church or somewhere else. So, people should be given and allowed to do this honorable work in a dignified way and that a large number of candidates today don't get the impression that we're only talking about those candidates we're challenging and those we're not challenging, we're thinking the same thing. That impression would be wrong basically, and those people, of course, didn't deserve it. That was my idea. In the end, I want to say that we from the previous period, I mean precisely the one when the minister of justice was Mr. Vladan Batic, inherited a particocratic system where, as you know, in a few months, a practically altered complete structure in the prosecutions and courts in Serbia. It is often done without criteria and I must say most often without criteria, and it is hard for us now to choose judges and presidents of courts, professional, competent and responsible people, to give them the responsibility they draw from the Constitution, the law, and to believe that they will do so in the best possible way. If that faith did not exist, then one might be made to take justice into his own hands. That's not good, that impression would be wrong, and I don't think any of us want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24562	The People's Messenger, Verica Radeta, has the word, and let Peter Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24563	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing six decisions, namely six proposals from the High Council of Justice, where after this debate in the voting day, if you accidentally provide a quorum, after two days to start work, to ensure that you decide and choose, it seems to me, 10 or 12 of the presidents of municipal and county courts and 30 judges in Serbia's courts. Today, we don't have a Supreme Court president here, the minister in address, in two sentences, said there's not much to tell us, except to fill these places and now we'd have to conclude that there's no problem in Serbia's judiciary. Unfortunately, it's not like that. There are terrible and terrible problems in Serbia's judiciary, and we in this House need to talk. It is really interesting how many other parliamentary groups are not interested in this important segment. We in the SRS are mostly talking about concrete proposals and concrete examples, and we are trying to help both the Minister and the President of the Supreme Court solve this problem, i.e. bring the judiciary to one level which would mean both the existence of the rule of law and the introduction of legalism, in which some swear. You know, as long as our judiciary is as lenient as it is, there's nothing from the rule of law, there's nothing legal. I would like to address the minister with some concrete and questions and requests for certain comments. During last week or richly a day or two ago, you, Minister, on a TV show, seemed to me in your day of communication with citizens, commended the law on executive proceedings – that is fine, and how it is, what Krasic adds, super law. You said that law already yields excellent results. I wrote this when you were talking, and I quote exactly what you said. Now, I'm asking you, Minister, when you claimed that this law gives excellent results, did you perhaps think about the executive solutions of about 200 former men working for Cementara Popovac, who can't get their money, have strong convictions, have executive solutions? When I was almost there, these people gathered to ask me if I could ask the Minister and the President of the Supreme Court and the executive court, which is controversial, which is why they can't get the money. They voiced their suspicions, they say, perhaps we can't get our money because the "Popovac" Cementar is visited by Ruzica Djindjic every month. They say, I guess a woman is coming to get some of her money from that cement store. They say, too, that two or three months ago Boris Tadic came with her. I didn't see him, and the people in Paracino who have those executive solutions claim it. Now, in what connection is Janjusevic, Kolesar, Ruzica Djindjic, Tadic, Zoran Djindjic, I really expect from the authorities of the judiciary, above all, as something has already started to happen about Janjusevic and some malversions in Cementara "Popovac". I ask you, Minister, to publicly apply this Executive Procedure Act to check what is the case with these two hundred executive solutions of former workers from Cementara Popovac. In particular, Minister, when it comes to terminating the warrant for Agim Ceku. Both you and some other representatives of the government and, I think, Mrs. Raskovic-Ivić, I don't know, and, uh, you've been feeling a little embarrassed and disgusted when you heard on TV that an APB was lifted against Agim Ceku, and I'm asking if the state of Serbia has specifically filed a complaint on behalf of the Serbian state. You're right about that, you know that. Is the appeal filed, when it was invested, who invested, and if it wasn't, and does that mean that the Serbian government knew about this and that it was okay with this?- I'm sorry. The next particular question, you appeared the same, and you know, I have to use what I read and listen to in the media because thanks to the congregation's majority this parliament has not worked for four months and then I have to communicate in this way and not be misread. Otherwise, I follow the media, it's my job among other things. The particular question is, what about the responsibility of certain people, certain judges of the Supreme Court, or already who it is, and it's about those three Shipars who have left prison because of someone's impunity, negligence or corruption, and I ask you to tell us what these three are, because the Supreme Court's verdict has not arrived in due time and who, meanwhile, fled between their Cypriots to Serbian Kosovo and Metohija, of course. So the particular question is, who's responsible and in what way, is he responsible just because he's unsupervised, which is sloppy or he's got money to do it? Also, a question for you, Minister, according to the information I have last week, it seems to me, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you chose judges for violations. Certain people who, in time, Batić, and I told you several times about it, resolved those functions because, as he claimed, they applied the law, imagine sin. And I asked you, and you promised that you would certainly correct that injustice, in fact, that you would follow the Supreme Court's decision, because these people have Supreme Court decisions that they should return to the case of judges for violations. In certain cases in this last election, although they applied to remind you of that obligation, you did not select them, but you chose various professional associates. Of course, to open the way for them tomorrow when it's that big contest and when we translate the judges for violations from the law enforcement authority into the courts for offenses, then they have an open way to appear, God, as judges with experience. A concrete objection to the proposals of these decisions, in addition to what my colleagues said, is the trade court in Kragujevac. I challenge Mrs. Marijana Djordjevic as a candidate, because it is obvious that this woman is trying to push someone under the grain, because she is on several occasions in a court where she works trying to make a positive opinion of her colleagues and it has not worked so far. Even this time when this was proposed, it didn't work. So it's symptomatic of us, and for that reason I'm contesting it. Now something specific about the Sheepman. Coli Krasic spoke, and I will also repeat that as a graduate lawyer, I know that he can't and should not be commented, but if any "candidians" and that one of yours from the special prosecutor's office and that Vukcevic, which catches the scribes of pigeons, and that spokesman Bruno Vekarić, etc., so if they can talk about the money they got from someone, then I can, of course, do it for the sake of justice and on behalf of my president, the president of the SRS, who is in The Hague. The verdict at The Sheepchare was ordered precisely for The Hague and Vojislav Seselj. I don't want to say what I'm going to talk about today about "the Sheepdogs" and this verdict, by no means, to influence the judges who are going to be debated in the Supreme Court by the appeal of these people who are sentenced by a first-degree verdict, but I have to admit that I would like to hear what Krasic was saying and to hear what I'm going to tell them. So, I repeat, the sentence for the Shepherd. Before, or as soon as this procedure was initiated, as soon as the charges were filed, we all knew what the outcome was, we all knew what the verdict would be, we all knew that the "sheep" trial balloon that Carla del Ponte pushed you, and that you had to be the authority and your judges to show yourself and do the job exactly as you were ordered. Although it is the judiciary, you will now likely comment that the executive authority does not affect the judiciary are, of course, in this case stories for small children, you know that well. You know exactly what they mean and who the judges and prosecutors and this Special Prosecutor's Office and this War Crimes Department are, as well as the one for fighting organized crime. We all know, and we talked about when those departments were formed, we said they were people who betray their colleagues and sell themselves for three times the salary, it's the first tranche, and later on, as much as Natasa Kandic makes, they make so many decisions, of course. And this "sheep" is in many ways, unfortunately, the painted UN tribunal. And during the alleged crime proceedings in Ovcara, it happened that participants in the process or that one of the participants died, just as in The Hague, we have witnessed six killings of six Serbs, the last murder of Slobodan Milosevic, which also was not taken by the state of Serbia, or by the authorities. The first day it was announced on the news that Slobodan Milosevic died, or that he was killed in The Hague, all of you, even Boris Tadic, ran to say that The Hague tribunal was responsible for the death of Slobodan Milosevic, and then when you got it on your fingers, you all withdrew and did what you did about the funeral, etc., but it is not a topic, there will probably be an opportunity to talk about it. Furthermore, during the study of witnesses and accused in the Ovcar case, there are statements of honorable people who claim to have been extorted, that they were offered witness status, name and last name, who are the people. Of course, they didn't accept it, which is why Bora and the other one, Petkovic, the ones who really bloodied their hands on Ovcari, and that's what Natasa Kandic and the others who represented these so-called. damaged, as they represented themselves here. Krasic also mentioned the health status of some indictees and later accused in the first-degree verdict on "Ovcara". Imagine that in the case files there are discharges from the Military Academy for some people and that this court council did not consider it. In essence, this procedure for "Ovcaru" was conducted by Serbian lawyer scum, it is those who sold their soul to the devil, it is Natasa Kandic, she is the fool Todorovic, that is Nikola Barovic, that is Rajko Danilovic, known to all of you that he was representing Vuk Draskovic in time when Vuk sued Zoran Djindjic for trying to kill him at the Ibari master's office, and today he is a lawyer for the Djindjic family. So much for that man's morale. What's interesting is that when you look at the case file, or I'm talking about what's available to the public, because I know that a lot of material is about "Ovcara" has been declared official secret and I strictly take care of it and I don't mention what the official secret is, so I'm talking about what everyone who was interested in hearing, although I don't see why the "Ovcara" has not been transferred as well as the Hague tribunal, so to see what they say and how they represent the state of Serbia, and who represents the state of Croatia in front of Serbian courts. It is interesting, therefore, that the witnesses brought by these lawyers that I mentioned, mostly people living in Croatia, Croats, that none of them asked for, on the question of the President of the Court, compensation for coming. Completely logically, witnesses who came from Novi Sad to Belgrade or Belgrade to Novi Sad depend on where he was led which part of the process, completely normal and logically asked for cost compensation. These came from Zagreb, and they don't need expenses. Are you, fellow Members of the Parliament, and are you, the respected citizens of Serbia who listen to this and are you gentlemen, from the Supreme Court, who will debate and decide by the complaints of the people who are accused and who rot in prison, the two are also dying, and are still being held in prison, i.e. in custody, still given that there is no judicial verdict, does that fact tell you anything? I think every reasonable person says too much. What was the conclusion of this court council based on? On the false and ordered testimony of Jovan Dulovic. Imagine, which is the moral gromada Jovan Dulovic. He's, of course, a Ustasha named John, very interesting. That man was as a witness, he had no witness to what to say, and he couldn't, as a witness, accuse any of those he intended to accuse, imagine, allow himself to conclude. He heard that Vojislav Seselj was at a rally in Vukovar and, of course, it was not a dispute, and he says – Vojislav Seselj said in Vukovar at the rally that volunteers of the Serbian Radical Party must fight under the command of the then JNA. He says he heard that Vojislav Seselj said that volunteers should not rob, cannot steal, must not abuse prisoners, must not touch civilians, etc., and says – I have heard it all and it is all true, but I conclude that Vojislav Seselj did not mean it, it was not his intention. And such an unsuspecting statement takes the court council as credible and it is their main backbone for the verdict and, of course, protected witnesses of "Bloody" Bora, the nickname tells them enough what kind of man it is. So, all this I said really goes in favor of the claim that the Sheepman was ordered, that a parallel procedure with The Hague tribunal, that through the Ovcaru, volunteers of the SRS should be brought into contact with a possible crime so that it could be put on the soul of Vojislav Seselj. Of course, none of the slightest evidence that would be anywhere near it exists in the files of this case, and the files are on 4,870 pages. Of course, this process will continue as will continue before The Hague tribunal, at the request of our president, Vojislav Seselj, for the replacement of Hans Holcius, for the replacement of that doctor, and for one and the other, and for the council that tried in The Hague proceedings against Slobodan Milosevic, all because they were responsible for the death of Slobodan Milosevic. So something that everyone in Serbia agreed to on the first day that Milosevic died, or was killed in The Hague. It will also continue the process in The Hague and related to the disclosure of the letter left by Milan Babic, who claims in that letter that he was being blackmailed, that he was forced to lie to his Serbian people, that he regretted and did not endure, his conscience worked, for some, though, late, but what happened happened. So, all these proceedings will continue, but the case against Vojislav Seselj does not begin! Of course, after his brilliant testimony in The Hague trial against Slobodan Milosevic, those there without, inquisitors, Hague villains do not dare to start the trial, although it is already, behold, the fourth year that on the basis of the completely hollow and unargumented indictment Vojislav Seselj is in custody in Sheveningen. There's no Mrs. Vide Shkero here today. Zoran Krasic spoke of Sam Nazar, who dictated the verdict for "Ovcara". When, last time Mrs. Vida Shkero sat here, she mentioned Alexander Vukic, she said she heard about this man for the first time. She'll be the next time she comes to tell us what she knows about his appearance in the judiciary. Of course, there is none, and there is no answer to the Serbian radicals, it promised the last time she was here, what about our initiative to resolve Judge Danko Lausevic, who was financed by Cane Subotic and his lawyer, Vlad Pavicevic. So, ladies and gentlemen, there are many questions without answers, there are many problems in the Serbian judiciary. I just want to point out that we know that in the Serbian judiciary there are many more honorable and honest judges who do their job in accordance with the law and in accordance with judicial certainty, exactly as they should do, but those who have so much less influence that they are able, as you can see, even through certain verdicts to assist the UN tribunal, of course, in a negative sense. Who here are doing all the things you have heard from my colleagues who have spoken about concrete examples, who are able to protect Ruzica Djindjic and Boris Tadic when it comes to the privatisation of Popovac and 200 people who have lost the money they have according to a judicial and executive verdict. So, a lot of problems, a little interest in solving these problems. Of course, the Serbian government has an obstacle to problems -- to see how it somehow decides most people to go through this session, and the question is what they're going to do next, and it would be better if they came to their senses that it's high time they resigned and that these serious state affairs go ahead with people who are really willing to take over not only power, but also responsibility for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24564	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24565	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have on the agenda a selection of judicial officials. I expect that it is only a fraction of what this National Assembly has done and what it will only do to have, in the near future, a successful, good and effective judiciary. Justice is sometimes, especially according to that saying, slow, but justice is available. The sooner we create an effective judiciary, the sooner and the sooner we'll all be satisfied with the justice we have. At this point, as we know, we're choosing 50 holders of judicial functions. Today, at the end of this debate, we can say that there have been different opinions, that fellow MPs with full right and praised and challenged, highlighted advantages and flaws. However, they spoke much more about the judiciary in general or about socio-political relations in the judiciary and society than about the choice of judges. The choice of judges, like the act we're going to do tomorrow, is just one moment, just one piece of work to create a successful, independent, effective judiciary. The adoption of material, procedural laws and rules, as far as possible, the choice of legal holders is only one part that has created preconditions for one process that will take place in the next period, hopefully as short as possible, and that period will last, because the judiciary that has been violated for decades, the political, measured by the arches of politics, is impossible overnight, to create it better in one day, or create it independent, efficient, one word just. It is necessary, as I said, that today only on one small task, that we choose a part of these holders of judicial functions (Judge, President of the Court). Like I said, and criticism, if they're well-intentioned, they're allowed. It's only dangerous if we want to, and I have the impression that many people want to, and they've been doing it for years, that we're personally affecting the choice of judges, or what's rightly mentioned here, that we're personally assessing the decisions of the courts. And even some who, in their words alone, are fighting for democracy or the rule of law, allow themselves to be completely against the law, in any case unlawfully, assess any first-degree decision, whether the actions of the holders of judicial functions, such as prosecutors, investigative judges or judges, which, as you know, is totally inadmissible and against the law. In this way, the court is not promoted, nor is that verbal declaration to an independent court being promoted, nor is it facilitated by its position. Choosing a good judge is very difficult. However, it is obvious that both this parliament and the SSP proposals are progressing. Although, gradually, but progressing, for the simple reason why today what I have heard and what we know from the previous statements or from the presentation of fellow Members, today is much less disputed judges than before, which means that some process has progressed, some decision-making process for selecting adequate people as bearers of judicial functions. In this respect, I sincerely hope that all together, especially with adequate and quality VSP proposals, at one point we will create one better and more efficient judiciary, and all results, as the Justice Minister, Mr Stojkovic, has on several occasions, indicated that, compared to the past and the previous year, the judiciary has made significant progress. Normally, with efficiency there will be improvements in work, in terms of quality of work, but it will be evaluated, as I said, by the courts, or the last instance in the judicial system. It is inadmissible that assessments of the performance, failure, individual judgments or proceedings in any court proceedings give and amounts to individuals and media who do not have the right to do so under the law. There have been disputes here today, especially by MPs from Leskovec, and I am obliged to say it. It is entirely the right of MPs to challenge the choice of District Court judges, to present their opinion, to call on evidence or assumptions, however, I am obliged after 15 years of working in the bar, to know all the judges in Leskovec, and beyond Leskovec, to Mr Stojanovic Zoran, I could say that it is a quality proposal, that he was a secure judge and that he had no spot in his former career as a judge, and also that he had no stain in his career when he worked at the Interior Ministry. I'd be biased if I were to go further with some attitudes that, according to my assessment, there was no place to carry out, and the controversy wouldn't be successful because everyone is at least partially, and here are the criticisms, you evaluate it yourself, yet motivated personally. I would add that for years the judiciary in this country was tried to be established on the principles of dependence on politics and government, so we had self-government courts. With this and today's election, we are definitely leaving self-government courts, where, with the supposed call on the people, political decisions are made, and we are creating opportunities for further development of the judiciary, further reform of the judiciary, effective courts and the best people. The DSS will challenge only one proposal at this time and this proposal for the Belgrade District Court, Mr. Aleksandar Ivanovic, for only party reasons, in the sense that it is party-specific. We don't know if he's a member of the party, it's the right of every individual, however, by acting the judges must be deprived of party colour. Therefore, in addition to the dispute, I call on you not to accept Mr. Zoran Stojanovic's opposition, as well as any dispute against the candidate for the President of the Court of Justice in Bujanovac, because it is a single structure; against this candidate the procedure has been initiated, the procedure has been suspended, but it is taken as evil because of the conduct of the proceedings. It's a normal letter, and, in democracy, rightly, in justice, someone who, not that it's not a closed procedure, but is not in any way punished or convicted cannot be guilty because of the procedure being staged. So it can't be this candidate's fault. This candidate deserves to be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24566	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let Miljko Četrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24567	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, no matter how hard the ruling majority is trying to convince us that the situation in the Serbian judiciary is better, acknowledging that it is still difficult and that they have certain problems, the fact is that the Serbian judiciary is in much worse shape than before 5 October. We have an example of the municipality court in Pogorevec, which was considered the first 20 municipal courts in Serbia before 5 October. With the election of a certain court president who was the candidate of the then Democratic Opposition of Serbia, the municipal court in Pozarevec is now at 120th and some place. This is the result of October 5th, as well as the law on the election and resolution of judges, which shows us that it is first difficult for a good candidate to come to be discussed and voted in the Assembly, according to various lobbys, factions and everything else, and which shows us how difficult it is for a poor candidate, or president or judge, to resolve these functions. That's how it gives us an example and one of the sessions where many candidates for judges and court presidents are simply rejected by this assembly. Imagine, then, who from the High Council of Justice dared to attack the Republika Srpska Assembly. Lawyer's chamber! No one attacked from the judiciary or the prosecution, but the Bar Association accused the MPs of not voting on their conscience, but on political definition. You see what the problem is that even a quality candidate accepts to be a potential candidate and enters a competition. That's the problem now when it comes to judicial reform, because even if there is a good will, if there is a tenacity that the situation in the judiciary is being settled, simply, the system does not allow. It does not allow because MPs can only put forward a proposal from the High Council of Justice and have no right, as if they were incompetent, as if our Assembly committees were unable to choose ourselves a candidate who could do the job in a quality way, all under the pretext of depolitisation. Those who allegedly advocate depoliticisation are just present in the same bar. I gave this example from the Fireman, and this candidate from the Fireman has passed the High Council of Justice at the last session, as it is from 20 to 120 and some place, and then someone tells me that the High Council of Justice is a high-quality candidate. I wouldn't agree with that, even when the current candidate for the President of the Municipal Court is at stake. He currently performs his duty or is appointed as the President of the Municipal Court, in the district court in Pozarevec, Žabari. I have not noticed that the court has made progress since Mr Vujos Tosic was elected president. I didn't notice that he was making any progress, nor when he was appointed as acting president of that court. The court is stagnating, unable to boast of efficiency in its work. It's just that he's in a certain situation, the way he is. The explanation is that, and apparently there are a number of judges on sick leave. Ask the Ministry to approve a few more judges or ask the District Court for help when it comes to judges. Nothing on this issue is done, and he is, the same Municipal Court rejects complaints from certain political parties that were fully founded in the 2004 elections, local ones, so it can be said that he is also politicised in a certain way. One such president of the court who has not significantly changed the rador where he performs his duties is transferred to an even more important court in the district's headquarters, a court that is extremely problematic. Why? To remain the same condition as it is now, out of fear that such a condition will no longer be broken if possible. From all this, I challenge Mr Vujos Tosic as a candidate for the President of the Municipal Court in Pogorevec. The lack of a judge's proposal alone does not allow this assembly to have persons interested in competing, as people give up their competitions in advance to various judicial functions because they do not have or know that they will not have the support or judicial authorities or the prosecution, or the bar. To make things worse, we have here two candidates for judges from the Trade Court in Pogorevec and a candidate for the municipal judge at the Municipal Court in Pogorevec. Should it be said that these candidates have barely fulfilled the legal basis to be candidates for a judge? I challenge Jasmina Kuzmić, who is a candidate for the municipal court judge in Pozarevec and Radmila Radisavljevic, a candidate for a judge at the Trade Court in Pozarevec, because I know that there are even more professional associates in the Municipal Court who are certainly more responsible for the proposals of the High Council of Justice and who have applied for these functions, but have simply not been in any lobby, so they could not have been proposed to this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24568	The word has a folk MP, Miljko Četrovic, and let Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24569	Dear People's MPs, here, this is the first day of the regular session, although it is the end of March, and we should have started on March 1st. Unfortunately, today, the president of the National Assembly does not have time to chair this session, although we are talking about the situation in the judiciary, and on the agenda is a proposal for a decision on the election of the president of judges and judges. The president of the National Assembly did not allow and did not respect the Rules of Procedure, because he himself proposed to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the MPs and citizens of Serbia would have the opportunity to have the entire government, headed by the Prime Minister and all ministers, sit in this first row and to take account of their work, the work of the entire government and relevant ministries. That is why, as MPs, given that the President of the National Assembly has not respected the Rules of Procedure and that two years have passed since the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the government has praised itself by celebrating two years of its work, and that MPs have not been given the opportunity to assess the work of the government or the ministries. That is why we are also taking this opportunity today to, through a proposal for a decision to elect the president of municipal courts, district courts, the president of trade courts, the choice of judges, and to talk about the state of justice. It's a saying that justice is slow, but it's reaching, unfortunately, for most citizens who do not have to seek justice or respect for the law before extraordinary courts, they can't do it, because justice is unattainable for them as a rule. At best, extremely slow and that justice has been waiting for years. The minister left, and I wanted to ask him a question in mind and those statements when he was on his official trip to Greece, does he have the Co-President's Ministry or the Commissioner, as she was the transitional government, when Minister Dinkic, in the absence of Minister Stojkovic, with Agriculture Minister Dulic-Markovic, also demanded at the cabinet's session the re-election of all judges? Whether the other ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia function this way, with the commissioners, believing that other ministries are functioning, which are in some way both the case and the jurisdiction of the courts, beginning with the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, the Ministry of Capital Investments and other ministries, I would not gain such an impression, as these ministries are purely party and closed as feuds. Laws that have been passed to make the judiciary more effective, that justice is swift and accessible, in the interests of citizens, in the interests of the state, unfortunately did not contribute. This says that passing the law does not mean that the law and enforcement, as well as many laws passed in the previous year, are not being implemented, in the end, by a single law in Serbia, and as a consequence we have corruption and crime, and this corruption and crime is also being seen in the functioning of the judiciary. I won't, and I don't want it as a man, and by profession as a graduate lawyer, to lay down a good deal of judicial duties holders. I believe that they make their call to the judges with dignity, expertise, but unfortunately, many who have led the courts, and also those who have been elected in the past few months, although the re-election of judicial holders was required, primarily the President of the Court to prepare before the term of office of the President of the Court, that we do not have in the Serbian judiciary v.d. A condition that lasts for months, and now it'll be almost a year. And today, what we hear is good, which is repeating what we had at some previous sessions, was a disputed good part of the proposal for the presidents of the courts and for the election of judges, I cannot be satisfied with these who are directly responsible and competent to propose to the presidents of the courts and judges, who are to be elected at the National Assembly session, the High Council of Justice, headed by the Supreme Court President, Mrs Shkero; who did not find fit to be at this session today after 1400 hours, because not the MPs, especially the SRS, which was not quorum at 10.00 and 11.00 hours, so this session had to start at 1400 hours. The criteria and criteria, which have been given in some way by the High Judicial Council for proposing candidates, do not justify challenging any of these candidates who have been challenged today. Unfortunately, in earlier proposals, which were on the agenda of the National Assembly, I have reasonedly challenged the proposal for the President of the Trade Court in the Kingdom. It is well known to the minister, since he was also in Oversight in that trade court last spring, that there were arguments, facts, material evidence that the then president of the court was resolved without pending proceedings for his re-election or re-election. Now I must again present to Minister Stojkovic only one example of Elektron Kraljevo, a company that was privatized through auction. The contract with severe torture was broken, in fact not broken by the Committee's guilt, or the Agency for Privatisation, but it remained 12 out of 115 workers, and on the basis of fictitious documents through the Royal Trade Court, on the basis of a credible document for 11 and a half million from the Municipal Court, or submitted a proposal for execution, to sell the entire immovable property "Electron". Unfortunately, two sales were called and there had to be intervention from the workers of Elektron, those 12 who remained to be led at work and those so-called "Electron". minority shareholders who have been expelled from Elektron in various ways to gather in front of the Municipal Court and in some way try to prevent them from selling. That didn't help either, so it had to be an intervention through the privatisation director, Djordjevic, and the fax had to be sent in order not to sell the entire estate of this company for 11.5 million. There, Minister, why is such a situation in the Chamber of Commerce in the King, why there have been bankruptcy proceedings for years, in particular, the case of "Cablara". Whether these are the procedures that should only destroy the assets of the companies that are in bankruptcy, to appear as vultures as bankruptcy managers, and as a rule are bankruptcy managers for several companies in bankruptcy, that, in that part, the sale, or destruction of property, which workers have acquired for decades, also participate in the bankruptcy of the Trade Court in the Kingdom. The bankruptcy managers are, as a rule, from certain parties to authorities and they are practically the first to sell off movable assets, when there is no possibility that the cost of bankruptcy, their compensation, for allegedly introducing these bankruptcy proceedings, for the craftsmen and other costs, then the sale of immovable property begins. I would also ask the minister, since he is a member of the High Council of Justice, that they still have an untouchable President of the Trade Court in Belgrade. According to the press, and from the experience of many in the City of Belgrade, and the City of Belgrade covers a large area outside Belgrade, half of the proceedings in matters of economic disputes, not to mention bankruptcy, are in fact half of Serbia, Mr Kljajevic, the President of the Trade Court is untouchable, although a decision on the detention of certain judges is made, that it is corruption and crime in that court. On behalf of or as a member of the Committee on Finance, in addition to bankruptcy proceedings which are delayed and in this trade court, I have requested a report on the conduct of bankruptcy over these four large banks. It is the fifth year that a bankruptcy procedure has been launched against the four banks in Serbia. To this day, in fact, nothing has been done. It is a huge property when it comes to immovable property, that I am not talking about a moving asset that has been sold out and that the inn of tens of thousands of square meters of business space across Serbia in the best locations begins from the City of Belgrade and across Serbia. Unfortunately, 8,000 workers are out of work according to a report that we received as members of the Finance Committee, 600 and some workers are working in these bankruptcy proceedings. Direct management or management of the bankruptcy property is carried out by the Bank's bankruptcy agency, but Mr Dinkic did not come for a session of the Committee when the report was to be discussed, although he was invited. Could it continue to be tolerated that workers from these banks after four, and now for the fifth year, they have not even received the severance of those who retired before the bankruptcy of these banks, although reportedly implemented a programme in the recovery of those four banks, workers did not get part of the profits, and they were not paid for December 2001. Is it possible to talk about the functioning of the legal system, courts and, in particular, the Belgrade Commercial Court? I do not wish to challenge today any of the proposed candidates, given what happened with the challenge of the candidate for the President of the Trade Court in the Kingdom, that the MP group of the DSS, or their MP, who is a member of the Committee on Justice, has challenged the candidate. I got the impression, as a national MP, that when the candidates were proposed, especially for the presidents of the courts, there was still a staff combination, staff contracts, inter-party contracts, especially between parties in power. There it is traded, and the result of these trades is a proposal from a candidate who confirms what happened to the Trade Court in the King. I wouldn't want it to go on like that. If we want, as it is constantly formally stated, that the Serbian judiciary is independent and independent, then the motion for candidates to elect judges, and especially for the election of the president of the courts, should indeed be so, and should be, that the parties do not define and participate in such a way as they have so far participated in proposing candidates for both judges and particularly for the presidents of the courts. That's why we have this kind of situation in courts, and still lack of urgency, irresponsibility, corruption and crime. The responsibility for crime is in fact at the prosecution, in courts, in Serbia's MUP; whether we will continue to watch Gilas, Velimir Ilic entertain Serbian citizens in allegedly direct duels, the one representing the president of the Republic of Serbia, or the National Office or the Minister of Capital Investment, that they prove for an hour and a half in a direct duel who is a bigger thief than the two. Is it possible, will we continue to read how someone is saying, in this yellow press, how the wagons from Slovenia, the locomotives from Sweden or Finland, I don't know everything from where, like, some of the people directly in the government or related to the government have abused or committed certain crimes, and in return we don't have an adequate response from the relevant authorities. There must be a response from the MUP, the D.A.'s office, and in the extreme case, if the court needs to. Unfortunately, for many of these so-called affairs, and not affairs, but crime, we haven't had an answer in years. I expect that in the next period, however, Serbian citizens will get an answer. The answer will be to the extraordinary parliamentary elections, the choice of one responsible government, responsible people, who will comply with the laws they have passed and that justice will rule in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24570	Mr. Krasic, he's not here. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, does the proposing representative want the final word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24571	After the discussion I heard, I have to thank myself, because I see that there were not so many ugly words that could have been heard earlier about candidates' personalities, there were more objections to the situation in the judiciary. I just want to say a few sentences for what's been brought out here. I didn't say the situation was good. I said there's a problem, but we're gradually solving them. One of the things we need to do is fill in the courts and bring in the presidents, because it's going to be one of the elements that will improve the situation. The situation has improved on the urgency, including the president's election. When we first received presidents as the first among the equal ones to worry little about the courts, more control over the courts that were disbanded and the results were relatively better. As for this direct call, I have to say that I know the work I do, my portfolio, and I mean properly done, and by yesterday he was the minister of justice of Austria, and today, the chairman of the European Union, and they estimated that we did more than they expected. I've visited other countries, and it's been established. There is one problem where we can agree, the human rights situation in the judiciary is not clear, but I also have to say to those who criticise that the courts have been ruined for a little longer, so that applies to all those chosen as elected. We're starting to do something to fix the situation as much as we can, and in these elections, we've done it. Here, I see how these elections are going, the growing number of candidates is being challenged, which means that the valid criteria the Council made are still giving some results. I hope that when it's cleaned up, the condition will certainly be better. I want to say one more thing, that this opportunity has not been challenged by a large number of candidates, but I haven't heard any serious remarks about those candidates who have been challenged. For these reasons, I ask that the elections be carried out, because I say it is one of the goals that we have all the presidents who will take care of the courts, because their responsibility is for the situation in the courts. If the courts don't work, then let's call the presidents to account. On the other hand, make sure that certain procedures are conducted, but the issue of corruption is the issue of the work of other authorities, not this ministry. It's the police and the prosecution. There's a number of procedures, you know there's a number of them, and it's not a very small number. We also conduct certain procedures at the Personal Council, for impeccableness, means safe-working and unprofessional work. Unfortunately, it is one of the problems of the Supreme Court, which so far, according to all the data I have, both by the Supervisory Board that have initiated the proceedings and by this ministry, and yet no proposal has been put in place to resolve. It's that narrow throat that needs to be solved. I'm just starting the procedure, I'm saying, it's done, because the judges have started to work much more discipline. I'll tell you right now, old cases say the number's halved by 50%. The craft of the object is reduced, looking at the time period. What's most important, the large number of convictions that have been done for several years, the verdicts haven't been done, and so there's been an obsolescence of crimes, and there's no more going on today, because in each of those cases, since we're getting reports, the proceedings are being initiated. So we're trying to do everything besides these questions that are related to the legislative framework, and we're trying to do this. I think with your help and easy choice of candidates, we'll be able to achieve better results on this plan. I expect the next day, if tomorrow's vote day, to make a choice, so that the courts can really work more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-28-0.u24572	Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Since we have carried out a single search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions, the contested proposals, Article 179(4). Rules of Procedure, and then on all other undeniable proposals in general. We're done with today's work. Resume session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
