ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-20-0.u26224	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only chance I have of answering today's session, so I'm taking that opportunity. It is unacceptable for the minister to find himself in the territory of a municipality without informing the president of the municipality. Today Minister Naumov is in Kostolc, and the president of the municipality has no idea. It is not good for political life in Serbia. It's not good to go to a man's house, not inform the host of it. The host is the president of the municipality that was elected by the citizens and I am taking this opportunity to express a protest for such behaviour by any minister, and this one at the time of Minister Naumov who did not inform the president of the Municipality of Pogorec about it, and is walking in the territory of the municipality, where the citizens of Serbia, or the citizens of Pozarec, chose the president. I want to protest publicly, not individually, that the citizens of Serbia know that any minister should not behave in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-04-20-0.u26225	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. This is in the spirit of everything we've talked about in the last few days. Since there are no more reported for this item of the agenda, do you want someone who has not used their rights under Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, I ask one more time whether the motionary wants the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda on the basis of Article 85(3), honourable Members of the People's Parliament have held a debate on all points of the agenda. I hereby set Thursday's Rules of Procedure, April 20th, 2006 at 11.53 p.m., so immediately, as a day for voting on all agenda points of the 3rd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Regular Session in 2006. Please begin by establishing whether there are enough MPs to start the vote, so let's determine the quorum. The application of the electronic system has shown that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that we can approach the vote. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Churches and Religious Communities Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the bill of law on churches and religious communities to the vote, in principle. For 119 against three, six out of 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by the MPs: Milovan Radovanović, Article 1; Tomislav Penezić, Article 5; Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Article 24 and Article 29; Aleksandar Djordjevic, Article 34; Miroslava Gusic, Article 34 and Aleksandar Lazarevic, Article 43, as well as the amendment of the Committee on European Integration, to the title above Articles 3; to the title above Articles 4 and 4; to Articles 6, 8 and 9; to the title above Articles 10 and 10; to Article 17; to Article 19; to Articles 19; to Articles 20 and 21; to Articles 22 and 22 and Articles 22; to Articles 25, 33, 34, 35 and 44. Also, I remind you that the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic, during the search of the Bill's proposal, in particular, withdrew the amendments to Articles 1 and 19, and that the amendments were withdrawn by written amendment by MPs Aleksandar Lazarevic to Articles 29 and 34 and to the title above Articles 44 and 44 and Rajko Baralic, to Article 44. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 114, 12 out of 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 107, 20 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament to Natasa Jovanovic, the Proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 112, 15 of the 128 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 109, 17 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 110, 17 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 108, there were no 18 votes, of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 108, 19 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 107, no vote of 20, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 104, 22 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. During the review of the draft law in particular, the Proposer's representative adopted this amendment. The Committee on European Integration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 113, three abstentions, not 13 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 108, there were no 18 votes, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 108, there were no 18 votes, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 108, there were no 18 votes, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 105, 22 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic and together by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 104, there was no vote of 23, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Under the name of Chapter 2 above the 18th Amendment, MP Zoran Krasic submitted. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, 26 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 19th amendment. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, 21 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 22, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted the 20th amendment together. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 105, 21 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 107, it did not vote 19 out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic together submitted the 21st Amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 105, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, it did not vote 28 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 105, 20 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 108, there were no 18 votes, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 22, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Veselinović. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 24 of the 129 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 105, it did not vote 24 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 22, out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 104, he did not vote 21 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 106, 19 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 101, 25 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 104, there was no vote of 23, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 37th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 104, he did not vote 21 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Four, against 107, were not voted 18 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 100, 27 of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic and Stanisa Stevanovic put together the title above Articles 44 and 44 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the European Integration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 97, it did not vote 26 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 105, he did not vote 21 out of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on European Integration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 107, no vote of 20, of 129 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the bill of law on churches and religious communities in general. For 120, against four, five of the 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on churches and religious communities. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act, in principle. For 123, against one, the abstention of one, was not voted by three, of 128 members of parliament. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, it was not 13 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, it did not vote 12 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No 11 votes against 116, out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, it was not 13 out of 127 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act, in general. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Telecommunications Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT SERVICES OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND ORGANISATION OF THE OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL OBJECTIVES FOR 2002, 2003. And 2004. THE year since the National Assembly conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the implementation of the public procurement procedure for the external audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the organisation of compulsory social security for 2002, 2003 and 2004 in general. For 124, three of the 127 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to implement the public procurement process for external audits of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the organisation of compulsory social security for 2002, 2003 and 2004. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE ORGANISATION OF THE COMMUNICATION SOCIAL ASSESSMENT FOR 2005 THE year since the National Assembly conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the implementation of the public procurement procedure for the external audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the organisation of compulsory social security for 2005, as a whole. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to implement the public procurement process for the external audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the organisation of compulsory social security for 2005. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 127 MPs. The National Assembly adopted this motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Let me inform you that all of you, as well as colleagues who are not present at the moment, but who participated in the work, have contributed to the adoption of 20 laws for these three sessions, some of which are extremely important to our citizens, and at the same time I know that you are tired, some have worked last night until 12:00, but the holidays will be only partially. I will schedule a session on April 30th because of the legal deadlines for May 8, and in the meantime, how much you manage to rest for those who celebrate the Easter holidays, as well as for the citizens I wish for you and for my own happy Easter, traditionally: Christ Easter.
