ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-27-0.u24514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, first of all, to welcome you to the First Regular Meeting this year. I am opening the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 62 MPs. Before we move to the agenda, let me pay tribute to the death of former President of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, on the basis of a proposal from the Socialist Party of Serbia. I invite you to pay tribute to Slobodan Milosevic for a minute of silence. Praise him. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Given that 62 have been reported for today's session, I find that there is not enough number to begin the session of the Assembly and corresponding to Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm postponing the session in one hour. [[After break – 11.35.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to continue our work after the break. We continue the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. I repeat that on the basis of official records, we now have 188 members of the national parliament present in the Serbian Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. Since we have a sufficient number of MPs present to continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session, I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 112 MPs. I'd like to inform you that we don't have any reports that he's been prevented, they're all here. According to Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Monday, March 20, 2006, and postponed for Monday, March 27, 2006, due to demands by the SPS parliamentary group on the death of the SPS president. You have accepted the resignation of Goran Ilic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88, paragraph 2 and Article 2 and Article 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the term of office of MP Goran Ilic, the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, The Law on the selection of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that it ceased its mandate before the time of election of MP Goran Ilic, elected from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's election list. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-27-0.u24516	I hope, Mr. Angelkovic, that the quorum has been established. The quorum was found before you entered. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as you know, the SPS asked the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the presidents of the parliamentary groups to begin the first session of the First Regular Session today, on March 27th, at 10.00 p.m., with a moment of silence from the post office recently deceased president of the SPS and former president of the Republic of Serbia and the SR of Yugoslavia Slobodan Milosevic. I am sorry, and we all regret that this morning at 10.00 p.m., when the first session of the First Regular Session was due to begin, the other MPs were not present. Also, we want to express the strongest protest, because RTS did not show the SPS MPs at all in direct transmission, but instead showed an empty room. We want and ask the relevant authorities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to establish responsibility, to submit a report to the Assembly by the Director of RTS, which is why it is so and to punish the responsible persons. Also, as you know, given that in the direct transfer of Serbian citizens it was not possible to see MPs who wanted to pay tribute to the SPS president and former SR President Yugoslavia and Serbia, I propose and ask the chairman to pay our respects to the late Slobodan Milosevic for a minute of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2006-03-27-0.u24517	I would like a moment of silence for the murdered SPS president, and former Serbian-Yugoslavija President Slobodan Milosevic. Praise him. I'm taking a break by 10.00 tomorrow, and in the meantime, RIK carries out a verification of a new mandate in the Serbian Parliament.
